ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u1	Borist has a letter from the Environment and Resource Minister where request is made in order to provide a written answer for the requested request. 1417, about the cost of the Ministry to written answers to queries, from Bruntur the son of Níelsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u2	A respectable president. In the morning newspaper today, you can read a story that really makes me think. It shows that the largest bookbook chain in the country, Penn Eymundsson, has taken all of the new books from sales to reassigned them. This will be without words and without any warnings. Jakob Ásgeirsson, a publisher and owner of Uglu, says that Eymundsson does this to punish himself for having his books read as audio books and streaming them for listening online. This has been done in many editions, a respectable president, recently. The demand seems great for consumers, and people listen to audio books, and I'm naturally among them, with very poor eyesight, but the same morning news shows that the director of Eymundsson rejects this explanation. But one thing about it. It is very serious if the market manager is to be able to be suitable for the books it has prepared for sale. Book publishing is a very important part of the Constitution of freedom of expression in this country, as well as the role of books in cultural and national debates. Companies who are allowed to enjoy the market should have community duties. That's no way to attack a small version that's done very well and even done very well. published many of the pearls of literature in recent years. Besides this, if it is true, it is unacceptable to try to regulate the access of consumer consumers to certain products, in this case, sound books per flow on the Internet. As lawgiver here at the High Council, we are required to keep a close eye on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u3	A respectable president. During the past year, and especially in the last days, much has been discussed with regard to the various meeting laws between the state and the community, perhaps most likely between the state and the capital city of Reykjavík. I'm just going to enter one of the larger meeting laws, which are called the capital treaty, which is an enormously important covenant: to achieve it. But that may be the key, if he succeeds. It is important for all to respect that agreement, and it is not a policy, so the state puts in capital capitals and only the organizational projects that are appropriate for the capital itself. So I wanted to emphasize that in the agreement it is clearly stated that both parties have to maintain the agreement and that it is not going to work. There's a lot of good things in this deal, and the lights control are in place, and they're in first place. Let's start learning about it in this month each step of the week. It may be difficult to start a major project that has been waiting a long time. One good thing about the capital contract is that a ten - year construction stop here in the capital city was broken with him. However, this has not been formally broken, since there has been yet to be yet another matter of planning between Bhuggway and Smokejanes Railway, the organizational affairs regarding the Eaglenes Way have not been completed, and there has been yet another committee to set up on the Sunway and so forth. I just wanted to emphasize that in order for this agreement to be realized, all parties must strive to put their entire agreement and stick to their commitments in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u4	A respectable president. In the last few weeks, a small number of Covid-19 infections have been identified, and of course, we are all grateful to our experts for our success and are to be grateful to the public, who worked very hard to control the outbreak. Of course, these measures and restrictions were necessary. The greatest restrictions have now been removed, but some remain, including the infectious barber. In other circumstances, such government apes that collect information on individual travel would have been a major means of privacy and would have raised a great deal of discussion. However, they showed responsibility and trust, while about a third of the people attended this app, which was presented as a temporary arrangement. In doing so, the nation relieved the work of an infectious group of psychiatrists and State Marshals. Already the country is already open, however, tourists will have a screening, which, of course, is vital and essential, but they will also be encouraged to attend this app that would be the result of their movement here. Similarly, the nation is encouraged to keep on using the app. This is where I feel I have to stop for a second. I remind you that the limitations of the rights of people and the intervention of their personal lives need to be reasoned and should be approached as an aberration. Is it really necessary for governments to use a tracking program when the situation is that the virus is low or absent in the community? So, then, have we not begun to approach basic rights, such as a measure of privacy? I feel like the conversation's missing here. Should the government not share the responsibility of the common people? Despite double consent, the user needs to accept the app and then agree to use the information, it remains after the procedure is directly designed to gather information about people to deliver them to the government. While the app is on the phone, people's trips are damp. [[The president calls.]] In view of this, I ask: Should the government not bring up a conversation about when they basically make a living on this arrangement?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u5	Mr. President. Bit for a bite, a slice of a slice, so that the more part in Reykjavík has worked against Reykjavík's airport in the Watermur for the past 20 to 25 years. Despite an agreement made in November between the Department of Transport for the State and the city of Reykjavík to continue looking at the possibility of building an airport in the Washing Land, where the city authorities promised not to go against the airport activities while, planning the same city authorities the road that will be passed through a cloud at the airport. It's a terrible work, isn't it? The pool in the Watermelon serves as an important center of national flight, such as the location and setting of the airport matter. More important, though, is the airport's role as the center of a medical flight in the country. Weather-based research has to be started on the effectiveness of the new Dammunian buildings and new settlements in the Saviour Lander and will encourage transport ministers to promote such research. I challenge more parts of Reykjavík, members of Congress, transport minister and government to ensure the integrity of the airport. I also challenge the mayor of Reykjavík to accept his responsibility as the capital of all the people of the country. It must be the common interests of all, state, and community, to ensure safe transportation to the capital, to increase freedom of movement, while always ensuring the right of the Icelanders to the best health care available at any time. Reykjavíkurburg is failing its role as the capital of the country when the declared objective of the city's government is to move our national airport to the Watermur with such cover, to get the airport to cat nose, without another equally convenient option to use. In March 2013, just before the elections, the agreement on land sale under the Watermight Emergency Course is a chapter of itself. I've been talking about this matter for a long time. Here is the so - called salama methodology used by Reykjavíkurburg; a piece for a piece. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u6	A respectable president. Sadly, in recent decades, we have not been able to build up properly in the capital area. Only 16% of the new transport workers have worked out in the capital area where 70% of the population lives. We hope to see the change in time in these matters. In September, that's it. was signed for a landmark meeting on ambitious development of transport and public transport in the capital area. This was an agreement made between the transport ministers and the rural groups in the capital area. The objective of the agreement was to promote legal, efficient, efficient, and safe transport in the capital area with the same structure for all transport. The search for a targeted distribution of traffic burden should be done, adding the utilisation of infrastructure. At the same time, it will help the government's climate targets on sustainable urban carbon sharing are achieved by the growth of public transport, transport sharing economy, and improved infrastructure for other environmental transport practices, as well as by promoting changing tourism and energy exchanges. At the same time, increasing traffic security is important, and it is part of our objective to reduce road accidents dramatically. Of course, the key point is to improve traffic flow here in the capital area. It is also important that the inhabitants have the real freedom to choose transportation. Therefore, while we must, of course, be sure to make improvements in the roots, we must ensure safe and practical ways to walk and cycle. More important, we need a powerful public transportation known as the city line on this project. Civil line is no key to all the problems we face in transportation, but it is and must always be part of the solution. Therefore, it is happy that we will soon replace this transport plan and plan for a society that will live up to the activities established in this capital contract. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u7	A respectable president. Today, Houston, Texas George Floyd, will be buried as of June 25th. A police officer was executed without a trial and fixed in broad daylight on suspicion that he may have prescribed a $20 bill. He was unarmed and handcuffed, lying defenseless in the street while his life was crushed. Roadfarers tried to intervene, but things did not happen. The victim tried to pray for mercy in vain in words that have gone up like fires about the world: I can't break it. - I can't breathe. Worldwide, representatives of governments and all kinds of organizations have expressed horror over this barbaric event that sheds light on the ill effects of racism. Among the officials who have expressed themselves are Angela Merkel, Emmanuel Macron, and Boris Johnson. It is also good to remember how Justin Trudeau expressed himself asking about his evaluation of President Trumpur's progress, with long, meaningful silence. Icelandic authorities have also spoken in silence about these dramatic events in the United States, but that silence has not been a matter of special content or very meaningful content but of silence. Iceland has a voice international. There are other nations, expecting them to represent human kindness, equality, and peaceful solutions. And as a century of scandal and grief spread throughout the world because of the violence of the U.S. plaguing police, it is more superstitious to say that no cough or stealing is heard from the Icelandic government. [[The president calls.]] There must be some limit to what people are prepared to do. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u8	A respectable president. The Justice Department has recently ruled that the public collectrs of small loans for small loans broke the bill and sent a hearing to the attorney who is the owner of a public body for an illegal collection. On the Navitors Association's home page, borrowers who borrowed money from small loans until June last year may have raised large sums of money. They may thus have the right to reimburse a small loan company. If that is the case, people should not pay another cent until the demands can be proved by the demands. People are encouraged to ask for correction. Then, in May, the consumer Commission now confirmed that Icelandic law on loans and even if registered in Denmark. On the Web site of the Navigator Association, a small - loan company is now serving a police investigation in Denmark for suspicion of money theft and has dropped the loan operation and referred to public collections have given creditors comments. How is it that we here at the General Assembly allow such illegal collects and without supervision that small loan companies have used to hook up poor people? The general body seems to have one job collecting illegal loans and, in most cases, get away with it because it belongs to lawyers and does not depend on UNECE surveillance and therefore does not need permission to collect. This act is made by means of an exception from the collection that we here, the lawgiver, the General, cannot justify at all, and is a disgrace to us. Or, as it puts it, on the Nite Owl Web site, with the permission of a president: The results of these two cases clearly show that collected activities thrive without actual supervision and repair. This is a gross violation of consumer rights, and the consumer organization has repeatedly pointed to these offenders in the law. Now the lawgiver has to pull up his pants. Shall we? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u9	Mr. President. 1,114 isn't a super-high figure. 1,140 not either. Each person speaks of himself is, for example, just over a number of people living in the West But 1,114 and 1,140 are not just numbers. This is the number of people waiting for the lens surgery in Iceland and after replacement operations. People who suffer from pain in their homes, suffer from pain all 24 hours a day, are social restraints, and are not allowed to suffer from their own ills. Similarly, the number 62 is not very high, but 62 women are waiting for partially or completely for cancer. These figures, Mr. President, are in October. They've probably increased now in the Covid situation. But the worst part is, these numbers are man-made. These lists can be overcome. The lives of these people, the individuals involved, can be improved and even increased by attacking the problem. But this is not possible because of political religious teachings. You can't, because you can't shop with individuals and companies who can do these things because they can only make money on it. During this, the number of men who make the list of events will be extended. Mr. President. I hope to the highest. A health minister sleeps well because the people on the list do not.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u10	Mr. President. The majority of the management and monitoring committees felt that it was unnecessary to complete the initiative consideration of a suitable sea emissary for the Samaritan situation. To stop an examination is not surprising for these three political groups. What is serious, however, is how the greater part manipulates its role in the way that they feel it is enough to throw in one account to stop a matter and prevent further coverage. With this kind of payment, which will eventually come to the head of the council, the more part is offered for hiding and making the case a big matter for itself, for it is no small matter to drag my teeth out of the follow-up of the General Assembly, where I look at them. This involves a great deal of political responsibility. That is incorrigibly and unannounced. We have many experiences on the part of the government that if they don't sit on reports themselves, they're simply against the reporting requests we've submitted at the council, such as comparing Samhera's contracts for hunting warrants in Namibia with government payments. It noticed how strongly the independent party was opposed. Furthermore, the inquiry of members of Congress is minimized. There are longer answers, but there are several examples in the history of the council. And now, to decommission the WHO surveillance role. What will it be like, Mr. President, when further initiative checks are made, to do more things in this way to prevent payment and prevent cases from being adequately treated? Is this really to be an example here at the High Council, no matter what the case? Of course, we know that this is a very sensitive matter for the government, for the Group, for the Fishing System and for the Special Opportunities underneath. But far from then on, these devices are unsurpassed and certainly not a part of the multisuccess of the Aeglebris. And this is an offer of a left-green, independent party and a forwarding party. Their legacy will be that they are blocking all the steps that the smaller part has tried to take in its own role, especially when things have been delicate, political delicate, and we have, unfortunately, Mr. President, seen this before. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u11	Mr. President. Once again, I want to make innovation and evolution into publicity. It's better than I can tell you, professional college ratings over the summer are bad, and many innovations and procrastinators have problems handling important projects due to lack of funds. On the basis of additional financial resources that were donated to the pandemic of Covid-19 and limited employment opportunities during the summer season, the Grand Prix was distributed to students on Friday. A total of 360 million. K. to 284 projects for 426 students. However, application was 1,401 students and a lot more projects. A total of 3,980 persons were applied for the month, but 1,200 were distributed. The success rate was 30%, so it is obvious that the need is far greater than could be done. A free passage across assignment shows that at least two - thirds of them carried out projects at institutions and schools funded by states or rural groups. A lot of less activities were covered by companies. All of this shows that there is still an urgent need to meet innovation and development, especially those with sceptre companies, at the same time caring for the needs of university students for jobs qualified to qualify for them and to provide valuable experience and training. There's two birds that can be hit in one strike. So I would like to challenge the Council to respond by immediately giving at least 250 million. K. to the student's New World Fund in order to give more strength. We're in the palm of this office. We're in the middle of the budget. [[The president calls.]] Applications are available as well as assessments of these applications. The distribution of rapid and effective walking and success to innovation in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u12	A respectable president. Following is a vote for defense against the interests of the highest government officials. There are progressive steps and many good things to be found on the bill, but there is no independent surveillance of the rules. Not enough of this, there is absolutely no monitoring that Ministers follow the rules on the keeping of their interests. Why not? The most clear answers I've heard are that the greater part of independent surveillance, now or head supervision, was not achieved with regard to the way the Ministers protect their defenses against conflicting interests. However, the majority met together for a weekend when he declared that it was pointless to continue to explore the highest interests. A seafaring and agricultural minister, Kristján Þór, son of Júlíusson, because of his connection with the marine export company, Samherja. This was the case with solidarity in the greater part. This policy means that the minister who said at an open meeting with an administration and monitoring committee that he had nothing to hide in this case may hide behind the fact that the majority of the committee decided that nothing is to be found, nothing to see here as they say. So the majority study themselves and find that there is nothing wrong with the administration of their minister. Of course, that is not a very credible conclusion; it must be said at the present time. This procedure also sets a dangerous example for the cloudless rights of the smaller section to monitor the procedures and duties of a minister who sits just under the cover of the greater part. The most direct consideration would have been for the majority of the cases to be resolved by a report that after completing data collection and visitors could be discussed in the Senate Hall, the majority of which have no less to hide than to discuss this important matter in the conference hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u13	Mr. President. I guess that's about how I feel about that. Half of Icelandic land care systems are evaluated in poor ecological conditions. These systems are highly unstable in their carbon habitats, and there will also be high emissions of greenhouse gases from leaked ecosystems. It is estimated that some 8 million tons of carbon dioxide are released from the most advanced wetlands each year, less known or completely destroyed. In order to meet the commitments established by the government through the EU and Norway's agreement on common targets for less emissions from countries by 2030, and those within the Paris Convention, reliable information about emissions is needed. So is the government's 2040 carbon share targets. In the fall of the year, an EU advisory team came here to work with us on the assessment of emissions and binding within a so-called agricultural phase. The report stated that more detailed information on emissions from countries is one of two key elements that Iceland needs to add to the essential carbon accounting. That is why a five - year basic test project has to be set up. That's a project that's a cooperation project on land healing, the National Farmer University of Iceland and the Forest. Governments need special funding, and the estimated budget is about 100 billion. K. In a year for five years. This task, Mr. President, does not tolerate a significant delay, but it is a common challenge to all classes in the Generals to ensure the best future for people in these matters, and such serious matters require great ambition.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u14	A respectable president. There are a number of major issues that concern us these days, and I'm just a little worried because what may be the biggest case we've heard today wasn't exactly in the news. One of the big news is a statement from Ragnar Þór Ingólfsson, president of the VR. He says, with President's permission: In view of the government's declarations regarding the nurse's struggle that all work is under the guidance of the contracts [...]. The VR management of all nurse and class struggles does not require that others receive it as well or less than we were; rather, we rejoice if others achieve better results that we can so be guided by the next contracts. You see, it is a little interesting that the policy of government is exactly the life agreement against classes that could not be negotiated there. It also says in the declaration, by permission of the president: Therefore, the only thing that really threatens the lifetime document is the government itself. It does not stand a stone when it comes to the fulfillment of promises, and it has most of the time, and the labor movement is about to renegotiate and demand the same government for the same things that were agreed on. So later it says: "There's not much that can stop the contracts from dropping out in the fall. It's not a little story. It's a big story. It is a great deal of serious concern if the agreements signed in the lifetime agreements to which governments promised access and that treaties that are not part of the agreements are held that other professions are to follow those criteria. [[The president calls.]] Governments are no longer able to hide behind a yoke that they themselves have made without purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u15	Mr. President. The president of the National Association of Police Police in the press this morning is quoted as saying that police negotiations with the Icelandic state are going very slowly and actually nothing. He says that the talks are really in a state of great importance, and he adds that police officers'patience is failing. The report also shows that one of the reasons why police authorities are not allowed to settle books from their last agreements. To form a book on the so - called arms load of policemen that they get no solution in spite of increasing criminal activity, police officials can expect to be expected at any time, even on their own, to have to deal with stringent criminals, as has in fact repeatedly been shown in state police reports on the years of increased toughness in many offense groups. Despite being part of a contract with police officers, the government has not been able to keep up with this accounting. Much of this seems to be the case. In what position are police officers who have no right to strike and who are unable to use any means to get their terms corrected? In effect, they must let their paramours and paraphernalia come over them and hope for good weather. Mr. President. The fact is, since they gave up the strike rights against their having fixed standards, the ideal officers have gradually shifted far from a similar class. I gave a bill in the fall to restore the strike rights to the police. Many members of this hall supported a comparable bill some years ago, shortly after collapse, speaking to them here from this chair, members of the council who are still sitting here, some of whom are now in charge. Where is their support of the police now?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u16	A respectable president. Now a cover for the transport process. It has many major and important projects that are likely to create new opportunities in Icelandic society and contribute to all creation. This includes the transport agreement of the capital area, which receives confirmation here at the General Assembly when a transport programme will be adopted with each budget and with a approval of the authority to establish the official transport construction community in the capital area. of that bill is on the program at General Assembly today. The major breakthrough in the Treaty is that it unites the state, and six rural areas in the capital area for the whole population in the capital area, regardless of the way they choose. It is not only an agreement on planning but also about funding, construction of workers, and public transportation to 15 years of age. The community's cooperation in planning traffic through the whole area is a huge step, and the state's involvement in driving and flying zones, through ports and tracks, including while linking with the Dizziness Course, it is assumed that the proposals for her bed are in place at the end of summer. The transport Treaty expects significant implementations in the construction of all transports in the capital area, in the footways, in the special areas of priority traffic, walking and cycle paths, as well as traffic control efforts. Dialysis work on light management has begun, but improved traffic control can significantly affect traffic flow. The purpose of the transport covenant is to speed up construction in the capital area. The updated procedure of the transport Convention will continue to be part of a transport programme, thus ensuring the implementation of the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] The respect of all the parties in the agreement and the integrity of work to its advancement is such a key to success.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u17	Mr. President. The head of the Independence Party, the highest. The secretary of finance and economics prevented the Þorvaldur of Gylfason, who has established a good reputation as an international economist, from getting a job he had offered. The head of the Independence Party, the highest. Financial and economic ministers, used themselves, and used their positions to punish Þorvaldur Gylfason for expressing themselves on national matters by speaking and writing. V.E.G. Minister's office is represented by the Generals. The Synod can never agree, nor should it be approved that a minister employs himself in this way. [[The president calls.]] I expect his command and monitoring committee to handle this case at a meeting. [[The president calls.]] [[Open the door, hear the sound.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u18	The President has certain doubts about the nature of this discussion under President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u19	V.E.G. President. We in the Middle East will be sitting by in this case, since the number of employees in the Educator Fund has not yet been given an explanation for the number of workers. It is also special that other institutions are expected to increase, but their number of employees is not expected at the same time. In view of this, it would be preferable to explain more about the cost. Finally, the role of the Agency must be clarified. The question of why a new fund is being created is still unknown, rather than simply fixing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u20	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to be here today and to vote on this landmark bill. This has been a long wait. We are making a marvelous system change with the best interests of students in mind. The committee that's covered the case, huh? A top-of-the-art Board of Education has worked very well together. The Ministry has helped and answered all our questions, and many have produced a memo and a meeting with the committee. So I believe that the matter is very well prepared, that all questions have been answered that can be answered in the light of the uncertainty that exists today. I'll say yes. Thank you for your job well done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u21	A respectable president. We support the matter, as well as all the proposed changes. I would like to thank the greater part for taking into account comments to 12. ... abouttheexpansion of the government tax manager's information. That discussion took place at 2nd. and is fine that the law is changed in the way that the greater part suggests. However, I cannot help but criticize the fact that in the General and Education Committee, 26 par. Hardly present. The majority came to a conclusion before the meeting, so the committee did not all discuss it, which I would otherwise have considered better. Accordingly, the majority did not decide to remove Article 26. and I refer to 2nd. to further explain. Therefore again I have made the decree to put away the law. I'm finally saying that while there are various defects on this bill, in my opinion and many others, especially that I still don't know how to secure the promotion of students, this is a very positive change, and I'm supporting the whole case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u22	A respectable president. The union supports this situation, and this is a progressive step for most of the country's homes, for which it is a very important matter of interest. However, I'd like to say that we'd have chosen to have been better equipped for alimony, that the forwards had been safely settled there, so that the forward is guaranteed. And we might as well have liked to see our responsibilities fail to pay our bills. Still, we support the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u23	A respectable president. I agree with what's been presented here is taking positive steps. There's a lot of good things in this bill. But like the others in my section, I would have liked to see that the steps had been fixed, that we had approached the bill from the position we are today as a society with the political vision of betting definitively on education, research, innovation, and as a result of a student's position. To this end, the Reference School gave a direct scholarship to students to reach the goal that students can survive the study, but also to send them a political message that education is part of the restoration process.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u24	A respectable president. These are long-term timely improvements in student loan laws, a full reexamination that has long been waiting for. At the same time, however, a new overall review is offered. This will make a big difference in reevaluating the progress criteria of students. Today, there are half the minimum, 185,000 dollars. for single students, who cannot live on. So let's not forget that we are agreeing to these laws, in view of the fact that about 40% of students are looking for unemployment during the summer. Government provisions to meet this challenge are designed for two months'work when the summer is three months. It must be fixed immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u25	Mr. President. I'm celebrating the bill we're about to agree with today. It's been a long time, a long time ago, and a long time ago laid out here, some years ago, where an attempt was made to face what has been called repeatedly, i.e. To create a better system than is available today. That's what I think we're doing here. It'll be revised in three years I think it's important. When we are making big changes in our system, we can always think of things that are worth considering not so much of our time. But the bill's good, and I think we'll be able to control the major issues here that have been criticized. I do not agree that questions have not been answered. However, it may well be that we do not like the answers. So, there's a whole different arm again. The cost we find very much is at stake. We've suggested that all the employees assigned, not be hired on one board, but slowly to see what comes out of the wind and how many come in to take advantage of the new fund as it's put in place. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's a good move. It's a long time for a bill like this to become a law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u26	A respectable president. I just wanted to make it right, because here's a good deal on the tour that the government has been running on its policy list, the energy exchange of cars, and the loading equipment at an apartment building. It was noted in the Committee that at the end of the New Year's Day, a valuable supplement tax was dropped from equipment and equipment for such projects, and the Covid proposal of the government was also reduced the value of home employment tax. The case is very good and I will vote for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u27	V.E.G. President. I believe, and the Party of the Central Party, that there is still much to be said about various aspects of the matter, including the possibility of altering costs, securing the rights of all landlords and the possibility of ensuring homeowners the support for loading equipment. There are also subtle details in the bill that could have been clarified. As a result, we members of the Central Party are unable to support the issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u28	A respectable president. I took a little thought in wording about motorists'issues in multigained houses. I believe and trust that when a battery of trucks is set up in multigalactic buildings, they also work for motor functions. On that basis, I say yes to this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u29	President. We now vote on defenses against the interests of the highest government officials. The matter is progress and there are many good things to be found in this bill, but there is no independent surveillance of the rules and not enough to be followed, and there is no exactly no monitoring that Ministers follow the rules on the keeping of their interests. Why not? The most clear answer I have heard is that the greater part of independent surveillance, now or head supervision, was not achieved with regard to the way the Ministers protect their defenses against conflicting interests. However, the majority met together for a weekend when he declared that it would be pointless to continue to explore the highest interests. A seafaring and agricultural minister, Kristján Þór, son of Júlíusson, because of his connection with the marine export company, Samherja. This was the case with solidarity in the greater part. A respectable president. The maintenance and supervision of an individual is an important prerequisite for trust. I hope, therefore, that these laws will be strengthened before long.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u30	A respectable president. There is an increasing limit to the interests of the chief rulers. Here, for example. For example, in a town that is important to making decisions within the administration, contact the government with the Bibist, the so - called interests of interest, is clear and clear. With regard to everything that turns around, however, things are more free of charge. What turns on the politicians themselves and their closest fellow workers who are far more uncontaminated. There is no independent surveillance of the groups and their interest registration, and there is no limit to the possibility of helpers'ability to function directly in the work of interests despite being the group that the law deals with which it is most likely to choose the future after the official jobs. One in every eight helpers to this point has chosen to progress as the next step following the auxiliary work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u31	Mr. President. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. The management and monitoring committee for the completion of this important issue, which includes a very important step towards confidence in the defense against interest issues. In view of the discussion that has taken place on this matter, I'd like to say that increasing transparency is the most important monitoring of democratic elected representatives. The bill certainly includes increased transparency on the appeal of politicians and the highest authority of the European Commission. This will include increased monitoring of their activities at the time of introduction of innovations, such as registration of relationships with interest prices, as well as to ensure that this increased transparency, which is so important in building trust. This bill, if it is the law that I truly hope for, is a great step toward trusting in politics and government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u32	A respectable president. The general body and the government desperately need the public's trust in them to increase or be restored, let's say. We've got some effort that way, but only half the way out. With the confidence that your mind has half a way in addition to this bill, we support it, but it could have been done much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u33	A respectable president. I like everyone else celebrating this bill. I think it's necessary, and that's certainly a good goal. The objective is to strengthen confidence in politics and politics. However, I am concerned that the decision will not be to build confidence in politics and government. A rule such as this will never fully accomplish its purpose when the monitoring factor is missing. That is, in effect, the conclusion of this case. The checkpoint is missing, at least. So weak that it is in itself to weaken the confidence we intend to create.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u34	A respectable president. That's a big step we're taking here with the approval of this bill, as shown in almost all the reports to which it was returned. The management and monitoring committee, in the words of the visitors and the review of the Committee in general. I've found it interesting to monitor the representatives of my section in this case that there's something tricky here, it's not quite good enough, and to put this in touch with I don't know why not all the suggestions were made. represent the memory of the part into a final bill as normal. A regular quote from my partner Megas has come up to my head: a story flies from sight / as the flight leg increases in volume. We are here taking an enormous step to which everyone agrees. I think, chief. President, that we should look to that, but not to see if we all got to have everything we wanted.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u35	V.E.G. President. The person standing here was aware of this matter between 1 and 2rd. but is now unreservedly involved in the case. paritaprevir Oleaf the Ólafur of Ísleifsson. The matter was changed in terms of transmissible infectious measures, suggesting that the activity of disease prevention and isolation centres be clearly established. It was also suggested that in these cases of serious infectious diseases, unusual or unexplained trauma, the prescribing information of the Food Institute should be further explained or suspected. So this is the best case as it is put forward today and I will vote with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u36	A respectable president. This is an important matter for a meeting that discusses the importance and priorities of health care. The matter, however, does have some consequences, but these matters were discussed at a Christian meeting in the fall. It is a guide for providing health care and decisions in that area. The values in the proposal are privacy, need, solidarity, and finally practicality and efficiency in a series of priorities. I want this vote thank you for the wide solid solidarity expressed in a committee study and thanking the welfare committee for the work. By our vote, we will ensure that values and priorities will be placed on the Icelandic health system, and this resolution by Generalis will be proposed regardless of the elections or changes in political landscapes. What a blessing it is for a health - care system!
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u37	V.E.G. President. With members of the Central Party, we will sit by in this case, since the wording change in the synonym did not go far enough in our opinion, considering that there is an indirect way in which private management in health care is being weighed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u38	A respectable president. What a joy it has been to work on this subject at the moment! The welfare committee. What a fine example of preparation and consideration has been in preparation, and why? A health minister and a health committee for the cooperation of the case. By the suggestion, we will bring together as a community the values we would like to have fundamentally the human rights to be enjoyed by health care. That guidance will guide the way to the future, establishing the core values that we as a nation can agree to maintain a high regard for health care in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u39	Mr. President. Many have been working hard on this matter with a good mind. So it was during last night that after the head of the committee opinion, the w. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, had repeatedly discussed the concept of heaven in his speech, asked questions. Birgir He's got Þórarinsson's bed. Whether the weekend would extend to an unborn child in the womb would be an authority. Responded to it. A member of the local body of elders, who had been defined as being an unborn child, would not have been the object of human immunity. Of that attitude, many words could be said, but I am content to say that I do not feel comfortable with it. A senator and others wrangled. Councilmen - [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u40	The president doesn't think it's appropriate. A senator makes such an announcement to another senator when he is making an account of his vote. In this case, members of the Parliament recognize their vote, but they do not use that opportunity to attack other members of the council who will not be able to speak after someone has made an account of his vote. As a result, those involved are dead in the discussion and must be put to rest without being able to hold a hand for their heads. The president asks why. A senator is to give up in this way on the position of other members of the body.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u41	Mr. President. I will not vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u42	Mr. President. Of course, I support the subject of this proposal and welcome a good discussion that took place in the conference hall on the subject a few weeks ago. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son. This material is called to us today and at all times, such as. This is important in such a week of health care, with thousands of professions and knowledge, attitudes similar to expectations and demand of the citizens growing, and more rapid as time goes by. The international trend and concentration are increasing in the face of the leading health - care providers in this country, and therefore this matter is also so timely that it applies to the general values, ethics, and moral standards at the same time that we maintain the demand for practicality and efficiency in all areas. This is a subject that cannot be handled once and for all. It's in the dough all the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u43	President. Just very short: This joke with the President, that the case can go through 3rd. If no one says anything, that's the rule. That's the rule that's always been. The president retorts unnecessaryly to a senator who is criticizing that he is taking over, according to Article 80. which he's never had, got into Covid and wants to hold on. We don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u44	This message is received. The President shall try to hold back his joy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u45	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the employment committee, a bill for the Power Fund. The committee has discussed the matter and has received a meeting with Ingvi Pá Pálsson from the Department of Professional Roads and Developments, the Valdimar Össurarson of Val energy ehf., Jón Ingimarsson of Land-Service, Jakob Björnsson from Energy Fund, the Trausti Baldursson of Iceland's Natural Institute of Nature, Lárus M.K. Ólafsson of Industrial Association and the Sigurður of Ingi Friðleifsson from Energy Fund. This committee received reviews and talks from the Department of Economics and Economic Affairs, National Civilization, National Reconnaissance, Industrial Congress and Val energy ehf. The bill is suggested to form a law on Energy Fund and to downgrade 8 grams. law on the Power Institute that covers the fund and its roles. At the same time, the role of Power Fund is changed to allow the fund to provide access to energy - related projects in line with the general government policies on energy, innovation, urbanisation and climate. Power Institute regulations, no. 400/2009, and about Energy Fund, No. 185/2016 will also be adjusted accordingly. One of the main changes is the changing role of Energy Fund which will no longer be determined to support projects that reduce fossil fuels use, but also projects that promote energy security and competitiveness in energy and energy related activities, in line with government emphasis and policy. The bill suggests that rather than a minister ship a three - man advisory committee, he appoints three individuals in the management board of the fund. Some discussions were made in the Committee on Command, and whether or not to require additional conditions, but now it is under the order of the advisory committee on the basis of the proper administrative and knowledge of the seminary, with reference to the provision of public funds. In this context, the majority of the objects want to point out that with a factor of 3. Regulation No. 185/2016, on Energy Fund, it is required that the advisory committee be obliged to seek the information of the Energy Agency or other experts as appropriate, before proposaling for a minister for strength or loan from the Energy Fund or subsidies of remuneration. At the same time, the Advisor Committee operates according to protocol No. 654, compare the advertisement of the Management News of 29 June 2016, but the rules are set on the basis of the above regulations. It says that those on the consulting committee should observe the rules for decision making and that assessments of inadequacy should take into account the regulations of the administrative body. The majority of the figures are, with reference to the fact that in this bill, there is no other requirement for a change in the direction of the directive, that changes are not needed and the rights of any other part involved in the understanding that in Regulation it remains a requirement for the management of the Commission or other experts in the development of the Council of Ministers. It is also clear that when it comes to a command in a administrative capacity, and in a similar way it is being taken into account that the terms of administrative law in evaluating the potential incompetent management and handling of matters. The bill assumes that energy funds will be funded by contributions from a government fund on the basis of each budget, as well as the interest revenues of the fund, as shown by Article 6. The bill. The review of The State's Accounting points out that according to this, the Power Fund A part of the State Department was regarded as having to make a special account that would be part of the A-part State account. It also calls to mind a review in a memo to the Committee that there is a potential for overlap in the laws on public finances. The Ministry of Economics agrees with the tips and points out that under government laws, the fund's management should neither be able to deliver money between years nor consider interest money to be in the interest of the fund. The majority agree with these views, but the importance of legalization is being maintained in accordance with official financial law and suggests changes. However, the majority consider it important to make a donation according to Article 6. it should be taken into account that interest revenues cannot be determined from the fund and that budgets will not be shifted from year to year. In view of this, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st The words and interest are found in the funds of the fund, as well as in Article 6. ... goout. 2. The expression "year - long " or" year " in the second verse of 1st. Section 8. ... goout. Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter, who was absent from the case, signed this opinion in line with 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under this opinion, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir's daughter, Nællur Friðbertsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Ólafur Is Ísleifsson, and Sigurður Páll, write to Jónsson. I would also like to request that the case be addressed to the professional committee between the 2nd and 3rd. Because of possible slight changes in the case I'd like to make a little better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u46	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you for your excellent review of the committee's opinion. This is a very interesting subject in many respects, and it is extremely important that energy funds are strengthened and strengthened, hopefully becoming the steps taken to do so and to facilitate their activities. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity, Mr. President, and call attention to the fact that I was actually sitting through telecommunications, so I was involved in the discussion and was involved in everything at the meeting. Even so, I must admit that there were two things I missed, and I wanted to discuss them briefly at the moment. An authority who has already requested the matter to be called in between 2 and 3. Somehow, I missed the discussion on the Committee that there was a very interesting tip from the Industrial Association that the Power Fund will be obliged to publish an annual report on its activities and to contribute support to projects. I know that the committee at the time was discussed and discussed with them in general, but I think that it's just a very good matter that transparency is increasing, that it is clear what the fund does at once. I wanted to call for a position. An authority with regard to this statement by the Society of industry and whether it would be reasonable to consider adding it further.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u47	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much for the tip. A senator on this show. This has become part of the policy and process, of the traceability and transparency and of the work being done by the fund, and I think I'm 100% sure it's at the Power Institute today. It is only good that such evidence comes from the Committee on the work done, financial services, and other activities, how capitalism is handled. So it is all toward transparency and traceability. I just agree with these views.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u48	Mr. President. Thank you. A prominent historian, the Njáll of Trausti Friðbertsson, is delighted to learn that he is willing to look at the matter between discussions. In this context, a similar comment from Landactivation was made regarding the very importance of monitoring the progress of projects and assessments of their effectiveness and the fact that all of the information on projects and traceability is well established. In fact, there was another interesting comment in the review of Land induction on the importance of a minister's having a more detailed authority on reimbursement on land - searching loans. You see, what's so interesting about Energy Fund, and so many other funds, it is that it strengthens so many different aspects of energy production, very often to reduce e.g. The use of oil must be our goal. However, it is very important that there are clear rules and clear lines of how it is done, and in fact, I think the fund was doing it very well up until now. Counts 'em out. One forebearer that there is no reason to consider this at the same time? This is almost the same as the industrial organization was pointing to.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u49	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this. That is exactly what we need to do between 2 and 3. Around, go a little bit better through the reviews of the Industrial Association and the Civilization. This is an amazing fund with a 50 - year - old story that has played a major role in energy exchange in Iceland and geo-gradification, and we need to do a little better with the factors involved in the two. I just take, as I said in the previous answer, under the viewpoint as a matter of course. A senator comes in, and I hope we can settle matters on the committee quickly and carefully with regard to their comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u50	Mr. President. Energy fund is a very important fund for the construction of energy wood in Iceland. The aims were for electricity, heat, and are now to expand the role of this important fund so that it reaches sustainability. But what is missing is what I repeatedly said to him. The head of the case, Njátt Njáll Friðbertsson of the Committee, said that there is doubt in the head as much as a minister can abuse this power. He's the one who finally agrees with the motions. All I suggested was that we move the same way we went about the Food Fund six weeks ago. There would be a professional body, not just these three members to be appointed by the Minister himself, not just to seek advice somewhere, no, that it is mandatory, as we said six weeks ago, to order professional advice, appoint seven members from the university community, the innovation sector, the industry, not just these three members of the Council and then agree. We agreed on the Food Fund that seven people would have to be appointed to give them the best advice to support a four-man government, not just the one with the Power Fund now, when a minister is to order three men. No, listed by stakeholders in the article as well. Even though the minister had even lower authority there, we decided to put in the practical advice to support it, supporting other views and reducing the problem of temptation. But the food supply we did all that already did has the job of strengthening development and innovation in the production and production of food in agriculture and seas, while energy funds have a much wider, bigger, and more important role for America's interests. [[The president calls.]] My proposal is in place. When it comes to committees between 2 and 3. Um... we don't have to look at this any more, okay? The manager of the case, Njáll of Trausti Friðbertsson?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u51	Mr. President. I truly agree with what. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson on the importance of Energy Fund for 50 years. In terms of national energy exchange and thermalisation: This is one of our main resources, and energy funds have played an enormous role. If I remember correctly, it is over 100 billion savings for an Icelandic national farm a year to have a heating system, like we run it today, rather than use other energy sources to warm up facilities in Iceland. That is an enormous task, an important one. As I visited earlier, when I gave the opinion of a greater part of the Committee, it is stated that the Commission or the management board is obliged to consult the Power Institute and other experts as appropriate before offering proposals for grants or loans from Energy Fund or subsidies on loans. It is also noted in the opinion that the advisory committee also operates according to protocol No. 654, with an advertisement in the Management News from 29 June 2016, but the rules are set on the basis of the above regulations. It says that those on the Advisor committee should observe the rules for decision making and that assessments of inadequacy should take into account the regulations of government laws. As stated in the majority opinion, the larger part, with the reference in the paper with the bill, is suggested by the fact that in no other way a change in the arrangement of command in command is expected, that there is no need to suggest the change and correct the more part of it, is an understanding that in the Regulation the obligation of a government to seek the direction of the Power Agency and other experts is still required. At the same time, it is clearly stated that at the order of the administration, the terms of the administrative law are in place and, in the same way, the terms of administrative law in evaluating the potential incompetent management and payment of the government. So it is considered that there is a greater proportion of the committee that is adequately handled here on those issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u52	President. Hv. The head of the case, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, says that there is an assessment of a greater part of the committee, and that is in the committee's opinion and clearly the opinion of the committee, that the general conditions presented on the committee are just that, to the relevant person having a clean record of good conduct and so on. It doesn't hold anything. And one person must seek the opinion of the Power Agency. At the Food Fund, as we went over, it is not just that a minister ship three parties, like the Power Fund now, which he employs all by himself, and then accepts or rejects suggestions from them. No, with the Food Fund, there are four members in the board, of which two of the stakeholders, and seven members of the Subcommittee, a profession to be appointed, and its views must be taken into account. Hv. A senator is not fooling anyone if he claims that this is not a better setting to ensure professional viewpoints, a better innovation, that public funds will be done better when it is as we agreed to it six weeks ago at the Food Fund. That knows why. The chairman of the case, Private Friðbertsson. Of course, it can be done, but if he does not, and he has convinced more of the committee not to do so, which then convinces more of the council not to do so, he draws all those people into it. Now we're going to self-sustaining, windmills and stuff like that, possibly aprons. What if, in turn, they are assigned to members who are somehow dependent or connected with his body members, linked to his council, the political parties associated with this government begin to be assigned from the fund? You start to say, "That's not good. Instead, why don't we prepare this with a professional view of seven people, such as we did with the Food Fund, which guarantees it and keeps the government tight of the fact that the Ministers will not be tempted to misplace public funds when it comes to the energy fund and damage the reputation of the fund after all this great and wonderful journey? We can do that. It would be a professional thing to do. It would be wise to do so. It would be good for all of us to do so, and we have an opportunity to do so between the 2nd and 3rd. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u53	Mr. President. It is stated in the bill and the majority of the panels that the Management Board is made available to experts and that they present their suggestions under experts.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u54	As appropriate.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u55	It is in the majority opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u56	We're on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u57	It's a minister who then makes the final decision. This is made clear in the setting. Then I'd like to say that I've only studied who's been in the Power Fund in the last 20 years. I can't see any better than this, but it's been going really well, and people and their well - working jobs have grown in the group, and history's been incredibly good and powerful all this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u58	We're changing it now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u59	We're here with proper guidelines, we have administrative guidelines that are referred to to to the value of this as well as to the appropriate and other aspects of the fund's business, which we're here to establish new laws. So we don't think it's necessary. It's been going well, and it's very clear what's being suggested, to what the law is referred to, so we feel that it's very satisfactory how things are being done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u60	President. The majority of what I study in this talk made no mistake. The manager of the case, Njáll Friðbertsson. Maybe I'll go over it a little bit and describe what my new proposal is. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the Power Fund. The role that the Power Fund has been assigned and inserted into the Power Institute is to create a special fund for it. As I mentioned earlier, we were accepting a law on Food Fund six weeks ago. The bill came from a minister, he appoints the administration of four men, two appointed after the appointment of stakeholders, and the minister appoints the two. But the professional board, which we have. Councilmen, Njáll Traustir Friðbertsson and I, sit in, wanted to add seven people's practical advice to allow more people to and should have a better and more professional approach, they would have to order and look to them according to their viewpoints and agreements. This is so that public funds from the fund are professional and determined by the majority of the views that are relevant to the efficiency and effectiveness of this matter and that public funds are being treated well. That's what we put in through Food Fund. My proposal is that it will also be this way with the Power Fund. According to the bill, the Minister orders three parties, he appoints them all himself, and they are to seek advice from the Power Institute and any other sources if necessary. They don't necessarily have to, but they can if they see reason. As for the Food Fund, which we passed six weeks ago, we decided that seven bodies of professionals would be arranged, from the university community, the innovation community, the industry, and that they would have to consult with the legislatures of the fund. Why it matters. Yes, it does. Because, like a dog, it matters. A senator and spokesman for the case, Njáll Friðbertsson, said that there are billions of people being played earlier? 100? Or was it a billion?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u61	Society's profits every year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u62	Yeah, it's society's profit every year. That's right. During the energy exchange that took place with heating, it was 100 billion a year. So it's not just a small amount of money that goes along with it. Since the problem of temptation is less available where professional viewpoints are handled, it is likely to bring benefits to society. That's all I'm pointing at. I'm asking why. A member of the Independence Party and head of the Committee on the matter, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, yearns to do what I remind Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir has done about the Food Fund, putting professional advice under this regime, organized people from many parts of the community to promote professional views. Good advice that you need to consult must be prepared for and receive accurate comments. That is exactly what advice would do. Why, then, does the manager of the case beg to agree on this matter, as we did about the Food Fund six weeks ago? In answer to me earlier, the spokesman told the case that there were appropriate conditions. But we know that the committee said: "The right conditions are only standard conditions. That you don't have a criminal record, something a little bit like that. It will not prevent any decision on the orders of this administration, ordering the right people who actually offer suggestions that are acceptable to a minister. If you can appoint people without being a professional frame around them, it creates a temptation problem and there is a risk of being treated badly with the public funds from the Energy Fund. There's a general rule, like a dog. A senator mentioned, instead of doing what we did about the Food Fund. Let's just go over the bill that takes Power Fund out of Power Institute and makes it independent. The majority do not want to place this professional arrangement in order to avoid temptation and to ensure that public funds are properly returned to where they are due. 1st par. It's just about Power Fund, with President's permission: A wealth of literature will be owned by the Icelandic government, known as the Power Fund. The state is responsible for the commitments of the fund, and it hears it governmentally under a minister. I'll vote with two. par., because that's the good change in the role of the fund, which is the purpose of the bill. By permission of the President: The energy fund's hard work is to promote the economic use of national energy resources through funding or loans, in particular for reducing fossil fuels use and increasing the use of national renewable energy sources. Great. We're shifting the funds from the role they've had that has yielded enormous benefits to use the fund to bring us into a more sustainable, sustainable and independent energy-efficiency system in the country. And for that very reason, the more important it is that the work is being carried out is beyond doubt, that we have a setting that prevents temptation from being brought into existence, which is what my declaration of change involves. It's the same thing we did six weeks ago. How Would You Answer? ... withauthority of the President's permission: It also supports projects that promote energy security and competitiveness in energy and energy related tasks on the basis of energy policy, innovation policies, regional policies and government policies on climate. Why, then, do we not have a professional advice that may be given, which must and must advise this three - man government commanded by the minister? They are to work and projects should be on the basis of energy policy, innovation, regional policy, and government policy on climate. Why, then, do we not get members who are known in the preliminaries who assist this three - man minister government in how money should be distributed from this fund? It's set up. Of course, it would be professional. Of course, it would ensure that the purpose of the law was met, as stated in a committee program with a bill on the Food Fund that we agreed on six weeks ago. It says the greater part, by permission of the President: The more part agrees with the importance of ensuring a wider appearance in the fund so that the funds will be successful. In view of this, the greater part suggests that the fund's management will be required to appoint up to seven professionals for four years. Presidential advice on professional matters will be provided by the management board and will give reviews on the disposition of funds as well as general advice to the management board on what she wishes. Wouldn't it be better to put such professional advice in the Power Fund as we did in the Food Fund? Of course. Come on, with president's permission: The ▪ The more important part emphasizes that it includes will be looked to the university community on the order of the professional council, along with a view to experience and knowledge from the workplace and to the pioneers and the innovations of the sector. Would it not be more professional and successful and more likely to reduce the problem of moral hazard to set such professional advice under the Power Fund? Of course, now. paritaprevir And Trausti Friðbertsson. I'll continue with the Power Fund bill, Section 3. ▪ The secretary appoints three individuals in the management of Power Fund to four years, of which one appointed head should be appointed. The minister only commands everyone, while he appoints four in the management of Food Fund, but two must be nominated by other sources. More is involved in the introduction of outsiders, and more than that, it does not fit in with a wise minister who has authority or arbitrarily decided. The temptation problem is taken away so that public funds are better handled. Come on, with President's permission, in 3. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending The Power Fund manager shall oversee the management of the fund in accordance with its role. Enforcement agencies are responsible for the daily management of Energy Funds under the control of the fund. When it comes to 4. I'll be on red there, because that says, with president's permission: The Power Fund offers suggestions for Ministers on loans and contributions from the Energy Fund in accordance with the government's emphasis and policy policy. The minister decides the focus and policy. The secretary appoints three members. The only thing that needs to be taken care of is a general condition for which administration laws are minimally appropriate. As a result, a minister can appoint virtually anyone he wants. And a minister writes under the suggestions for disparagement of public funds provided by this three-man ministership committee, which operates precisely according to the rules and policies established by the minister. This has brought us into temptation, that public property is ill treated. Of course, we can prevent it or improve it by giving seven people practical advice, such as we did with the Food Fund. Why does Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson want the case? Who's going to get out of the fund? Who in the end will get a share out of the fund? Now we're moving on to sustainable development with this change, which is great. Who will be given out of this fund? The little fellow, Fallor, who came in there, was not pleased with this bill as it was presented. He said that the little parties would be in a very bad position against getting funds from the fund. Who will receive funds from this fund? Are there any big, strong parties to this? Yes, it must be, at least, compared to what Fall energy thinks. And who will that be? Might it be some members who are linked into political parties? Does anyone have a connection? That's what's danger. Of course, that is a danger. And if that happens, if the setting is not good, as revealed in a reliable report by the prime minister, there is a doubt or danger of being used in the interests of public authority, which undermines confidence in politics. This is made clear in the trust report by the prime minister, and we should do everything we can to prevent it. It's our job here if we're going to do it well. I'm going on with 4. ... withauthority of the President's permission: The Energy Fund offers proposals for the Ministers on loans and contributions from the Energy Fund in accordance with the government's emphasis and policies as well as the fund's financial and financial payment programmes. Energy funds are not permitted to give Power Institute strength or loan from the fund. That's all, that's the only limit. 5. Article 3 of that., review of the President's permission: In accordance with the rules of Energy Fund, those who receive strength or loan from the Power Fund shall account for the progress of projects and the provision of funds. There was the industrial organization, if I recall correctly, that would require more transparency. I think the manager of the case is going to do it, and that's a good thing. An annual review of energy accounts will be provided by the European Union's Environment Programme (Eionet). That's good. Make a vote with it. 6th ... aboutwrong. The energy fund is a contribution made from a government fund at the General's decision on the budget each time, and interest from the funds of the fund. 7. gross, cost of business. ▪ Embraced by the operation of Energy Fund, it is paid by his earnings or by his own money. Section 8. is a state-of-the-art authority. There is the possibility of a gratifying minister. I'll go over her. The secretary shall set up a more detailed directive on the requirements for contributions from Energy Fund, the preparation of stocks, loans, including interest rates and other budgets, payment on projects provided by Energy Fund, and the ability to reduce remuneration. Fall down reimbursement, there's all kinds of things in there. On the other hand, there is a minister who sets up a requirement in the Regulation for the proceedings on these grounds, which, of course, offers a moral problem. If you decide what the conditions are, you can adapt them to the companies you prefer to receive from the fund. The minister has tremendous power in this bill, there is an excessive temptation. Will a minister be tempted? Maybe not this minister, but we don't know who the next secretary will be. I wonder if he'll get tempted. We have no idea. But there is a moral hazard in this bill, an enormous temptation, to treat Power Fund badly. That's not good. Count 9. is a law of value, the law has already become valid. I've said what I wanted to say. I've proposed a change of proposal that we put a professional advice into the Energy Fund to limit the moral problems of a minister and increase the professional approach on how funds are dispensed from funds for innovations and that the university community is coming in. It is to achieve the purpose of the law, which is absolutely clear to be energy related tasks on the basis of energy policy, innovation, regional policy, and government policies on climate. Of course, we need to have more access to this and to secure it, as we did about the Food Fund, in that it is obliged to appoint seven professionals to assist Energy Fund management to distribute public funds on the most professional grounds, with the least of all moral problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u63	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion from a greater part of the employment committee on bill to legalize a change in brand-name law, No. 45/1997, with subsequent changes. The committee has discussed the matter and has arranged for visitors to meet with them, from the Department of Professional Affairs and from sources of information that gave the Commission review. The bill suggests changes to the logo law, No. 45/1997, due to the implementation of the European Parliament and Council Directive (EU) 2015/2436 from December 16, 2015, on accordance with Member States' logo legislation, called the SmPC. The target of the directive is an increase in the coordination of European product rules and is moved to modern trends in accordance with the latest technologies. This directive includes a review of previous product signals directives and therefore it is considered necessary to review the laws on logos and social signals in relation to their changes. In addition, there is an adjustment in the regulations of the legislation on product labels designed to enhance clarity and harmony with other mental and private rights specialities. It Is Not for Me (September), No. 155/2002, will be included in the logo law, No. 45/1997, during the implementation of the directive, as has been done in Norway, Denmark and Sweden. The goals and subject of a bill in other respects are referred to in a series of articles. The Commission held the opinion that further harmonisation of goods rules in the European Union would be provided for Icelandic companies who intend to launch abroad and may help them to protect their ideal rights. With a factor of 3. The bill is presented with significant changes in the product labels. As shown by the bill, the requirement for a brand must be visible, as stated by the older directive, is under way. It will be enough to set a signal so that the registration authorities and consumers can recognize the mark and extent of the protection required. Some discussions were made in the Committee about the enlarged decomposition, including for recording the smell or taste as a logo. According to one report, when evaluating a unique non-standard signal, the European Court's findings are looked forward to in a so - called Siecman language that sets out guidelines that are appropriate when registration of unconventional products is assessed. Foremostly, there is a clear, precise, complete, accessible, understandable, durable, and neutral presentation. The majority of it feels positive that this possibility of recording a smell and taste that can be considered part of the modernisation of the product law is present, although it may actually be difficult to obtain such registration approved. In the review of Arnason Faktor ehf. to the Committee is presented as the view that the bill might have added to the bill regulations for the change of 14 paragraph. The law says that it can be banned from recording a brand at an earlier well - known sign. In the treatment of the case before the commission, it was stated that it has been considered to be a sufficient product owners to apply 4 p.m. the law on the protection of known brands when contrasting the registration of brands and protesters sees its signal as being so well known that it is more protected. In such cases, evidence is presented to support the claim that the signal in question is well - known. Therefore, protection of well-known product labels should not be necessary in both sections 4. The law and the 14th. These and do not suggest any other item to make any changes. With 2 mg. Twenty-one. The bill is presented with a new word, as 2 mgr. 49. g. Directive, that the Investigator's office should inform the owner that a registration period is running out and that this should be done at least 6 months before the end of the period. Sigurándjónsson & Thor in his review of the matter comment to that arrangement, and count including to explain whether the Investigator Service intends to send such a announcement in their presence or to send the owners a form directly, despite the agents'presence. The majority believe that such a case is not a reason to suggest a change but to direct it to the Ministry to make clear the process of such announcements in the Regulation. Then I'm going to go over some of the changes I made in the rest of the section. For the Committee, it came to the view that on the bill it is important to watch both the use of the term and the harmony of the wording of the law. In the review of Arnason Faktor ehf. asked the committee to render words in regulations 7, 8, and 9. adjusted accordingly. gr., by stopping the phrase when confusion is discontinued, instead of the misapplication of Based on the inner harmony of the law. The majority of the committee agree on these views and suggest appropriate adjustments, taking into account that there is a language that has been established in this and within the sector. Among the changes proposed by the bill, it is clear that a administrative process is laid down in the deletion of written product signals, as set out in regulations 28 and 30. g. a in the law. This process is expected to be divided in half according to the regulations of the directive. On one hand, invalidation of the product label, such as for lack of use, and, on the other, the deletion of a registry, such as if a brand is not considered to have met the requirements for registration. A work stationary and innovational memo to the Committee suggests changes to the Minister's clearance in order to establish further rules on conflict and invalid matters, such as 65.g. The law. The twofold process is not expected in this law, so it is necessary to change the arrangement so that the minister's permission reflects it. The majority agree with that view and suggest an appropriate change in the bill. The Commission's memo for the job and innovation to the Committee is suggested to adopt the bill's regulations, 33. ...... will be changed so that the law will take effect on September 1, 2020, instead of already becoming valid. Such change allows for the technical adjustments needed to make this bill legal. The majority agree with these views and therefore contribute to harmony. At the same time, the greater portion, having agreed with the Ministry, will contribute to a change of 34. It is required of the law, in that the regulations of the 20th chapter are made plain. only includes applications transmitted by the Compulsion Office after the granting of the law will the bill become a law. Other proposals for more part than those mentioned above are technical and not intended to have material influence. According to the above, a greater proportion of the committee contributes to the approval of the bill by the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Hv. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter, who was absent from the case, signed this opinion in line with 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " Senators Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Friðbertsson Signý Trausti, Ísleifsson Fjörður Friurfjörðurofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofofoft, Álur, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörnóððurfjörðursson and Sigurður Páll Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u64	President. This is where the right of ownership is extended when it comes to mental rights. However, this is what many people who love the European Union still say is one of the faults involved, i.e. the minds that are very strong there. According to this bill, now is to expand the intellectual rights, the company signals, and the taste and smell also covered by a warehouse. Just so we realize the absurdity of the matter or where we can take it, and in which direction people can slowly step, although at first they may not be much of it, we know that when these rights have come in, they tend to wind up and grow bigger and bigger. Once upon a time, there were men, e.g. Privacy of drugs, i.e. the medicine itself, the crystals. Added to that, men had the exclusive right to the process of making the medicine and always being added. It can be dangerous. This is essential in many ways, but we do not want to go too far, for this can limit normal community development, e.g. that you have the exclusive right to a gene that causes breast cancer and can charge if you want to investigate it. Of course it's bad. When making decisions like this, we must be careful not to step in that direction, not open the door wide for putting things like smell and taste under a brand. Let's try this. Here's the executive speaker, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjinnsdótttir. Let's start with the advance party. How would the smell and taste of the advance party be if the forwarding party would place it in their company logo? We know its color, and there is a form of grain in the mark, but what about smell and taste? The smell may be easier to imagine, what might it be like? [[Up front.]] Violet, says "wow." Senator. So when this bill is approved, I suggest it. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir would rush to the warehouse and record the host before the Central Party can smell it. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I can calm down. A senator by the time I asked him why. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, the Sveinsson of Sveinn, to see if he was going to take the fisco, he said, "No, we'll take the horse's smell, of course, with the horse in his badge." Hv. Hence, a senator does not necessarily have to run, can move slowly. Let's try the Independence Party. Hv. paritaprevir And Trausti Friðbertsson is in the gym. What would the smell of independence be like? It's a hard, a little broad category, and there's a lot of people inside the board. No longer can it be said that it is not Old Spice, it has become much more polymorphism in the category, but a senator might want to think about it if he is going to get the right smell in the class. Let's try the left green. I think before the last election the taste of left green was pretty sweet, taste change, and do better. What is the taste of doing better? Very cute. I suspect, however, that today it has become bitter. The natural taste of the left green today, if they had taste and would record it, would be bitter, bitter would come in there. But I don't get Pirata. What would the smell or taste of Pirillas be like? That's a question. Would it be rum? Maybe, that's what's been happening to me and Pirata a lot. The smell of beer? Pears love beer. At least it doesn't smell tusks, so we don't eat rotten or other folk foods, so maybe it's the beer. But out of humor, it's a real danger. That doesn't say in 3. The bill for smell and taste, says the report, and judgment has fallen in the European Court that odors and flavors are below that. The door is being opened for such things. What I wanted to know on the committee was if we could be excluded from this. The members of the Committee said we weren't. I'm not sure yet. You can't always get the right information on the Committee. But this is the situation. I'm obviously supposed to agree with this. Maybe you know why. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy, who follows me in a talk, respond to whether this is something we might be excluded from, that we are not putting in law in Iceland that a partner sign, a brand, can contain a smell and taste. It's kind of a bad taste.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u65	A respectable president. Many things are in you, said the woman, and so do I. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson has done a pretty loose thing, but all the fun comes with a few serious things. We are implementing a directive which makes it easier for Icelandic companies to go to market abroad, in Europe with their products, like taste or smell. Hv. A senator asked what the smell meant to each group, and I called out that it was a trip smell in the advance. It's an example of a very strong, striking smell, and you don't make it very simply, it's there. There may not be many people who want to carry it, but it's natural, organic, and good. But then there's all the smell and smell that it's so thoughtful about what's good and what's not. Frozen smells cause some to feel repugnant, and others will think that they will be home if they find it. But then I'd like to ask, "Do you feel why?" A senator would not be an improvement in the fact that we are taking up this directive to support Icelandic companies, to establish it? Taste and smell may come later, we're already selling, for example. mountain air. It may not taste or smell. But count 'em why. A senator does not improve the fact that we are implementing this directive to support Icelandic companies?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u66	President. Of course, that will improve what the senator mentioned. But as soon as we're through with the smell and taste, what happens if someone else gets ahead of us and takes the smell of mysu or a trigger or something if they can get it in? Or some sort of ammonia smell, as is the case with many cheeses? Then they get that logo and maybe they have a priority rights in Iceland. That'll rule us out. Once someone has this right, they can rule out others. I'm just warning you. They're opening for it in Iceland to put in the smell and taste. There are steps being taken, they are opening the door, and we know where it leads. That's all I'm saying. If we have a warrant for not putting a smell and taste under a brand, then my suggestion is that we don't. We talked about it on the committee a little bit, but we know why. A senator whether it was the secret answer to the Ministry that we could not separate the smell and taste of the law so that my proposal would conflict with the EEA deal? Did the Ministry give a decisive answer on this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u67	A respectable president. Yeah, I think the ministry answer was that we were following the order. That judgment had fallen, and that's why we're filming it, and he included instructions on taste and smell. Hv. A senator brings up a taste of cheese, which can be very special. If anyone could get enough, for example. The smell of the Dala started, I assume that the company of the company had a patent license for that brand. If we had, for example. To get private rights for the brand piece, it couldn't have been opened because there are so many different flavors of a plant that I don't think it is possible to reach. It's been taken away from us. For example, if we take yogurt from different companies, the flavor is always similar, but it can always be taken out just to bring something else, just like perfumes and other items. So I think it's been carried out by the above court review and that we were right to violate the directive if we hadn't taken it with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u68	President. I think we had to install this. Hv. An authority does not know if it can be avoided. I'm just pointing out that there is a danger. Someone could come and be first and take the Dalaavan, that's what's happened. Peru and Chile were fighting for whose name was Pisco, that's a name for burnt white wine. If you put it in oak, you get brandy or brandy. Brandy is naturally linked to a certain province in France. Since Cisco was born in Peru, Chile preceded the name Pisi, and Peru lost it. Don't think it's not a two - edged sword, it is, and it can cut us too.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u69	Mr. President. For decades it has been warned that dilatation of the brain rights is a dangerous phenomenon that becomes more dangerous as it is tolerated. If you look back to your past and your first mind - set song, it is usually referred to as ▪ The Way of Anne, or to drottning Anna's legislation in Britain, which I recall was made in 1710. It gave writers the monopoly rights for publishing books and actions after them. This was quite natural, although at that time the goal was not to ensure authors'rights but to ensure the Crown's ability to censor printed material. It has evolved considerably and could be attributed to a short or long story. Written on that subject, there have been quite a number of thick books. Today you can talk about the rights of mind primarily as three different rights, i.e. Authorized, patented, and then brand-new. Unfortunately, there is a tendency to mix this whole thing up and mix up, but all of this is very different. So I clearly explain it, there's something that the author's right, something that people get automatically as soon as they create something for publication. You don't have to record anything or do anything to get a writer's condition, you just get it automatically. You have a legal right for the rest of your life and an additional 70 years, in fact, shorter for companies. The argument for authoritarian rights has always been to try to encourage people to create more things, although they do not really fit in with this life - span plus 70 years, because death is that time point in each person's life, since no force in life could encourage him to produce more writers. But there is another discussion. On the other hand, patents are significantly limited in time and values for inventions or, in many cases, methods called in English, by the permission of a president, the method of doing something, and, in increasing numbers, inventions such as drugs and such. To cover things like certain genes and similar genetics, it is now used to expand the process. This may be the case, e.g. Find the bacteria that are patented. Then there's a third part about which this bill is about, and that's a brand. The product label is the factor which is both the easiest and the most difficult to justify, i.e. that certain traditions that people sense belong to certain individuals or enterprises in order to distinguish them from others. When products have signals from Nike, McDonald's or Facebook or whatever, and you might also mention some Icelandic brand, people are quite aware that these are products from their agencies. True, if you watch the development of the season's branding rights, you may have been used primarily by larger companies already in a market monopolis position to prevent their monotonous status from being benefited. If you look, for example. the difference between larger production companies all know and e.g. The tambourines or pizza companies usually do not have a brand in their logo or name. Still, they successfully compete with one another. It is only when an enterprise is placed on the market that the product protection will really be an important part of defending the company's properties. It is in this context that we need to examine this dull bill. It's a bad bill, based on a bad idea that came from the European Union. And I'm saying, "What?" paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson back then; Europeans like me are often critical of the European Union because of how much those who want to expand the monopoly rights to ideas available there are allowed to play loose, to influence the way the law is set, etc. In fact, it is so bad that one of the many bars of the Council of Europe in Brussels has been called by many people on the leave of presidents or the Mickey Mouse Bar because of the average number of lobsters from companies such as Disney, who sit for members of Congress. This is an extensive and well - known problem in the European Union. Then we come to what the bill is going to expand. There are such things as smell and taste, and to some extent colors and perceptions are an interesting phenomenon. But when we talk about smell, we need to realize that the smell is something that changes after temperatures, after moisture levels, people sense odors differently, and that perception varies according to age, sex, and genotype, and, in fact, some other factors, such as what you eat for lunch or whether you have had a cold recently. All of this makes it necessary for you to develop some kind of objective standard of smell. It's very complicated. It is an enormous complication. Should you go to the spectroscopy on the materials that produce the smell? If so, what is the reference to production stability? The Toy Toy toy Company Hasbro has, for example. I've been given a meal label on the smell of the Play-Doh mass in the United States, and most likely in Europe too, I don't quite know it. But ask: Is the production of the Play-Doh Quantum accurate enough to cover a particular odor that produces a particular olfactory response from a particular substance, or is it free in the ropes that it covers a considerable wide category of chemicals? Then the accuracy of the measurements is very serious. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson mentioned before Pósco, a drink produced in a very inaccurate way. It's just the nature of the case. The same can be said of whiskey and other drinks not made in perfectly controlled circumstances. They are, for example. is grown old in the oak tree, and not all of them that are oak tree are like one: it looketh after the eye. So, should a company just get the product rights of all possible chemicals that could produce a scent that could possibly be returned as some product from this particular company? Or should this be more specific? It has not been defined in what way it should be. Other chemicals and other odors might be discussed. Chanel N°5 is known worldwide as peppermint, well known. In 2013 the company attended G. Pohl-Boskamp GmbH & Co. KG in Germany, that I think, of this particular kind of monopoly license, i.e. brand right on smell, for peppermint smell. Then an interesting problem arose. You see, there are certain modes of activity available when this patent is delivered and the target of activity, or, by the permission of a president, ◯funicity doctrine, making it necessary for the smell to have some activity in the sense that people must be able to smell it. Dissolves may occur, e.g. not falling under the label rights. On the other hand, the smell cannot have a role. The thing about this is that peppermint smell promotes the activity of drugs that work for a particular disease that I do not know its name in English, by permission of presidents of the United States, which I do not know about. The efficacy criterion makes it appear that there may be a contradiction in the meal court regarding odors, and the contradiction will not disappear until nature is changed, which I don't expect to happen in the near future. Then we can talk about colours. Well, it's obvious that people have different colour perceptions, I name people with different colour-blinds. But it is also clear that color perceptions also change with age, depending on genotype and even gender. We know that when you talk about color, e.g. green or blue on the walls of the Assembly Hall, we are actually talking about an electromagnetic response from certain atoms in the process of exorbitant electromagnetic waves, electromagnetic radiation, on a particular mixture of times. White colour is for example. No response other than complete response, i.e. all possible frequencies within the visible spectrum and black is really a deficiency of color. But when we're talking about a particular wave combination, man's eye has no more than a measure of accuracy, and that precision has even changed over time, as we know. The color that people know has changed. Blue colors usually had only one or two names in most languages until some hundred years ago. This has developed very fast, even with some cultural factor making what colors exist. We need to look at the situation in light of this when talking about giving business monopolysimization rights to a certain response within the electromagnetic root. True, we do so even now with regard to telephone companies and others who want to engage in radio or television broadcasts or similar. But here we are talking about the visible swing, the swing of the human eye. We need to examine this in the context of the fact that it would be very bad if all the nuances of red were suddenly in the private possession of certain companies. Mr. President. If I take it together, then there's a very complicated level that comes with this. Worse yet, these objects have been limited in part because man's sensitivity reaches only a certain extent, and the sensitivity of measuring instruments to identify who has a certain variation is not perfect. This is so seen in intense opposition, e.g. the right to think, knowing that there are countless ways in which you can put your words together and get out different books. You can't say that the right of the author is as limited a resource as smell or light, let alone taste, a flavor is just a variation of the smell. When we're going to expand these rights in this way, such complicated rights that are already misunderstood, let them cover all the resources we enjoy with our eyes and nose every day, we have to ask: "Who is this for? What role does this play in our community? Are we defending rights that someone has truly earned in a legitimate way? Has Has Hasbro e.g. Do they earn rights in a particular type of clay? Is it reasonable to say that a certain dresser has the right to have a certain odor? And color, it would be rather boring if various colors were to disappear out of sight unless they were part of a brand. There will always be efforts in those who want to have reality to expand the privilege of making it more and more of the real world. But until people begin to realize how dangerous it is and start to resist it, they will continue. You can make fun of this bill, and I thought it was a pretty good thing before, to mock how political parties would try to get monopoly on it, but seriously speaking, it's about so much more than that. If only we'd been smarter 100 years ago or 50 years ago when the WIPO deal was created which is fundamentally an author's right to ideas, i.e. Private secrets, perhaps we would have made fun of them, perhaps even saying no to them. But it won't be done here. In part, it is because this is a European directive and we are required to cooperate with it. All right. It would have been extremely useful for Iceland to have had a seat at the table and can say no. There may be another bigger issue because those who press these rights are primarily a multinational firm, a company that will have everything to do with having a bigger and larger share of the reality every day. Then there is nothing more than a multinational political conflagration that can resist it. While politicians in Iceland and in all other countries are not aware of how dangerous this trend is, it will continue. Although I am a European, and I insist on working with Europe and with the whole world, I will say no to this bill because it's a bad trend. I'm asking all of you. Senators to realize how dangerous it is when property in the universe and reality falls into the hands of a few companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for his speech and his argument for not supporting the bill. You're right next door. A senator that it is easy to ridicule the factors being extended by the bill, what can be considered to be a legal symbol, taste, smell, color, sound, pattern, etc. I also think the interesting point of what? A senator about having a seat at the table to get our views involved. We've talked about it many times in this council hall when it comes to EEA directives and our interests in that regard. I think we're gonna do what. A senator will wholeheartedly agree that our interests need to be greatly increased. We've been talking about that for a lot of years at the council and in other political places. In the 3rd. The bill shows that the change, the dilation of what can be considered a brand, is consistent with the development of new technologies. I wondered about certain private rights that we Iceland and the Icelandic company may not have come out well enough, such as to form in the exclusive form of a ski and certain flavors of an Icelandic food tradition that would have been allowed to produce certain brands of company so that other companies could not profit from something that would be considered an aldian food tradition. Would not the bill be designed to protect some kind of tradition in food production that can be used to prevent an enterprise from abusing it in that way? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What do you think? A senator about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u71	Mr. President. In the past, I have said that by not defending our interests in this matter, we lost a very big opportunity. In fact, it has become a bit common when it comes to defending Icelandic interests that people are a little late. But we are not talking about anything that falls right here. The smell and flavor of a mist is not as important as the term snorkel, the method of producing snorkels. When we discuss this in this context, we need to realize that there has already been a marked expansion of mental rights to cover what is called geographic significance. For example, pamesan's name cannot be named pamesan by that one, unless it comes from the region of Reggie, Italy, etc. Of course, we should have said, "Yes, a monster comes from Iceland." But that was not done. And because all the regulations on agriculture in Iceland are always so focused on trying to protect the agriculture from having to participate in competition, the world's largest stockmaker is now in Finland. It's the product of the Icelanders, but it's not related to any expansion of the brain rights. In fact, it all has to do with us Icelanders becoming aware of what we already have and playing the game as he is played. We can, for example, have a long conversation about how we change the government and society in order to stop messing up big opportunities. At any rate, let us try not to screw up the opportunity to turn down large companies, mostly in the United States, a larger part of reality. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think it might be interesting to talk about it for what it is. A senator came on, and I wholeheartedly agree with him about large multinational chains that are taking over a variety of brands and that this bill may open up to it. I think we all need to be aware of that. I think this bill is meant to protect the smaller parties from the larger ones, as we discussed in the previous answer to the report on the scurry. Consider, for example, a perfume producer in Mosfellsdal, who likes to have a name for it and who prefers to have a name for it, then big business could steal it and use it for a purpose other than the producers of the smell could envision it. Less people want to defend themselves against bigger partners. I think we're gonna do what. A senator will agree that it is not desirable to have large international business blocks that take over all kinds of brands. Hv. A senator named cheese. The French have become very angry that they have not protected their brands of cheese, which are particularly characteristic of French food tradition and have lost brands there. I'd like to hear even more from what. A senator what he envisions about smaller producers smells and taste, and then we're talking about food and something that might be perfumed, or cosmetics, or something like that, to larger sources. [[The president calls.]] Isn't this bill designed to protect the smaller producers from the big?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u73	Mr. President. That's a good point. But that has always been said. Somehow, brain rights and their dilation are always supported by evidence that it is in order to protect less members. ▪ The moment of Anne, in 1710, mentioned at the outset of my talk, was presented as a means of defending writers, but was mainly responsible for defending the queen and her authority over publishing activity. In 1976, Conny Bonoactkoko, U.S.A., was presented as a means of defending and extending the rights of individuals, but mainly had the responsibility to ensure that Disney's ownership of his ideals to an additional 70 years of age. In the end, it is always a matter of extending the rights of the big parties and always at the expense of the larger ones. We see so many examples of this, and it has been written so much about it. I don't even know where to begin. There are, of course, smaller people who have profited from intellectual rights, but I can't remember any kind of study that would show that the smaller persons would have made less money in the absence of the intellectual rights. It may be the point of the case that, in the final analysis, there will be the rights of authorship, monopolis, such as patents and meal rights, not up and have no purpose outside the community where large companies have very much control. Everything's going that way. We need better competitive rules, we need better rules to hold it all together, but this won't help a small party, either in Iceland or anywhere else. [[The president calls.]] If something is, this will contribute to the purchase of smaller parties from larger companies or they will be expelled in one way or another.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u74	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion on the bill to legalize the laws of tourism's Fund, No. 75/2011 (targets and roles), from a greater part of the employment committee. The committee has discussed the matter and had seven members discuss it. In addition, the Commission received reviews from five sources, the National Marketing Office, the Union of Icelandic rural society, the Travel Service Association, the West War Office, and Iceland's Scaring Alliance. The bill suggests changes to the European Commission Actual Fund, No. 75/2011, who redefined the range of values of the law to emphasize their objective of promoting sustainable development, balance and regional trends in accordance with national programmes and programmes, such as destination programmes. This can contribute to the equal distribution of tourists across the country and support regional development in rural and private areas. The law of the law defines a task that the fund provides as a source of strength and with full doubt that tourist routes, as defined by the laws on national construction of infrastructure for the protection of nature and cultural memory, No. 20/2016, strong. The bill's report says that the change in law reflects government policies, including the one showing. In the future view and guided by Icelandic tourism to 2030, it shows that European tourism will lead to sustainable development based on three main areas, i.e. The economic balance, social balance, and environmental balance, and the success of tourism, competitiveness, and harmony with land and nation. Generally, reporters described satisfaction with the subject of the bill. However, the review of survival established the view that access would have to be ensured in the places assigned from the travel fund. Therefore, the assessment of applications and contributions from the fund should be made of all-trap design. To that end, there were various arguments, including those that occurred in the first century C.E. Refer to the commitments of the United Nations government on the basis of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people and equalitarians. In view of the greater part, it is appropriate to take into account perspectives on absolute design when making decisions on the disposition of funds and to emphasize bioavailability to all as much as possible. In addition, the more part is entitled to the discussion of the bill, No. 160/2010, the absolute design of the human race falls under the scope of the law. A comment was made in the comments given by the Group of Tourist Services, West Coast, and the National Marketing Office of the United States. Figure 1. 2 mg. 2.g. law on national development programmes for the protection of nature and cultural memory no. 20/2016. The concept is there defined as a form that connects tourism sites. Tourists can be walking, riding, and bicycle routes. These testimonials were correct in saying that tourist roads fell under the term, not merely walkways, riding, and bicycle routes, as they were in current law. The Commission's review said that with more intensive tourism development, there was a greater distribution of tourists, a higher quality of life for the local population, and an improved access to destinations. In this context, the construction of a strong tourist road system in Norway was pointed to. According to the National Institute of Marketing Authorisations, there would be limited structure for the open and moats of the Roadway, called the Western Institute, which would be the basis for the construction of destinations. The majority of these figures are right in the context of reminding us that in a paper with the bill, it is not the role of tourism's funds to finance transport projects, although they can be used as a means of travel, but they are a special seminar under another department and a special agency. The majority, however, focus on the Ministry to consider as early as possible how to improve the integration of public parties to the development of tourist roads and roads, including the definition of the responsibility and capital of markings, information signs and services to public toilets and the structure of walking procedures. The majority also insist that it is important to consider that the fund's distribution guidelines should be revised in terms of the possibility of long - term financing projects, which are part of the aim for tourism to become profitable, competitive, and sustainable cohesion with land and nation. The majority suggest that the bill be approved. Friðbjörg Peace of Elíasdóttir's daughter, who was absent from the case, signed this opinion in line with 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under the committee's opinion, and this is what it says, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, president of the Committee, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándænsdóttir, Nælíri Friðbertsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörnótirdótir, and Sigurður Páll Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u75	A respectable president. We're here on bill to legalize tourism's policy fund. I'd like to ask you what. An authority, Ásmundur Friðriksson: Is he content, as the committee puts it, to see that there is no access to tourist locations and human constructions, and other access to all? The commission states that when evaluating funds applications, all-trap design should be viewed, and later it says: The greater portion's estimate should be taken into account as to the perspective on absolute design... We know that as the situation exists today, all-trap design is not taken into account. She is not always looked upon in any case in the case of monuments. As a result, it has to be substantiated in the law. Then I see that it is possible for tourists to be traveling routes, riding, and bicycle routes. They can also be wheelchair tracks. Why aren't they there, at least where it will be? We've got to try and fix this in the system. Hv. A prominent speaker must agree with me, and he knows and knows that, unfortunately, those rules are repeatedly broken in man - made engineering. We have to somehow try to nail this and lock it so that when it comes to designing monuments in 2020, we cannot use them, including those in wheelchairs who have so far been unable to use them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I agree with what he said. It is of utmost importance, and it is the spirit of the committee that we are both in, that we see to it that we follow the universal design. There's been a lot of trouble with it. Now we say that we are not going to feel that all - trap design is not taken into account by the government's means of travel or the cost. It is our clear will, and I believe it, and I trust that the words we put on paper give away the commission that it is her spirit. I would also like to agree with what a captain asked me about wheelchair routes. This is where we and our associates are sitting, and we've had a lot of discussions about it. It's our natural clumsiness that we didn't get this into the committee's opinion, and we're sure to take it on both of us. Of course, any walk - and - wheel route should be designed to make it possible for wheelchairs to be used. I realize that it may not be quite possible all the way, but it is of utmost importance that it is always at the top of the minds of people at the repairs of such ways that it can be done. Thus, our words are here used in the discussion and have value for the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson for the answers. But I'd also like to point out this point: We're on a welfare committee together, but I'm not on a professional committee, so I wasn't involved. That's why I'm here trying to share it. I cut this off with my wheelchair routes. I will admit that the day I read that a person who is disabled and in a wheelchair climbed one of the world's highest mountains. How in the world he started to like to hear. It only shows how powerful people are and how rich they are to get into nature. That's why I say we're supposed to hammer it into the law, and I'm hoping we can do it for votes, that inside there's going to be wheelchair routes, because it's so important to give everyone a chance. Of course, we know that wheelchair routes cannot be placed everywhere, but they can be placed in many places. We already see structure like that. on decks where bioavailability is exemplary. If we just focus on it and make sure that all such projects are made so that everyone can enjoy it, then we are on the right track. I really hope that we are finally in that place that we will not leave anyone behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u78	A respectable president. I'll take my heart to my friend's side, boy. paritaprevir Guðmundur Inga Kristinsson, thanking him for what he said. I agree we shouldn't leave anyone behind. I also apologize for teaching him on a professional committee, which is also a good committee even if we do not sit there together. But it's just so nice to sit on a committee with him that I always feel like I'm with him. I agree that projects in the community - whether the way of a bicycle path, a ride, or a ride - should be tried as hard as possible and should always bear in mind that the way is for everyone. I think it's very important. And because of what? The senator mentioned the amazing person who climbed a mountain in a wheelchair, and I'd like to tell him that our fine and good friend, The Gudner Guðjón Sigurðsson, president of the MND Society, once sent me a greeting and said, "What I'm going to do this summer is to go to the Valley of Arnnas, in the mood, and in a parachute jump. I say to people with that kind of thought, who are so determined to live their lives, that we here must do whatever we can to make their dreams come true like our dreams. This requires access to most of us, which is only simpler and easier than the disabled. That is why it is important that our associates'messages into society are that absolute design is the key to making travel routes and other things that the state has cost for everyone and that no one is to leave behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u79	A respectable president. We're here to discuss the tourist position fund. After you hear what you're saying. Although an authority may not be too much to add, it is always possible to add only because we know that among the disabled and the pervaders, there are superpowers that allow no obstacles to stop them. Sadly, though, there are still individuals who are unable to cope with all obstacles. That is why we should make sure that this is not only the ride of bicycles but also the road to wheelchairs. It is often needed, but now is the need for the law of monuments, No. 160/2010, including will be considered on universal design. Sadly, we know from experience that this is not done. And what may be the saddest part of it is that many times is new monuments that fail to meet this requirement and that humans just shrug off. It is not addressed, it is not changed, nor is it arranged for law and order. Unfortunately, it is, and has been, rather than exception to ignoring the law. Therefore, we must make sure that all are able to use their means of transportation and equipment, regardless of their health. I've been dealing with something a little strange, and that's the saddest part of all. There is already rules and a willingness to do things properly and in such a way that the disabled are expected to take advantage of the situation, but it has been forgotten to have a disabled person in a wheelchair with the right design, e.g. About the height, width, and crack of wheelchairs and other lamps. Sadly, this has happened, and it's kind of the saddest of all when things are really being really tried to get things done so that those who need them can take advantage of them, but they can't because they're wrong. The commission points to road construction, which may not be part of this matter, but committees point out that it should, of course, be there too. But we've come to realize that in Iceland not everyone can make it, e.g. to the highlands or other interesting places. This is usually only for selected vehicles. So, unfortunately, there is something else that we need to deal with, i.e. making a road so that those who are equipped for disabled persons can also get up to the highlands, arrive at tourist attractions, and the interesting places there, whether for the enjoyment of camping or just to get into a fishing position, which is very good in many places in the highlands. I'm not gonna have this much further. I believe and trust that there will be no yielding in making sure that any structure at tourist locations will be exposed to anyone who wants to be there, regardless of their health.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u80	A respectable president. I recommend a greater part of the employment committee for a bill to guide travel. The Commission has discussed the case and received to her meeting with Örn Heiðar Einarsdóttir and Baldur Sigmundsson from the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs, Skarphéðinn Bergur Steinarsson and the God-new Valgerður Rún Benediktsdóttir Kristjánsdóttir from the National Socialist, Erlingur Ármannsson of the Union of Icelandic Artists, Henný of the Allied Iceland's Alencommunity, Generdeurdellabor of the National Alliance of Iceland, Aðalsteinn Óskarsson from Iceland, Guðmundur Haukur Guðmundsson of Iceland, Helga of the National Association of the National Institute of the National Social Services of the National Social Services of the National Social Services of the United States. The committee received reviews and talks from the Travel Office, Oceanic Camping Equipment, Federal Protection, the Union of Icelandic rural society, the Association for Travel Services, the Contestant Board, the Western Community and the National Association of Iceland. The bill suggests that governments will be allowed to produce digital access, travel, a sum of 5,000 bucks. to people who were born in 2002 or before and who have an Icelandic social security number. Travel is intended to motivate individuals to travel within the country, but it is expected that the administration will be used by tourists who have a work station in Iceland to meet specific criteria. This is a single - change operation, which is among the defined government's actions to provide economic resistance to the current Covid-19 pandemic. The committee specifically discussed the need to make changes in the direction of raising the amount of travel to an individual. and to be free from taxes. It was observed that the amount of money will be viewed in the context of both legal and tax contributions regulations provided by the bill in Article 3. 1st par. that a person is allowed to give his own travel and that it is permitted to pay with no more than 15 travel donors, a total of 75,000. If the amount of money needed to be looked at by the above, then there is a value on the exception of tax-based instruments based on number 4 of A's panels 7. a law on income taxes. In his review, the Contestance Commission makes a comment to the thresholds submitted to the 5th 2.mg. 1st par. for companies who can receive their travel as payment, i.e. museums and businesses offering a demonstration of pay stress on Icelandic culture, history, or nature. The surveillance rate is a lack of criteria or conditions established by a travel agency when evaluating the suitability of the applicant's activities. The majority of the reports show that the bill refers to such assessments, including the provision of a collection of terms for diffusion of conditions, as well as definitions in other laws and regulations. It has also been shown that, in the light of circumstances, there is a willingness for the arrangement to be interpreted, rather than overcrowded, and thus not to be used as laid out. The handling of the case has requested that the committee be used, e.g. in order to clear the resolution set for 2nd. 1st par. So she's going to take out a party that rents out some out equipment. The majority of the enterprises involved in the enterprise are expected to be based on objective measures for the publication of public resources. The more part of the point is that during the treatment of the case, it is expected that the travel agency will publish a list of the companies who have been paid with the gift letter as well as the sum of the supplied gifts. The bill suggests that the time of travel is from publishing date to 31 December 2020. The reviews of Western and the European Union on the case show the view that it is desirable that the length of time will be prolonged and 31 May 2021, respectively. with a reference to equality between parts of the country and tourism providers. Values time is not in accordance with government policies on advanced whole - wound service, i.e. how to spread the country more freely to tourists, and how to balance the annual fluctuations. Therefore, to support this, it is suggested that the major weight of the winter transport service, i.e. The amount of recreation available is between December and April. In this context, the majority of people want to remind them that the administration is a procedure involving government support, according to Article 61. The EEA Convention. The procedure is a reporting form for the EFTA monitoring centre, as shown in the report on the bill, taking into account the criteria set out in the European Commission's letter on a temporary frame of state support for the economy due to the current Covid-19 pandemic. Among the conditions, help is provided at the latest on December 31, 2020. So the majority of the remaining segments do not feel that they can suggest changes that include a prolonged period of travel. In the handling of the case for the Committee, it was held that it would be necessary to ensure that the administration would not result in a decrease in other payments, such as recovery from government insurance agencies. The majority of these points out that the principle is that only taxable income causes a loss of the income - related benefits or payment given to an individual, e.g. On the basis of social security legislation. With 2 st. The bill is suggested that the administration is not considered taxable in the sense of income taxation laws and is not committed. With reference to this, the object should not be associated with a decrease in income-related combs. The bill suggests that the administration will be delivered by a mobile applet or online payment code. To activate the gift letter, you need to register through Iceland. There were some discussions in the Committee on Personal Protection, which should be taken into consideration when applying the procedure. Personal Protection claims that in its review it does not make comments on the subject of the bill, but the importance of developing and applying the applet and embezzlement on the Internet, as well as the rest of the personality information processing of the bill, is to be taken care of by the law on personal protection and complete processing of personal information. The majority agree with the Persian protection view. It is expected to provide 1.5 billion dollars. This operation. The report on the budget bill adopted in March. According to one estimate, a digital gift letter is published on the basis of a special budget with the objective of encouraging the people of the country to use the transport services of this country in the summer. In his review, the U.S. Governing Body made a comment on the export of the suitcase with reference to indications that other companies who would not have been contacted to provide a similar application on a mobile phone that could have been used during the transfer and distribution of the travel. The Commission requested information from the Ministry on the selection of technical instruments for mobile solution for travel and technical implementation costs. According to the Ministry, the initial analysis of the project was not considered to purchase a digital solution for the letter of donor over the outposts. Thus, prices were sent out to take care of the principles of equality, transparency, and competition among the enterprises thought to provide a technical solution already present and could be used without high cost of development. The objective was to minimise the costs of the project and to initiate it as rapidly and safely as possible in view of the more serious status of tourism companies in the country. The overall cost of developing the small application Traveler is based on information from the Ministry 4 billion. K. The total payment for that enterprise in management, management, services and tourism is also expected to be 8 breakdowns of 8 breakdown11 million. K. Then the Ministry says that the estimated cost of the development of a registration and oversight system in Iceland is 7◯10 million. K. Please note that all software development by Iceland is being carried out following a cross-border agreement with another company, which was most important in the recent state trade invitations, Export 21018 ⇩ Digital Iceland International Team. So I only came to the discussions of the Committee, there was only social security and the concept Šiasak social security number to be discussed. The bill suggests that travel will be given to individuals 18 years of age or older and with an Icelandic social security number. In handling the case for the Commission, a viewpoint on the need for a clearer understanding as to what is included in the term Icelandic social security. As mentioned in the report from the National Book of Iceland, the Icelandic Social Security is registered in two files, national file, and system ID file. National records also list social security numbers of Icelandic citizens who have been living abroad for a longer or shorter time and foreign citizens living abroad. The system ID lists the Icelandic social security numbers, including to be used for the public for commercial authentication, which provides e.g. Not the right to live in Iceland. This type of social security index does not exist. Thus, the majority feel that it would be right to clarify what is meant by the term Šiasak social security, and suggest that, after consultation with the Ministry, be added to the legal requirements in Iceland. These are objective and objective conditions in relation to the purpose of the law. According to the Ministry, this change does not affect costs, but in line with the number of persons expected to use the procedure. So the majority suggest that, in addition to the requirement for administration, it is given to individuals who are 18 years of age or older, i.e. born in 2002 or earlier, with a Icelandic social security number, will be added to the conditions for registered legal homes in Iceland. In view of this, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: ◯ At 1st. 1st par. Added: and with registered legal homes in Iceland Under the heading, write why. Senators, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, who stands, Njáll Friðbertsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson Kristjánnsdótttir, Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjordursson, and Ámundurfurksson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A foreman for the speech. I'd like to ask him how he calculates it that this will cost 1.5 billion, because if we just take the social security number, it's 75,000, and that's 400 million. K. What was the conclusion that this cost was high? And then, if only 75,000 people are expected to receive this, it wouldn't have been normal to have a higher amount, e.g. Fifteen thousand, twenty-five thousand. and ears it rather to those under the middle than to give it to everyone?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u82	Mr. President. I'm assuming there's some misunderstanding about us talking about 75,000 people who are supposed to be given up to 5,000 bucks. If I remember correctly, it's about 280,000 social security numbers, i.e. People were born in 2002 and before. There are some 286,000 people who have the right to do this, and there are also small expenses. This brings us to 1.5 billion behind what is being brought here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. It is true that the total package is 286,000, of which 44,000 have a foreign social security number, foreign citizens who also have a foreign social security number. It is said in the bill that this should apply to those in this country who live here. Something's wrong up there. The question is, What's the right number? Is it true that the committee has no idea how many people are paid for this? There was no comment on how many there were, and what cost? Or is this just a guess?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u84	Mr. President. As we know, the job committee has a good practice. We received precise statistics from Iceland's National Registry on what would fall there, the social landmarks of the people with a legal home in Iceland. Among them are the 242,767 Icelandic citizens and 44,08 foreign citizens. Then comes the figure the senator used earlier. These are the numbers we're working on, and we've got very good national data on this to define this use of Social Security. That's exactly what they suggest in making the adjustment, getting it clear what's normal about that factor. It is this explanation, and it is included in the data from a national file for reference.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u85	President. This is the best part. True, it costs 1.5 billion, a small sum of that money. But if it triggers people to travel throughout the country to a large extent, it is very good. True, if we had taken children from 12 years of age, often paying full cost in places, that would have cost 40 million per year. There wasn't much that added, less than 10%, would have added by doing it. I should have. I'd like to ask you about personal protection. Regarding the tracer that the government went on to help with the spread of infection, people were really looking after themselves. They then took the way of using what they call simply open source, or open software, so anyone can read the code and make sure that personal protection is guaranteed. How is that handled with the apps to be used for this travel?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u86	Mr. President. We examined it. I discussed it on the committee. This number is 223/423 million per year, below 18 years of age. So that's about 400 million. K. which we would be talking about if everyone got a present. [[Up front.]] If we're 12 years old, it's six marches times 22 million, a total of 132 million. It's the numbers we're talking about, and it's all right, because it's so grown that it's very easy to take many threads out of it. There are a variety of ways to go, and just what is normal and which way to go is normal. But that was about 400 million. K. For all the social security numbers were there. I'm not going to go anywhere deeper into it. There is so much to wonder about in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u87	President. The answer to the personal protection question was fine. I have a hunch. The manager does not know the answer, does not know whether or not the app to use has open software. Maybe he'll come up and explain it to you about the protection issues. If you're going to be really careful with your personal protection, you have to have open software. An enterprise is negotiated to do this, be checked, and then a certain company is determined, even if you don't know if it's allowed or legal. You don't know if you have to go to an invitation. That was just what came out on the committee. However, the company was selected. It generates the app. Does it have open software, as is necessary if it is really to protect yourself as far as possible? Of course, if not, Pirats will not put their stamp on this matter. It's good in many ways, but we'll just sit by the vote. But if a layman had done as I wished, to make sure that the personal protection issues were covered, including These, if the Piranians had been in on it. Of course, we cannot when it is not possible to do the best about personal protection, such as having minimally open software.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u88	Mr. President. I'm not gonna tell you that I'm a software expert. I don't know how to answer about this open software. But we have laws in our country, we set a personal protection law in 2018, so I expect it to be applied to the case as for all laws. It is quite clear in the review of Peritoneal protection. It does not in itself make material remarks to the development of the case and how it is thought of by personal protection and personal protection laws, but rather it is to be taken care of by the law of personal protection and the implementation of personal information carefully. That's pretty clear, I think, with Peronour Protection on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u89	They still don't know the app, do they?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u90	V.E.G. President. It's a good thing in itself, but somewhere in the process, what we're talking about here changed from being a traveler to being a gift. I am raised to say thank you, although I cannot always and I would like to know, Mr. President: to whom should I thank for this gift? Who's the giver? Will the entire government sign what Trump does in the West and send it home to us? To whom should I attribute this privilege that is so symbolic that it can hardly be seen? I also ask, "If men were bothering themselves, why was this gift that I wanted to know who gives, not more than 5,000 bucks?"? They don't buy much for 5,000 bucks. In Iceland, those who have little, so I want to know too.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u91	Mr. President. Travel or travel check, this is a greater gift that is like a gift card and is tax free. A check is something you can really use anywhere in business. We know the check subject, so there's only this distinction between that nature. To whom should we thank? The idea, in fact, comes from the travel agency, to go this way with Covid. This is one of the ideas discussed. Aren't we here to accept the gift? She's here. She's approved here. [[The president calls.]] I don't know what it means in itself who's giving what.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u92	V.E.G. President. Yes, terms matter, and I'm going to say it for my part, I'm actually only 1/63 of the people here, that I don't expect to be grateful for this show unless this five-thousand call is torn off my next pay check. Other than that, if I had to take some credit for this approval, I'd feel that I'd rather not be dressed with borrowed feathers. It matters, Mr. President, who is the giver because if the nation is giving it to themselves, it pays naturally for it with its taxes, I think it's much closer to calling it what it is, just a travel check or something, because putting this gift concept on it is extremely clever, Mr. President. This reminds me of what the president of the United States earlier had in mind when he was about to send a check to every American the state paid, who he signed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u93	Mr. President. The use of mind. Will the younger generation in Iceland really know what a check is? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I'm just pointing it out. [[Up front.]] People may know the word gift card better, perhaps it should be more the name. The check subject is less known among younger ones. [[Up front.]] However, I would like to say that this is initiated as a Covid idea to build up a tourist service in Iceland again, to try to get some sort of impulse into that article. The idea comes from tourism, and that's the meaning of the ideologies behind it. Companies may have some incentives against the 5,000 bucks. Ideas appeared in March. We remember the situation in March. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u94	Mr. President. Of course, it's a fine case, and it matters that even though we in the central category have thought that the amount is too low and will go into more detail in the discussion. What I wanted to ask you. A member in particular is that I discussed it at the early stage that I feel that the bill is not allowed to use a travel check to rent out, e.g. Caring equipment, hikers, tent, etc. used to travel. I want it past you. Councilman: Why is e.g. Couldn't use the check to rent a tent or a footwear so that those who want to travel through the country can use it as cheap as possible? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u95	Mr. President. If the amount was raised by about 5,000 bucks. we would be talking about 3 billion more, and if you went to $15,000. That would be 4.5 billion. I spoke earlier when I went through my majority opinion on certain grounds. There are certain vacation groups in the tourism service, that this will be out of the question in some ways. So it's only set up for museums. Then, everything, like I said before, is very open that has to do with the transfer. You can go in a lot of different directions. It would also have been possible to narrow it down, and some have talked about more narrowing, directing people to some of the tourism services that would lead to further use where people were actually traveling. Like I say, it's very open in that respect. It's easy to talk about 5,000Ks, all of us understand, but we may find it harder to do if we're talking about hundreds of billions of dollars in the context of the parts.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u96	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator, but he did not answer why the prescription or gift cannot be used in order to rent e.g. tent, camping or walking equipment, etc. I think it's a question of who we Icelanders are when we start to define it this way. Hv. A senator says it's very open. There's nothing open when you can't rent that simple device. You can rent a rental car, and you can rent a GPS with rental cars, but you can't rent a GPS by yourself to go for a walk. It couldn't be equal among companies in this respect, so I think that's what it is. A senator must consider just what evidence is behind it. Not everyone can afford to go up on a glacier or a horse or something like that, and some just want to travel in as cheap as possible and be encouraged by the travel process. [[The president calls.]] However, like renting the equipment I mentioned, it cannot be used for less expensive means of transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u97	Mr. President. It is stated in the opinion of a greater part of the employment board, and I entered into it earlier in my speech, that at the decomposition of the enterprises which are authorized by the project, objective measures are expected to be based on the publication of public permits. That's the right point, official permission related to this. This is shown in paragraph 1. The bill is what goes with it. So it could have been even more open, but it had to be reserved somewhere. This is a bit, these are certain licenses as I came in earlier, and have little to add. That's what it says. What we're talking about falling below are published permission related to travel services in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u98	Mr. President. I recommend a board of committees with a new proposal for the bill presented here and is discussed and it's said to be for travel. I have to admit that I'm having a bit of a hard time taking that word into my mouth, and I think it's so random and lame that I can hardly really talk. However, the subject of the bill is suggested that governments be authorized to issue a travel check for a quarter of 5,000 dollars. to people who are born in 2002 or before and who have an Icelandic social security number and home in Iceland. The travel receipt will be useful for companies with a Iceland work station to match the specified restrictions in the bill. The bill is proposed to help the government to promote the economy and to reduce negative effects on the job life as a result of the virus epidemic and to encourage Icelanders to travel in the country and to provide the economy, and particularly tourism, resistance. The smaller part supports the primary objective of the bill, as it has been traced here, while the memory considers the urgent questions about various aspects of the bill, such as the range of values and targets, and already has several. Parliamentaries took these factors into account. In terms of the value range of the bill, there seems to be a lack of equalness, as shown by the example that prescriptions for a car are permitted rather than from a tent. I'm going to say, because of the attitude that there was no equal rights, I've felt it at committees on the job board, to form by then. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, I was hoping in the longest law that the greater part would correct the bill in that respect. The range of ages set at 18 years does not take into account the family of children. At the same time, the lesser part describes in its minority opinion that some social groups will likely be able to benefit from the benefits of health or financial situation. As I mentioned at the outset, my share would be more correct and normal to teach the matter when it comes to travel. So it was presented initially, off the top of it was a travel check bill, but by some powers that I am not visible or understandable in all respects, changed the subject, and became a guide for travel. The minority of members of the European Commission notes that in recent years, tourism has provided high income, variety, and many well - paying jobs, foreign currency in currents, as well as the activities of tourism across the country contribute to the maintenance of the country's affairs. We likely feel that the tourism services are going to do all of this again as soon as there is no more effect of a pandemic. We're the ones who ship the smaller parts, we're the ones. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson, however, believes that the sum of travel checks would have had to be higher so that the action in the bill would be more than symbolic, as it has been described by the rulers here, so that it can use the travel service as a lifter in the difficult situations she faces. In view of this, the lesser part feels correct and reasonable that on the part of the government, the article will be given more powerful support, which some would call an injection to the person expected by the bill. We represent the Central Party at what point. Thus, the employment committee suggests that the sum of the travel check will be raised from 5,000 bucks per cent. in 15,000, which we believe would remember for the article but also take into account difficult conditions in the state of government. I'd like to see that we middle-class members are going to be talking about some of the money that's supposed to be short of us making a proposal for special funding to survive this elevated amount of travel check. Similarly, we feel that some of it would also be with economic management. So says in the opinion of my share, by permission of the President: To this respect, the less part contributes to the approval of the bill by the following change: Instead of the amount of money, ◯5,000 a.m. at 1 mg. 1st par. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, it's Under the words of Ólafur, Ísleifsson of Isafas, and Sigurður Páll Jónsson, the Bible says: "Look!
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u99	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the review of the Committee opinion. In fact, I find it interesting that the middle class members hang themselves a little bit on whether the bill is called a check or a gift, more than the content itself, i.e. for what the game is made. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson covered it very closely earlier, but not a check, which I think is perhaps less important than why we're doing it, what the meaning is. What I wanted to do was to get in. The candidate to follow is two, first of all, what was discussed only earlier on whether the contents should be changed above the head, i.e. That the amount was 5,000 bucks. for people born in 2002 and before. This is where the Central Party proposes, if I understand this correctly, that it's the same group as the case, unless it's 15,000 bucks. on you. I wondered if it wasn't more of an option for the Central Party, like what. The head of more than one section mentioned above, to suggest that all age groups get this, that would be for the whole country, rather than just raising up on the underest. Secondly, this is a policy of equality, i.e. the amount of money you can obtain from these or from those who sell equipment or other items. Does the senator think that it is possible to have a complete list of members there? [[The president calls.]] In view of the emphasis, would it not have been desirable for the media to offer them suggestions?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u100	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I want to start by saying that it's not the biggest issue of whether the bill has a gift or a check, and I emphasized it in my background, which was mainly about the subject. The other may be mentioned, to add that discussion, that giving of gifts in public money can be done with words. If they might want to call them a gift, where, in reality, public funds are being reassigned, of course, for me. But, hey. A senator asked about the points that have been discussed here. The committee stated that there are reasons, including some. by technical means and by a more complex family pattern than before in Icelandic society, the age limit. I heard the discussions and viewpoints that were involved in raising the money, perhaps to some extent being met by family members but perhaps not entirely. I see the light is starting to blink so I'm going to save myself until [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u101	More than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u102	in the second answer to the other aspect of the subject, which was made in question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u103	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Of course, there are primary points to the arrangement we are considering here, such as so many other things. I realize that it is not just index families to discuss today, as the tradition may have been before. As a result, it can be a primary factor in the use of the gift of a family, etc. I think I know the discussion was the one. The same may also apply, such as why. A senator mentioned that it doesn't solve everything even if the sum is raised, i.e. to parents who have children in two homes. I would have preferred that it was just for everyone instead of seeing it rise. But the other might be what it's all about, i.e. that, as most people take advantage of this, that as many people as possible land, and those they that they can't do, they may be able to employ their family or friends or how they are now or how they can get their money to work. I think it's very important, both to, of course, those who enjoy it, i.e. the countries that travel and then the transport companies. But the big thing is, I wonder: Is it possible to have a complete count on all the entertainment underneath? Can a tourist living room or someone else take that assignment? It refers to the devices that can be rented and equal in it, and therefore I would like to see, in view of the fact that it is the main criticism of the Central Party, that his members had made an attempt to prove that it was possible to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u104	Mr. President. I'm going to let me say that I think a working-mutation might be useful. I don't think there's some kind of evidence on us Middle-class people. This is a government bill, and the government has its entire expert building, the Ministry and the institutions behind it, and, of course, is on a much better way to solve the technical problems that have been raised here as a subject for discussion. A professional health committee. It may be more important for the administrative part to do that work. Of course, what is the main point of the minority opinion is that with the suggestions presented here to raise it from 5,000 k. In 15,000, the situation is changed in nature. It is converted to a much more economic operation. With the triple amount of money here, a much more significant and more potent article is supported by an article that has fallen under this virus, an article that has, as I discussed in my background, and is discussed in the minority view, was a carrier and a source of energy in the Icelandic economy, and has the full potential to become one again. The amount of money involved here is natural simply a violation of the amount of money that the article has introduced into a Icelandic population in the form of earnings, high-paying jobs, foreign currency, and in the form of which it is the article that has the best chance to ensure that everything in the country is built. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u105	Mr. President. It's good to hear that the travel or travel check is not the main thing, otherwise we would have to spend some time on it. [[Up front.]] A little bit, but I don't think it matters. I've explained. In terms of time, we are actually living up to what our international agreements expect with this date, December 31, as I came in earlier. She'll have the force through it. About 15,000 dollars. I just want to talk about the importance of tourism for the nation's economy, as I have often done here, and what this has really changed the economy of Iceland and economic factors, especially from 2010 when 500 thousand tourists arrived in the country. Last week or last week, the use of foreign tourists in Iceland was reported to have been 284 billion last year. It's outside the Icelanders, except for the flight. These are the numbers. These are huge amounts, and we won't provide any Icelandic travel services for the trip, we won't fill it with a hole. It involves much larger operations, such as water. A senator knows, through the Covid procedures that are actually involved in employment markets, employment and partial reforms and such things. Perhaps that's what has come to the travel service what has been best about her business. It runs at billions of dollars. I want to ask you why. A senator: He believes, then, that raising the travel to 15,000 bucks would maximise the use of about 10,000 bucks. on each social security number, 18 years of age and older, about 3 billion? That it would be the height limit of the public money, to increase it instead of making market campaigns abroad or other factors where the same amount will be new, 1.5 billion in that market? It's about using and maximising the use of public funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u106	Mr. President. I have to start by thanking you. paritaprevir To answer from Njáll, the Trausti of Friðbertsson. I haven't done anything to talk about it. I am aware that we are sold under European rules here, and it follows that rules require that it go to 31st December. There are no differences to which I should know. I'm glad I didn't. paritaprevir The Náll of Trausti Friðbertsson illustrates the importance of tourism for an Icelandic national setting. In fact, I don't know a man who has more and more often pointed out the importance of making his flight as a professional branch in Iceland, who is well aware of his former careers before he took up residence at the General Assembly. Of course, it's the common objective of all of us, I suppose, that this important sector of tourism, and including flying, will succeed. The sum of this figure - of course, this number, 5,000 call, nothing sacred, no more than 15 thousand, is some sacred number. It's nothing of that. We, however, point out that this amount is so low. She has become a bit of a laughing matter in many places where she has been heard, but she would not be if she went up to 15,000. In view of the importance of the article and the contribution it made over the past few years, these numbers are, of course, very low. [[The president calls.]] I allow me to hope that the members of Congress will join us in this proposal to support it in its own time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u107	Mr. President. I'd like to come in at about 5,000 bucks. The money and what we talked about in the majority opinion earlier. It actually just turns to taxables and sources for expeditation, i.e. The tax responsibilities on the case. That's 5,000 bucks. and then a person can use 15 transfers, a total of 75,000. There are certain views in the committee that have to do with that point. 5,000 bucks, 15,000 bucks, 50,000 bucks. We talked about this. You can go that way forever, but about 5,000 bucks. Fifteen thousand. Travelers have it to do with income taxation, as I came in earlier, and other taxables and such factors. But I do believe that the main thing in this is that it's just fine and the most important thing is to get this industry back on its feet. It's very important to us. And if people think that this is a small amount of 5,000 bucks, it's the least they can do to bring a person or a person with 5,000 bucks, if it's so little money that people don't think it's important. I tell people to continue giving them the gift, move it to the individuals who may have more to do with it, and find 5,000 bucks. be something today, if it seems like a great amount, as it happened by a dog. Senator. I think 5,000 bucks. nothing funny little money. [[The president calls.]] She may then be given to someone who is more important than the person.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u108	V.E.G. President. It is not a question of whether the money is this way or the other, what they want to say about it. Of course, she's not very high. She doesn't push too far. But I have to say, I let myself hope at the scene. A committee would do a little more to improve the bill. At the same time, all human works can always be improved. We were able to make up a different picture of the import of an animal we discussed today, how much that matter improved in the environ ment after a meeting between the 2nd and 3rd districts. and direct experts to discuss that with the approved bill there is no threat to the transmission and control. In this matter, the most important change is the limit to having a legal home in this country. It was followed by very clear and sharp indications from the probable national registry, so I think maybe the bill could have improved in the technical materials involved. But I thought it was our job, as I have stressed before, to emphasize more of the economic aspect of the case by making this matter so that it really meant a great deal to the industry. [[The president calls.]] That's what counts.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u109	A respectable president. We are dealing with travel, or these unprecedented rubber checks, as they may have been for some people. We were wondering if young people today knew what a check was. I don't think it knows what a rubber check is. We used to make fun when we were young so that we could tear down the rubber check, undress our coat, and blow up the Chinese. However, the type of travel taken by Covid is that of checking in tourists, including flights, and not many people are wearing coats to travel. But what may be the most remarkable thing about this marvelous check, or perhaps the only good thing that can be said right away is that it is not taxable. As a result, it does not impair disability, which is very low, as we know. I began to wonder where they could go, the poor people who get paid $115,000. In a month, at the commandment of the State, when they receive this marvelous 5,000 hen. check. I began to check. If they think of just hanging out with a bus, there's a problem. I already sent a query to the highest level. Transporter accessors, because they are now going to buy and renew the streets of the country, to see if they are accessible to the disabled. Today, it may not be easy for them to be above their heads and that even the person in a wheelchair will be able to make it to a bus. But if he now makes it to the bus - he needs to be held in or he gets in by himself - where does he get to for 5,000 bucks?? Yes, he could, but he had to stop there. If he was going to go back to Reykjavík, he would be unable to go any further. If he goes north, he'll get to the sheep's roost. He wouldn't make it to Akureyri because it's $3.250 for disability and senior citizens. To get back, he would have to contribute certain amounts of money. If he went south, he'd make it to a church town without a trace. That's $2,516. for older people and disability to get there. Then comes another situation, let's say he goes into an optimistic state and decides to hit the sheep's bed. He knows that this is the end of the gift, but he could use rest to get something back. But there is a matter of staying, what is the post for the disabled in the country? I spoke of a sheep's jar. I have no idea what the situation is. And how much for the lodging? I thought to myself, " A person who has 215,000 bucks. ' During a month, you will not be able to choose some luxury lifestyles. I'm asking myself if the highest. Realizing this, one authority has thought about how that person should use it and how he might find a place to stay because I doubt that he can go back and forth in one day, though it is probably possible. Since then, it has been shown that we can use the transport of cars in all kinds of rents, even through rentals and even rent out equipment to travel through certain offices and groups can accept checks, but those who are only renting tents, repair equipment, or fishing bars can't take them because they are not registered correctly, which is a strange example. So let us also consider: Why on earth are we giving e.g. With me and 63 in this councilroom of this travel check? I'm asking myself. Of course, if we wanted and were really urging others to travel, we should try to focus on it and encourage the most traveling brothers who cannot afford it. How can we do that? Hv. One authority was just saying that if we had that 15,000 or 20,000 k. it would cost three times more, if I doubt it. We also need to realize that when we're talking about the total number of people to use what we were talking about, about 280,000 people, there's a large amount abroad. I'm convinced that it would be good if half of the number could use this because many people are enrolled abroad and they don't come to use it. But, yes, they could. But we also ask: Can they sell the check? Can those with little money buy it? Is there something that could prevent someone who is planning to go away trying to collect 15 checkes? That's 75,000. Then there is an entirely different situation for a sheep's river. He could certainly find a place to stay, that's definitely for sure. It's just a question of how good an access would be to that rooming. We also know that for ordinary people on the average labor wage in the country, which is not high, only just over 300,000 dollars, this check would be important. I saw a family of four leaving, e.g. To the Akureyris, there may be some 6,000, 7,000 dollars to stay there. Night. I don't know what that bedside is, but in a four-man family, it's probably two adults with 10,000 bucks. in checks and two children, so that one and a half nights' administration, even two, would be sufficient if the occasion provided a discount for the check. I also wondered that there was no sign. Imagine taking an average wage in the country, which is just over 700,000 bucks, and having given it a higher amount than only those under that average would have received it. That would have worked better. I think it's kind of weird that we should be giving this to everyone. If we put it in context too, that 5,000 bucks. A check is 1/4 of what we, in our human kindness here, agreed to provide for microorganism by Covid, which was 20,000 k, that's all the things they've put in question for Covid. Yet, food and other aspects of it have greatly increased. This may be most historic in that it is the first and only thing the government does for older citizens, that 5,000 bucks. check, in all the Covid cases. Nothing else has been done for older citizens. It's both the government and us here at the council to be disgraced. We know that many older citizens are doing a really good job, but we also know that many of them have it totally dirty, and they need to be helped. But we've done it only with this 5,000 bucks. check. I'm still realizing if we should scream at it or not because in most cases it might be enough for two pizzas, with luck, or one meal. Based on what we have seen here, the population of Icelanders in large groups will travel abroad, and considering that those who are importing tent cars, shelters, and trailers are not around, the carriages are sold before they come into the country, we see that there is a large group of people who have good things to go through the country and intend to do it. And I say for my part, to give them a ride, I don't think it's necessary. But I'm asking if it wouldn't be a national option to enter the bill, for example. It's Iceland's Scaring Association. It could just gather them up and then share out with those who really need them. I think it would be much better, and I can't see in any way that these 1.5 billion will come out. I think we can thank you for the fact that half of the money is returning out, and then I'll say for the least part that we'll use the rest, if it's gonna be, for those who need it. It's, for example. the money can be distributed through the Department of Environment and the older citizens' organization. You could make a travel fund for those groups, I think that would be national advice. But as I say, in many ways the bill is amazing. I fear that will not bring back what was expected. It would have been better if there had been more to it and the amount had been higher. I heard, and I don't sell it more expensive than I bought it, in the news, that the Japanese will give a gift to every citizen there. They were even, I think, talking about paying half of the flight expenses and half the hotel room for the tourists who were going to come there. If that's true, it's a real force to get things done. But I am not so gross as to expect. I would have only, in fact, demanded, that those who have least, and least of all can travel more than the rest of us who can afford and can afford to travel, receive nothing. That is how righteousness should be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u110	President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize travel, but more than a part of the job committee is expected. As indicated in the opinion of the committee, it discussed the matter quite extensively and was contacted by a number of visitors. Although the discussion of the committee has actually taken an incredibly short period of time and even though the matter may be of little importance, it seems that there is much more to it than at first seems to be. I believe that the criticism that came from the Ministry is not quite fair, that we were delaying the case, because we have actually dealt with it and have arranged it for an incredibly short period of time compared to everything. It is a matter that is good in many respects, and I support its main objective. That's, by the way, two birds are being hit in one blow, i.e. It is under way to strengthen national tourism and make it easier for Icelanders to travel through the country during the summer, which must be positive. It's just a little fun this summer to be able to travel around their country, around our country, and be alone in it. Yes, Iceland may be lucky to this summer, although the reasons are natural tragedy and the consequences are also tragic. With this bill approved, the government will be allowed to issue a digital deposit of 5,000 dollars. to people who were born in 2002 or before and who have an Icelandic social security number. As we have seen, this is moving a total of 1.5 billion dollars. to Icelanders, aged 18 and over, and from them to tourism companies who truly need support, as we know. This, however, is one of the more complex matters they seem to be. Simply, there were too many questions I thought there was still some question that left me so that I could be at the committee party at the end of the section. As mentioned above, e.g. The question is, should we have cleared the 2nd section further? 1st par. so it would take e.g. to the person who rents out the outdoor equipment, or so that all museums and businesses offering a remuneration demonstration would have fallen under this. However, it is possible to ask, " Is the move too bed as it is today and whether it should have been reserved only for host service and tourism? ' Then a very interesting comment was made in the West Coast and the European Union to the Committee to Longevaluate Time to and May 31 of the next. Thus, it would have been possible to extend the duration of the travel to the next winter and thus support a variety of winter travel services, which are down through the summer period of nature. The evaluation of the majority of the committee, as noted in the work committee, was that this was a de facto State help, and it was difficult to make such changes. But I still believe that this subject had been worth examining, perhaps. a little better, as much as it is necessary to support our winter trip, which we have just put a lot of powder in building up in recent years. As we have seen, and it came out of the question. An authority, raised questions with the Commission's discussion of how good personal protection could be achieved in the intended apps. It's also true whether it would have been reasonable to make use of just Iceland. As well as whether it had been necessary, if it had been normal, to offer out the project. President. As noted in the Summit's list of parts, the Committee discussed whether there is a reason to make changes in the way of increasing the money of the travelers and why they were not doing so. However, I feel that I have lacked a bit of the committee's opinion of the greater part of the discussion that also took place, i.e. whether it had been a reason to expand the check in such a way that all Icelanders, regardless of their age, would receive it. It would certainly increase the total amount of money for the donor, but it would have been ◯win win, excuse me, Mr. President. This would have been positive for travel, but most important, it would have been to be better able to meet families with children who might then have been able to do so. this summer, there's more to it. This, in my opinion, would have made the matter better and could have ensured the support of the Group of Congress on the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u111	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. Of course, this is a matter of special importance to tourism and will hopefully, as our goal, stimulate our important sectors of employment, which have been seriously affected by the viral epidemic as we know it. The aim is to help Iceland and others with an Icelandic social security number within the country. Besides traveling around the country we hope most people will do for the summer, they'll be expected to buy services on the way too, so this involves a little more than a series of stimulations that are very important at this point. I'm going to go in a little bit more afterwards on the actual amount of $5,000, which we in the Central Party don't think is high enough. We will move a change proposal to raise that amount. The organization of tourism has particularly emphasized that this amount is not enough, but it welcomes it, and, of course, it is important, as I mentioned. That's why you should be grateful for that. The bill is part of the government's carry-on action package and includes fighting back what has happened to us in the economy as a result of the viral epidemic, and especially, as mentioned, in the case of tourism, which is almost useless. It's very special, Mr. President, to travel the country now. I was on my way to the weekend in the Southland, and there are very few cars on the road, few cars on the road, and a great change from before the epidemic. So it is clear that when you travel around the country, you can see the tangible in this important article, how serious it is that has paid huge currency in recent times, grown, and been a professional person. The journey was introduced in one of the government's operations panels for the virus epidemic and was the first to remind me of and to be one of the government's counterweight actions. It aims to increase transport within the country, thereby supporting national tourism companies. It is presented as a source of strength to travel within the country, and it is a direct support for Icelandic tourism, so the procedure is symbolic and yet important. The aim is to stimulate demand and encourage Icelanders and others with an Icelandic social security number to travel within the country during the summer. Of course, we have expectations for the decision. Companies need to sign up to receive the check from the government or this 5,000 bucks. The amount and we hope that, of course, all companies in the tourism sector do. When we look at them, there is also the expectation that if they can afford it and provide some form of offer, they may also become involved in some form of tourism. I think it matters, and hopefully they'll have time to do that, and that's where the motivation really gets bigger and so the amount goes up to each person. In this way, it would be possible to make more of the move if an offer comes from the most desirable traveling workers. This transport is to stimulate the economy and is a good way to do it. To move the microchip 20,000 bucks. In addition at the beginning of summer, it was similar with regard to spending that amount, buying goods and services, and thus inducing the economy. We have noted that it may have been wise to think also of older citizens, to give them an opportunity to stimulate the economy by giving them some additional money for the viral epidemic. We haven't made it, and I think it's right to mention it here because the purpose is the same, whether it's a tourist, a payment to groups like an invalid - and so the older citizens should have been there to my judgment in this process - simply to stimulate the economy. The transport agency sent in a review of the bill, and they want to highlight the importance of getting the suitcase into use as soon as possible, and that's what I want to do because all technical solutions need to work really fast and well. One thing may be criticized in the government's list of measures: Many of the actions have come too late and been on the way for all kinds of delays, as an example. Precious time and precious value will be lost when this cannot be accomplished quickly. That's a big point. Besides, I think it's a good thing that people who don't intend to use it can give it to others. That's a good thing, and it's important. I'd like next time, Mr. President, to come to that amount only. We in the Middle East believe it needs to be higher, at least Fifteen thousand. The transport services focus on this, and this is just so that the higher the travel process, the more likely the travellers go further, do more, and even travel more frequently. A traveller puts more money into the economy as he gets more for travel. It has a bearing on more fields, and even if it costs more money to raise the amount, it brings back more. It is important to bear in mind. If it is higher, it will be more likely that the person living in Reykjavík will go further to the country and destroy his travel and then his own money back. All positive factors linked to raising the amount, the importance of tourism, and the entire economy. The transport service organization is measured to allow a minimum of 15,000 dollars to be administered. a gift that actually corresponds to one night's stay with breakfast in travel service. I think it would be most desirable that this way would be gone and would be encouraging a world of Congress to accept the central Party's proposal for an increase of 10,000 bucks. ... at 15,000K. This is important and must be considered in view of the importance of your injection in more articles, such as in services and shops. It works together so that the increase in the amount is very effective, to my judgment, and should have been examined within the committee. We'll see, for example. that large amounts of money were taken into the part-change process, more than 30 billion, and then it turns out that people were making use of the means that they did not need it and that they really did not have the right to it, according to the Law, and the Government Accounting has identified it. That's why I say it would have been easier to put less money on that route than more because it would have strengthened the region and the whole country's tourism in an important way. The fact that Iceland is traveling within the country for some summer is crucial to its tourism and is extremely important to it and can, in many cases, prevent the failure of individual companies. That is why it is very important that we do well here. A travel agency believes that the procedure will almost certainly have a so - called snowball effect. The review says that a person using the administration to pay for services will probably buy other services from different companies, including non-employed companies. That's exactly a very important point, and that's why I think it's very important to raise the amount because it will help. In view of the natural cost of traveling in Iceland, the way has been criticized for the low amount of money, which is understandable and entitled. The higher the amount, the more encouraging it will be in Iceland to travel within the country. The relationship between Icelandic rural society and West Coast has described its joys with the bill, and their reviews state the same comment that it also discusses the short duration of years, as well as the need to consider that the winter lies ahead, and it can become difficult in many areas in the coming autumn months and in the coming winter if tourists do not come to the country to the extent of importance. In addition, it is true that in a few years, international tourism has changed dramatically. There has been an enormous development in tourism, and those Icelanders who may have done little of traveling in the country and buying services from the Icelandic tourist service are sure to be surprised at how successful they are. I really hope that those who come to take advantage of this provision and travel within the country will be pleased with the welcome they receive from the Icelandic tourism services and the quality and services available there. And I'm convinced everyone will be. In addition, it may be normal for a company to look at the goods. We realized that the market for Icelanders is a little different from that of foreign tourists. In common, I think this may increase the domestic market this year and the next few years because the Icelanders will hopefully get to know their own tourism better. I just wanted to say what I mentioned in the counter, which I feel is a flaw at the bill, that you can't use the check to rent a travel equipment, such as. tent, sleeping bags, location equipment, and so on. An Icelandic Camping Equipment company that rents out the hardware sent in a commission to the Committee and complained that the check was not valid for camping equipment and walking equipment. I have to say, I'm very surprised because it's not equal. I said in answer to a check for rental cars, and you can rent a GPS, a location device, with the cars. But it can't be rented specifically in those companies that rent out camping equipment, where they can't rent a GPS, so equality is not being maintained in this regard. And now it's just the way it is, Mr. President, that not everyone has a lot between their hands to travel but would love to travel in the summer and then in a cheap way and rent a tent and a sleeping bag. This check, however, is not possible. So I have to say, it's disappointing. I specifically mentioned it in 1st. The matter, hoping for it, was directed to the committee that it would discuss it specifically. But it has, unfortunately, not changed what I am now a little surprised at. The Committee's list of my section's members, as follows, is entitled to the President's permission: In terms of the bill's set of values, there seems to be a lack of equal justice...◯ An example of how to make arrangements for renting a car rather than for a tent may be allowed. I'll agree with that in my section. Hv. Councilmen Ólafur Ísleifsson and Jónsson, central class, sign that opinion and rightly point to this. It would have made better sense to have been handled and allowed to rent repair equipment. Not everyone can afford to buy a place to stay, travel with a trailer or like that, and perhaps just want to travel in a simple way, like the good old tent trips, and many people have enjoyed it over the years. It would have been most desirable for me to be able to use the check, 5,000 bucks, to rent a tent for himself. But this is the conclusion, and I would surely have wanted another conclusion in this regard. Overall, the matter is important, and the middle party supports it. On the other hand, we would have liked to see an increase in the progress of 5,000 bucks. ... at 15,000K. and will convey the adjustment proposal of the subject, which I hope the world will support because it will have a multiple effect. It will make it possible for people to go further, travel farther around the country, and buy the more services that will motivate all the economy that we all benefit from because it is extremely important, Mr. President, that we will do everything we can to restore this important industry to the backway, it has suffered enormous losses, and, in the same way, for the entire economy because of the fact that this article has paid us a significant amount of currency and makes much of national preparation. That is why we should stick together in an effort to stimulate these important sectors by any means available.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u112	A respectable president. I want to come up here and celebrate this good thing. After listening to some of the talks earlier, I can't put up with words. I think most people have managed to say in their speech that the matter was good, even though all kinds of things could have been found to prevent it. But let us remember that this is very good. It supports families and homes in the country to travel within the country. But there is also an important support for our largest industry, which is also in all the most trouble at present, i.e. Tourism. We know that the operation will not change everything for the article, but it is symbolic and will have certain avalanches. When I heard in speeches today that, on the one hand, none of those who did not need help and that the amount was too low, I felt that it was a little bit of a twin. It is said that the expansion in the law - or rather, the stifling of it - needs to be extended. The most fun discussion was whether this should be a check or a gift. I think a check is just a extinct thing. I think there's even a story on the evidence that the checks are extinct in Iceland. A new generation has no idea what a check is. Yes, a new generation would probably know a gift card, but we go even further and make it an electronic solution. Obviously, this is a gift, regardless of how one might define it, and some may feel a sense of despondency. At the same time, however, the amount is too low too, so it seems to be a little difficult to meet all the conditions that have been presented to members of the council. But I think the big thing is just, and that's what we're supposed to remember, that this is a good thing. It's important that we do so today because we need to see these checks, estates, gifts, get into the hands of families in the country as soon as possible so people can enjoy traveling throughout the beautiful Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u113	A respectable president. I recommend a committee party, from what? The Economic and Business Committee, about a bill called a bill for official support for investments in wands and innovation companies. The Commission, of course, was asked to meet with a representative of the employment and innovation agency, along with other sources; Nasdaq, the Riding Systems Association, Eyri Invest, representatives who came to shape innovation policy and also received written reviews from a number of parties. It's all on the council site. The bill is suggested to set up a special sceptre and innovation fund, Krea, which is the task of investing in index funds specialised for investment in sceptical and innovation companies. The aim of the fund has to promote the growth and competitiveness of Icelandic employment by promoting the active funding environment for the sceptical and innovation enterprises. The creation and the practicality of intelligence are essential to a wide range of employment, strong competitiveness, economic growth and well - being of nations, especially in the light of the changes in society expected in industry and education because of rapid technological change. The new development policy for Iceland, published in the fall of 2019, stresses the need for a simple work environment of sceptical and innovation companies, promoting musculoskeletal systems, increasing access to capital and foreign experts, and supporting international application. The bill contributes to the above goals but is suggested to set up a special sceptre and innovation fund, Krea. The committee points out the importance of the early start of the business of Korea, and the fund has enough money to carry out tasks. This is an important factor in the release of innovation, in line with the aim of increasing the variety of jobs. The Committee discussed a little whether it was necessary to allow the fund to have a specific advance on the financing. It is assumed that people have gathered money from private sources and can then receive this support from the State. Our discussion will be considered in the Committee, but the conclusion is not to make changes in the bill in this regard. We feel, however, that it is important that the government reviews it in its founding accounts that it is possible to obtain freeness for investments, a statement from the government, provided that the budget is obtained from private sources. An interesting comment from Nasdaq Iceland, which we appreciate in the Commission opinion, was also made that other investors in specialized funds offered to purchase a predetermined share of Kía on predetermined terms after a certain period of time had passed when the initial investment period of the fund was completed. Nasdaq made comments on that. The committee believes that such a sale is incompatible with the objective of the government and the purpose of the bill. It is the goal, not to maximise interest by the budget laid for the innovation of the environment, but to promote the structure and healthy growth environment. By doing so, the State will avoid being a direct involvement in venture investments. It may be inaccessible for private investors at later level in business that a public person has a direct or indirect interest in the decisions he or she makes regarding individualenterprises. Orders were considered only. Some comments showed that this was true. The Committee wants to justify the importance of the report on the bill, that, in the management board, people with clear knowledge and experience in investments, sceptical and innovations, and other aspects of the management of the fund and that the composition of knowledge officials will be in a position to have a good and broad understanding and perspective on the work of the fund. Two. Section 3. The bill says that a government generally makes decisions on investments in specialized funds once a year. In its review of the Riding Systems Association, the organization stressed that it might be unwise to limit it to its once - in - a - year regimen. There were differences in interpretations of the meaning of this expression. The Commission does not consider the need to determine the rate of decision-making in the law but rather to make decisions in accordance with the needs and motives of the fund. In addition to the flexibility of the fund to work in a quick environment, investments are further encouraged by new funds. As members of the Committee, we make the following adjustment: ▪ At four o'clock. Add a new paragraph, as follows: Decisions govern Kía ◯ sceptre and innovation funds under these laws are final at the administrative level. We suggest a change of the bill's headline that it will be: It is clear and clear about what this is all about. Under the heading, the one quoted here, Brondís Haraldsdóttir, Jón Steindór Kárason, Valdimarsson Valmímsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Jandny Harðardóttir Harderdóttir, Smári Mccarthy, Brabbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, and Willum Þórsson Tursson. A respectable president. That's when I've been getting really high on the committee opinion. As you can see, I think I can speak for all of us on the committee. We agree with this opinion, and we believe this is an important step in promoting the national innovation environment. I'd like to compromise my opinion on the matter. The plans for the government to invest over a period of several years in index funds to meet private investors are shocking. I think that's very important. This is actually an incentive for private investors to come and invest in funds, funds, which invest in innovation companies. In this way the State can contribute to the building of the index and funding environment for innovation in cooperation with the market. Of course, this approach is well - known in a international language, whether in the northern, other European, or Israel. In many places, governments have decided to build access to index levels by making it easier for an institution of such funds. I also think it's important to know that, of course, we have a new fund and other tools in our support environment. But this is only another approach when talking about investing in such funds as investing in innovation companies. For most people, the growth of international intelligent industry is a key factor in maintaining our quality of life for the future. These jobs are based on intellectual, global, and knowledge from specialized staff rather than on limited resources. Their design is determined by the need for a powerful ecosystem of innovation and infrastructure. There's schools, research institutions, pioneers, and then funding a key role. That's why I think it's a very important institution for all of us. We are dealing with this bill in the wake of a number of measures taken by the government by Covid. I would like to stress that this is not a big deal about Covid and the situation we are in right now. This was a very important matter for Covid, but it may not be as important now as it is in our secular life. A respectable president. I think there is also reason to go over that the government has, of course, done a great deal in promoting the innovation environment. In the last few years, we have greatly increased the number of taxes and reimbursements due to research and development. We have increased the resources of pensions to invest in innovations and indicators, which have long been fought for and are considered very important to promote powerful innovation and innovation. We've come to a simple rule. I think it is very important, and equally important for SMEs who are taking their first steps, having simple and clear regulations. Also important is that the management board is as much electronic as we have been contributing to the digital Iceland of Iceland. We are particularly concerned with creative articles. It is not long ago that we reduced taxes on penalties and thus show that mental works are comparable to other works. I know that taxation led to great satisfaction in the arts and cultures of the cowards. I think that's going to mean a lot to us for the future. We've put a considerable amount of money into the New World Fund of students. We've put more money into the Food Fund, which is to promote innovation in the area of food production. Here we discussed Energy Fund and the important tasks he is given, climate innovation by contributions to Climate Fund, national parishion Plans, increased contribution to Technical Development Fund, and so on. A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this further, although it would be possible to keep a long number on the importance of innovation and the importance of the public helping to provide a whole range of environments for pioneers to build up their companies. Of course, the matter we now deal with, the Karian institution, is an important and important step in that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u114	Mr. President. I wanted to say a few words for this bill that I support. I agree with most things as well as I do. A senator and head of the committee's opinion said. A lot of sense was there. I specifically agree that we need to take care of our innovation. This fund, Kía, is an important step in linking public funds and private financial resources. I've often talked about innovation, technology, software, intelligent export, and the classical additional support we need to provide for the economy and the commercial life. We've been through a lot of business and economic events. What is characteristic of our combination and our economy as a whole is that we have greater and deeper fluctuations, both up and down, than in most other countries. There are a few reasons. One of them is that we are too dependent on a few sectors, and this is not beinglittle or demeaning them in any way, but it is merely the need for greater variety so that we can cope with pressures that can come from various sources. It can be because of conditions in the natural world, it can be fun, it can be aggressive, it can be aggressive, it can be aggressive, or it can cause tourists not to come to the country for some reason. That is why it is very important that we have much to build on and support. That's what we're supposed to do. We've said this to ourselves many times, and we've been told that many times. But somehow we are so quick to forget when things are going well, that we forget to think further into the future. Many good things have been said and done around innovation, science, and evolution. Yet, it is as if we never put enough power into them, and we do not believe in some way ourselves that it is possible. That's why we give up. Hv. A member of the council who recommended the committee's opinion did well here, even when speaking from her own heart and talking about many good things that have been done over the years. Of course, she made quite a difference with what the government has done, and I'm not gonna talk it down, there's a lot of good in that field. Still, somehow they cut down on the fingernail and are so reluctant to think for a long time, saying: " We are starting a road that we know is in itself endless. But if there is to be significant changes, we need to think at least One hundred and twenty-five years old at one time, so that the fruits of what we are doing will come to light. That's why I've been wondering what the government and the government groups have been reluctant to give a proper view of these matters, i.e. The financing of these cases. We are now talking about a new fund, a new one, and this year 650 million will be set aside to initiate new guidelines. And the committee that discussed matters has information about the fact that some funds are ready, and others in the starting holes, to receive the money. Yet, we, or the government, do not want to go further in the financing. We have another case that has often been discussed in that context and is sometimes called Support-Koria, which is to provide assistance to innovations that are in trouble. Set the budget, 500 million. A.K., it's suggested. Yet, we know that almost there is not enough. Yet, it is hard to face. I think it's a great poem about our work. It is quite the same with increased tax returns from research and evolution, reaching the two - year - old vision. It won't go any further, so if something doesn't go away, it won't go away. This is what I don't fully understand when, on one side, all of us talk about the importance of being able to change our business life and in order to do so, we do not trust ourselves to say, " This costs, and we are going to pay for it. ' The money we now place in the seminary is, I put it, totally small, in comparison with so many other things we're doing. And it might be said that some of the disproportionateities in what is being done in the economy and industry. I've been here many times and told that I don't really understand why we're so slow, or the government, about taking bold steps, big steps, making sure all of this environment that in the next few years, at least ten years in advance, if this is done properly. This will be the priority and the duration of the entire operation will be determined. I feel that we are just taking one step forward when we should take many big steps because the nature of innovation, technology, and science is once so that it takes all the time, and everything has to be brought together. True, we have an example of the amazing success of corporations, but the majority of them have decades of history, and this is evident when we consider the history of the companies we are most proud of and have done their best in this regard, created most jobs, and created most of the exports. That doesn't happen in one year, not in two years, not in five years, and not in ten years. This seems to me, unfortunately, is missing the market policy and the decisions made. I decided to grab the chance now to talk about it. As the World of Congress has noticed, I haven't talked much about the bill itself, but I think it's all very important to the better, and I'm just celebrating it, and I support it. But I think we all have to get involved, especially with governments at any given time. We need to be more bold. We need to take greater steps, and we need to realize that to be successful, we need to spend a lot of money on these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u115	Mr. President. I wanted to have some words about this bill, which in most basic things is good. I'm on it and I've got it at the Committee to Re-Elect a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee. But I wanted to discuss the bill in a larger context of the support system we have for innovation in Iceland. It is important that we realize that innovation is not something that happens completely spontaneously. Of course, it is so that creative people are creative and very difficult to make them stop being creative, and neither is there any particular goal. But if the situation is not that people can be creative and do something about that creation, they can accomplish it, for example. started companies around the ideas, put companies in such a state that they have income and can start building production and even export and other things, and all creationism may be useless, i.e. in the context of innovation and employment. We need good cooperation with support systems. It's been a very long time in Iceland that this combination was completely complete. That's been a pretty good foundation for a lot of things. For example. there are good sponsors for companies who are just about to start. Then there are slightly larger grants for companies who have come up with an idea and are ready to take the next step. But then, when you look at the landscape with a view to technology or some other special fund, the upper limit is set today. They may be at 70 million. K. That's, I think, the highest figure that's present today. Kría comes in as a way to go one step further. However, it is clear that if our goal is to create a company situation to be able to compete internationally, can be the next CCP, or the next Marel, or our next Assur of Iceland, we either have to hope that a larger and moneyier group from abroad will be shown at the appropriate time, when the company is ready for it, and invest enough hard enough or then we need to create a system of things for ourselves. It goes very far toward the bridge of the intervening situation, but we are not far enough with the next step, which may be as good as it should be. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson spoke of earlier, that it really was missing the scale or size. We must go much further if we are going to achieve the results I think most of us if not everyone has an ambition. Because we need this scale potential, when they've achieved a lot of success, a pretty strong impulse to leave the country, either entirely or at least with some valuable part of their business. It falls into a larger form of the Icelandic economy, where people's wages are very high, production costs are very high, and very expensive to import goods to put together or make something from them. On top of that, we simply have an environment that is very limited in many ways. This is a good environment if the ingredient is good. The only thing that it takes to create what we're going to make is pure intelligence and maybe just clever people who might sit on a computer and do something there. But if the objective was e.g. building some tangible objects, the examples have proved that at least it is an incentive to do so, even though research and development are taking place in Iceland, that the part of the high value chain involved in a combination of equipment eventually moves from land to some extent and a considerable amount of work. I've been talking about this as a lack of industrial policy. I don't mean big-time policy. It has existed for a very long time and has been very harmful in many ways, damaging to nature, but also in the sense that it may have lost a little view of what is possible for Icelanders. When an inscription is answered, you are certainly not asking the right questions. General industrial policy, as it has been proposed - e.g. Here at the Council a few times around 1973 and 1974, and then again 1991 by a fine candidate then, and now last year when I made a great proposal for the same proposal - that we would be a nation, or all the way the government, have some kind of idea of how we want our economy to develop, what kind of work and business we want to build underneath. Will we stress the importance of innovation? If the answer is yes, what steps must we take to get there? It has always been done in some kind of chicken steps. People recognize and react to problems, but rarely or never, look up at the scene, even looking to what other countries have accomplished, have done over the years, saying: "Good and good, what do we have to do to get there? For example. I think we should look at Sweden, which is that country in Europe, if I don't have the wrong statistics in my head, which makes most powerful innovation companies, per capita at least. We could be talking, for example. in countries such as South Korea or Japan, where there has been an enormous knowledge of technology because governments for decades have directly promoted the development of a powerful enterprise as a focus on specific factors, that there will be exactly the integration of the industry, that everything that needs to be done within the country can be done. Some would naturally say that Iceland is a much smaller country and may have less birth, and that's certainly true. At least we must be able to produce a personal version of this. Some would also criticize it, and I would, in fact, agree that in countries such as South Korea, a few giant companies are mainly being targeted and that's not a good idea. But perhaps in our own way, we could find some good way to have a intervening without all being owned by a few people. To achieve that, we need to have a conversation about industrial policy in a broad sense. In any case, we need to ensure a much better investment environment. We need to see how much money we use to strengthen innovation, compared with the amount of money we spend on maintaining our own condition. It can be talked about for a long time. I'm not going to get over them, because that's when we're getting too far beyond innovation. However, in order to establish the debate on industrialism and perhaps the lack of a complete vision of a new creation, it has been reported that Iceland's New Creation Center will be closed after a year, and it is now not clear what will take place. It is not clear what happens to the staff and the tasks there. Although I know there's a lot of work going on in answering any of these questions, this uncertainty is a sign that the harmony and organization needed to function our innovation environment is not there. If it had just been so and instead of announcing one day that Iceland's New Creation Center would have been closed, our new creation plan should have come. It would have suggested that one step would be that Iceland's New Creation Center would be closed or that the role would be replaced or that something would change, and that it would be done in a conversation with all professionals, all those who work on the platform. Then it wouldn't have come as an unorganized announcement one day without anyone knowing what was going on. I felt the wrong end of it. This talk is not supposed to be about the New Creation Center of Iceland, but it is a good example of what's going on. You need to think of this as a whole system. I haven't seen convincing information about this work being done. Of course, Kría comes as a good point into that process and into the investment environment. That in itself is fine. True, I may have made a bit of a joke about this bill in the beginning because it would not go far enough and it would not be seen in a wider context. But if we're going to keep looking at it as much as we can, it's an excellent step.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u116	The President emphasizes that the matter is Icelandic and reminds us of the phrase "consistent " to a population of ◯.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u117	Mr. President. I recommend to the Commission's list of changes to the bill for a warrant to establish the official transport infrastructure community in the capital area. I am not deeply involved in the prehistoric situation, which was very good with 1st. However, the main purpose of the bill is to fulfill the commitment made in a transport contract made between the rural communities in the capital area and the government to establish a society that is responsible for the preparation and implementation of needed transport. By means of the transport contract to promote legal, efficient, economic, and safe transport in the capital area, to help achieve the government's climate targets, to increase traffic security, and to ensure cooperation between the state and the rural community on efficient implementation and reliable transport activities. The Treaty also follows a framework or agreement for the total funding of projects presented in the Treaty, a total of about 120 billion. over a period of 15 years. I'm not going to be the cause of the matter any more, but I'm going to take it down a little bit in the tip and focus. The labour board on the matter and is first to say that after the establishment of this company and then when it is settled to take over the project, more parts of the legal committee are looking forward to a number of factors that need to be taken as a result of the organization's establishment. In effect, they are the factors the financial committee most likely discussed in their meetings on the subject, which were quite numerous, and the committee received three reports on this large transport or investment project. The Society is an official partner, as the committee states, and its approach to policy is through the tenure policy of which society's owners agree. Public society is under obligation to publish its approved accounts and regulations on the social network. There may also be members of the General Assembly at the main meeting and in the form of written suggestions. It is also permitted to attend a major meeting by the representatives of the media. The Society, however, is physically unlike other public societies in which the main channel is for the joint construction of transport workers and the development and sale of a construction site. The union is not expected to be on the other side of business. The implementation of transport workers falls to the road structure and to local activities, depending on the species and nature of transport workers, and in accordance with road law. Thus, the Society does not handle the public management of transport workers. Engineers will be developed in cooperation with the Vega projection, and the decision to implement projects will depend on the plans of the transport process at any given time. The board of directors is organized to six individuals, a minister of three committees, and a member of a rural society in the capital area also named three. The minister appoints the chairman without a form of appointment and the stockholder's agreement will be determined by the vote of the Chairman to match the vote within the board. To retune it, more of the budget committees make adjustments to the bill, where it is then implemented into the law itself. The majority of all points point to the key role of the network in the construction of transport infrastructure in the capital area, but the nature in which it has not completed a prior agreement on priorities and funding. The rural areas in the capital area have had a different view of transport solutions, but society is supposed to negotiate solutions and make agreements of various kinds, such as the road modalities and the development of the state's land with Kenldur to maximise its value. This work of the Society is similar in nature, but it is very important that the negotiation is successfully implemented in order to achieve the most practical of its structure. At the meeting of the General Assembly and the Board of Shepherds: By moving transport into an official community, the General Assembly does not have the same approach to matters as if it were a standard procedure under the oversight of the road program funded by a transport plan. In order to ensure the presence of the Parliament, annual government contributions to the company will become part of a transport programme and budget each time that traffic and speed will be imposed only by specific legislation. Since the Society is in the majority of the state's tenure, the Government's decision will take care of both its administration and its financial review. It is also noted that a special management group, which will be implemented into the stock accord, which reviews policy issues related to the project and provides support for the resolution of problems that may arise. The majority suggest regular information and monitoring in relation to the provision of financial and transport programmes at one time and that the management board will first inform the committee if there is a planned variation to the costs of individual projects, such as 25.g. Act of Congress on the rights of the budget committee to call for information. By doing this, the General Assembly will be informed about each performance, their funding, and how to achieve its main objectives. It is noted that the State accepts responsibility for the $60 billion budget. which are going to be funded by quick and traffic costs in the capital area or possibly by property sales or by reimbursement of fuel and vehicles taxation laws. If the planned schedule is not planned, it is necessary to reevaluate the funding. The majority of this points to the lack of currency bill, but the budget assumes the first amount of revenue in 2022. One of the main roles of this group, so I sort of join the team's role, is to prepare and find a place for transportation. The Society is assigned to the estate of the State, which is a country along with Köld, and the Society is given the responsibility under the bill to take care of the development of the country in cooperation with Kenldur in cooperation with its organizational authorities, where special emphasis is placed on maximizing the value of the country and its building opportunities by means of a practical organization. It is noted that in a contract with the company, a decision must be made on conditions when dispensing the Netherlands, which may include: has to do with the future location of Iceland's National College of Pathology, as well as other options and goals that apply to the construction of the country. A decision must be made whether to further the current building on the land or to make it more suitable for a future structure, although developing a country will also take into account the objectives of social mixing where possible, and it should be considered that a certain proportion of the property will be distributed to unfavourable roommates for the normal price. Most of the time, it is noted that the estimated price estimate of the state's land at Köldur is low according to its size and location. Developing the value of the land, therefore, is a key factor in the outworking of the work. If the value of mine goes up directly to the state's budget, according to the agreement. If the value of this is greater, it would be reasonable for the greater part to come to the reduction of the portion of the project that was intended to be funded by quick and traffic costs and to support the earlier agreement for the transport agreement. This is basically the subject of the bill and the coverage of it. The budget board. This is an enormous project. It is absolutely time to make transport improvements in the capital area and to have managed to frame it in this way, create this covenant, and arrange the work to be put into place so that a unique improvement in transport is already under way. Yet, it cannot be avoided to consider that this is a large amount of money. It may lead out of the bill that the State's responsibilities are 105 billion dollars. Funding in the next 15 years. So how important the work is! Then people can have all the opinions on how speed and traffic costs will be built up, but I remind them that such payment is solved in this matter of Congress, either by further government sales or by the pressures of other fees, up to 60 billion dollars. A respectable president. I mentioned earlier that the majority of the budgetary committee made one small adjustment proposal, explained in our committee program, which turns toward the death of votes by the chairman of the board. Under the commission, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, chairman of the budget board, Haraldur Benediktsson, Páll Magnússon, Árnadóttir Þóra, and Bryndís Haraldsdóttir's daughter. Ágúst Ólafur the son of Ágústsson, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and Sæland Goad sign this opinion in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u118	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill for an official participant on the construction of transport wood in the capital area. I'm asking why. I'm sure he'll agree with me that there's an awful lot of this, and if the other is going to work in this, if more land sells, then perhaps less speeds will be paid. If things go the way they should, they may be able to finance it as they should if the land is sold at the right time. What I doubt most about is the city of Reykjavík. Is it going to be possible to add transportation to the capital area in a different way than just a city line? The government has shown here so that it wants to stop all traffic, fence all traffic, and has shown the wonderful qualities of being able to keep the Eye Road so that you can both drive down and up, and then nothing. So I seriously doubt, as indicated here, that this will work. I doubt the financing. I also doubt the sale of land to support funding, and we know from past experiences that a telephone company was to be sold under the construction of the Land Hospital. It was a big, long, long story, and then it ended up in nothing and disappeared. There are many. What's going to happen to Tiluna University of Iceland in pathology? Don't you think the senators agree with me? Isn't this just a big one? It's not working, is it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u119	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter, and I wish I could spend a lot of his ostensibly, but what's meant is that we've achieved for the first time for a combined vision of the fact that we're going to build a road here, a means of transportation in the capital area to deal with the situation today and also to deal with the future we all see facing; an increase in traffic, reaching our goals in climate, etc. It is translated into our committee party, and it is very clear in a paper with the bill that the organization and its organisation are the key to getting started in preparing the project. Farmers are also putting money on the club, so let's not forget it. That's 120 billion bucks. task. Of these, rural societies contribute 15 billion, and their role is, in particular, harmonizing with one another, an important factor, since we have many rural areas in the capital area. There is an interesting discussion that I'm not going to go into here, how it alone can prevent transportation progress, that so many rural areas are in small areas. On the one hand, I don't think we're going to be able to go any further in keeping the financing down than it's drawn up. What's really the biggest uncertainty, my knowledge, is how we're going to update the costs and the 60 billion shares of the agreement. It hangs around again, and I pray it. A senator not to forget, that we need to reevaluate the taxation of traffic and automobiles, simply because of the success we have achieved in switching fuel sources, so we must reimburse all too much of fossil fuel use, so it is obvious that we reevaluate the taxation in a new way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u120	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer, but I ask him: " Does he doubt that the financing will last? Doesn't he question the city line, that it can work the way it's supposed to work? Then there is the other, it appears to be accelerated and traffic costs and/or taxation of fuels and vehicles. In other words, you should either have speed and traffic charges or tax the automobiles more. Does he doubt that it will do, even if 120 billion are put in here? That it will do for a city line, for paying for traffic in the capital area? The traffic is as if we know in a total paralytic as it is now and has been and is made up of Reykjavíkurburg, the city is not good at cars and wants to do anything to stop traffic. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u121	The President reminds me that one minute is 60 seconds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u122	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again resists. I don't want to go to any of the laws on the will and attitude of Reykjavíkurburg on the topic of traffic, which is actually a very simple matter, a bill to legalise a company to achieve the goals we have set for ourselves and to achieve transportation reforms. I don't doubt that anyone who's part of the company who's standing and forming it will come from the heart to that end. In case of a moment. A senator might want to ask me, " How do I doubt the amount of money that will be replaced in the next few years? ' It is primarily a matter of how we can recover from the sudden, unexpected crisis that we face today. It's going to be a big deal, and it's going to touch this thing like everybody else. Then you can do it. A senator does not turn away from the fact that we are either making hasty charges or reviewing taxes. I was saying we'll have to revise the taxation of vehicles. [[The president calls.]] That is in complete context to how we will change other taxation in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u123	A respectable president. Thank you. For a good summary, a prominent member of the Committee's Opportunities, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson. It's like a whisk. A senator entered, an enormously large project that looks to the future ship and is important for the inhabitants of the rural areas near Reykjavík, important for all the people of the country along the way, seeing important factors, environmental factors, climate, and most important, not least traffic and traffic security. I'd like to hear some of it. An authority on whether or not there has been a discussion of the priorities of this complex and complex project that will likely take over a decade and a half. Have people talked about it, for it is clear that you can do something about it that doesn't need to be too long. I'll mention as a light control, which those who are fully aware of believe could significantly affect the flow and safety of traffic. Is that going to be a possible priority? Well, maybe. What was the point of a senator? Those who travel through the city in busy hours notice that these objects are not controlled and that traffic is more polluted than they would need if management was good. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u124	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The content of this assembly and bill is not about priorities and how they are set up. However, it was observed in the budget that there are actually many works that have already begun, and that included. Consider that point. A senator mentioned, such as traffic control and equipment to steer traffic through traffic lights and more. That task is started in itself. The more important it is to put laws around the company so that larger steps and others can be taken to prepare for such projects. A senator and I deeply agree that it is very necessary to attack to pay for traffic. It's not just the capital area that matters. It also counts the whole country, and especially we know why. A senator from our fine example how to look to that area for transportation. It is a channel, a society that is put on the challenge of the priorities of projects. The bill is provided with a list of budgets and projects that I'm just leading them to, a projection and financial plan, just the part that is about to be carried out. The location of workers, their preparations, and their speed will be included in this group that we refer to and are setting up a frame around here. I would also like to point out that we are taking a very handsome look around the budgeting of each body member of the Parliament's committee that the preparation of the procedure will be so that a program will be implemented at any given time in the Council's transport program and the treatment of the Parliament on other transport arrangements here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u125	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. This is a big and big project, and complex, and the state will have a 75% share in the stocks at the start. As is often the case, financing is an uncertain situation. Yet, the staged images have been drawn, and the person we are most familiar with is expected to be paid. There is not a final result of any reduction in the pay rate. Depending on whether the government manages to sell possessions, countries, and businesses. I'd like to ask you what. A member and executive of this committee opinion whether any discussion on the payment was discussed further and whether these terms are not a concern that makes it admittedly cause for concern for those living in this area, usually people who need privacy and employment to drive the roads. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u126	A president still reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u127	A respectable president. The nature of the matter, as discussed on the subject, the budgetary committee does not address the pressures of traffic costs beyond what is stated in the agreement. They're supposed to be over 60 billion of the deal. Then all I can do is take a good answer. A senator by saying: "I notice that here are political parties at the great General Assembly, who have a measure of improvement in the same purpose as not wanting to discuss changes in traffic taxation and hanging a little like dogs on the redness of those materials. We know it well, me and a nice dog. paritaprevir Guðjón of Brjánsson, how a moderate exchange of the Whale Age was made with a rich will, and no doubt everyone was already impressed with it. It may well be that you are afraid of traffic pressures in the way we are talking about here, but we also must not forget the urgency and time that people make money against and reduce fuel disposal, etc. who can weigh the price. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u128	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator of history. The central category cannot agree with the construction of a city line, however, we rejoice in modernisation of the light control system of the capital area, a deal on infrastructure and the expected structure of cycle path and other eco-friendly transport. As far as the city line is concerned, there is great uncertainty about organization, implementation, business, and funding of the part of the agreement that faces it. Then I'd like to ask who. Senator: Is it fatal to act as a large part paid from a trust fund - which is said to cost 50 billion, but some people want to say that it can end to 250 billion in view of the economic situation, the viral epidemic - and that the government should place so much money on the project? Do not capital cities and other citizens have to be informed as soon as possible about who is going to finance the city line? Should the inhabitants of the West be reluctant to pay with their taxes? Well, they're driving on hollow dirt roads. Don't they have a right to know who's paying the project, whether to pay more taxes, because the people in the capital area need to be ten minutes on their way to work, not 15 minutes? I just wanted to ask you what. Because there is so much vague in this city line of motion: Is it possible to carry on with it like this, with the city line in there, when there is so much uncertainty about organization, execution, operation, etc.?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u129	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. He asks, "Is it possible to move on with the city line because of uncertainty? " It's just my answer: We're building a community and an area where we can settle the uncertainty. We agreed on the project. The agreement puts a financial frame around the projects that humans want to achieve. There is no uncertainty about that subject. How men, in turn, transfer what they have called a city line or other transportation improvements, settle men in the company, and we separate them from the fact that they will be published in the normal council at the council and we can also discuss it at that level, as in the discussions of transport and financial programs and then we will make donations at a time. Hv. A senator mentioned a hollow road on the West Seafjords and whether Westerners should pay for the city line. I think that's why we should also take the discussion of the financing of transport in this way. But it surprised me a little while ago when we were discussing the matter what we had few reviews about it. In fact, after discussing the matter, I wondered a lot about it, and we've plowed through it on that direction, why that form didn't quite fit in with an individual part of the country organization on e.g. Improvements in connection with or in any such agreements. Then I am simply looking to the state of government for valuable possessions in many lands, and we know that improvements are needed. Can we find some shapes in which we are looking in the long run on structure and plans and not just by means of a transport program that we do each time? But it must also be noted that, fortunately, the national part of the network has increasingly been identified by common transport policies and transport programmes. [[The president calls.]] Thus, there has not been a distribution in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u130	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Six. The bill assumes that the completed transport workers will be set aside to the State or to the local community. However, the law does not tell us how to handle the events when the structure of transportation can prove to be more expensive or inexpensive than the value of the individual's property. It's not a goal, is it? A senator, not being addressed to dealing with external expenses, does he exist? We know that in many projects in public communities, the cost is out of control, even on road projects, and we can mention many projects that have overstepped plans. I want to ask you why. Senator if it's not a goal. In addition, at the end of this discussion, I would like to mention that there are no instructions in the bill to which other country you are looking, which is specifically mentioned in the bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u131	A president still reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u132	Mr. President. Hv. A senator asked about the cost of construction. Over a period of time, there has been an excellent review of the Exports of Vega on individual projects, and it cannot be said that it can be hung on the label that the cost frames are always gone forever. It reminds me, if I don't make a point, a respectable president, that it's over by 7%. Indeed, there is much, but not to the extent that often comes from a general discussion. We'll reroute it at our committee party where the individual structures happen and who runs them. Likewise, they will be attributed in this way to divorce and their end. There is a special chapter in the committee that I, a respectable president, did not specifically read about financial terms and such things that I refer them to. [[The president calls.]] About another country - a respectable president, I've come to an end. [[The president calls.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u133	President. We're changing the Power Fund and extending his work through sustainable energy use guided. The problem is that the bill needs what we did on the Committee six weeks ago on the Food Fund. We planned to make sure that the views there are professional and to reduce the moral problems of a minister. If this is how the bill will be approved, the Minister will order one of three parties, determine their policies and how they operate and ultimately agree to the distribution of public funds in this respect. We changed it and set up a field of professional advice so that the university community, the innovation sector, and the sector could bring up a professional view of the Food Fund. That's what my change in the case means that we do because we're making a very big public money. [[The president calls.]] Then we should make sure that professional viewpoints are behind us and that a minister's moral problem will be reduced, that a minister can, in an arbitrary way, have some influence on how the money is distributed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u134	Mr. President. This is about financing projects. The bill says, with President's permission: The Energy Fund offers proposals for the Ministers on loans and contributions from the Energy Fund in accordance with the government's emphasis and policies as well as the fund's financial and payment programmes. That's all. What the new proposal means is that we add what a job committee put in on the Food Fund six weeks ago on the same basis, that we want to be more alert to professional views when it comes to the distribution of public funds, we want the university and the innovation industry, etc. Come on. Then, with the permission of a president: ▪...as well as the review of a professional council appointed by the board for four years at the same time. Up to seven individuals should be cheered up. Advisory advice on professional matters is given from the fund. At the same time, there is a professional counselor in the management of the fund for what is desired. Of course, this should be inserted. It reduces the moral problem of a minister and makes this more professional than for some reason, the manager of the case and the majority of the committees beg to do as we did with the Food Fund. [[The president calls.]] Let's see how the fund will be distributed, and if there's a bix or a drink, it's the responsibility of those who accept it here today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u135	Hv. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson explains his vote. It would be nice to know in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u136	President. Under these circumstances, a person prays for the word on a daily basis and does not have to do so in advance. On Regulation 8 par. says, with permission of the president: The Council shall set in its Regulation further instructions on the requirements for contributions from Energy Fund, the preparation of distributions, loans... This law continues to offer moral hazard to a minister who establishes rules for distribution requirements and then enforces certain rules for final distribution. He puts the rules and orders the board. One says he's in charge. Eventually, he accepts it himself. It just means that a minister has tremendous powers of distribution in his own hands, and of course he can be tempted. The present minister may not be tempted to do so, but he will be followed by another minister. There is a moral hazard for which we should put a lid on it or limit it. You could do the same as we did about the Food Fund by setting a professional advice that a minister needs to consult in the process. [[The president calls.]] But it's not what it wants here. Let's see how the fund's treated.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u137	Mr. President. This suggests that although the article itself speaks of color and shape, etc. smell and taste are not specifically mentioned. It is stated in the report that if the bill becomes legalized by the European Union, then the smell and taste fall under the brand and badge that means we're opening the door to that possibility and we know how it's coming up. We know what it's like, for example. are authorised on genes, including genes that cause breast cancer and if someone is going to investigate it, they will have to be paid for it. No one expected it, but when the doors are opened on this sort of thing, it's winding up. All we say is that when it comes to making it possible for humans to make their associates, they have their taste and smell separate. Piratar and I, if this becomes legal, will certainly be about to get the beer breath that smells like the Pirate Party. The left green, what is it, the bitter and bitter taste? No, I don't know. But at least I know that Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson told me that he's going to get the smell of horses for the Central Party. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u138	President. What we brought up on the case was to protect privacy. Personal protection sent a review of the matter and did not comment on it as it is yet, but it repeated that it fell under a personal protection law. It would have to be taken care of. A travel agency said that he had not examined the app to be used specifically for the process of making the gift available. It's obtained from a private company, but it's not quite clear whether it's up to law, if it falls under invitation, or if it could go on the way that had gone, to make something more expensive. The App is from a private company and there will not be an open software which means it's not as well done as the trace line that the government set off for Covid. An open software is the key to making sure that there are personal protection issues and that everyone can be sure of that. Let's be clear, of course, that Pirantar does not accept a case on such grounds as it is not possible to fully guarantee personal protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u139	Mr. President. We're going to vote on a bill for travel. As I mentioned in an earlier speech today, this is a subject that is in many ways good and supports the Group of the United States, with the main objective of the matter being made both, to strengthen domestic tourism, and to make it easier for Icelanders to travel around and get to know the country. But even though we had wanted to do something about it, and especially if we were to be more supportive to family members, we feel that it deserves support and will vote for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u140	Mr. President. We vote for a case called travel. For this reason, I'd like to thank the taxpayers of this case to give themselves travel because we have to remember that the gift comes from our joint funds paying taxes in Iceland. It is important that we remember where the gift comes from. It's from the taxpayers. Let's all thank them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u141	Mr. President. It's good to remember regularly that in general the funds we extract here are somehow from the taxpayers, so it's always good to keep it in mind, and I thank you for that comment. It's a good thing to do. It's from tourism. Then we can constantly debate the amount of money or other things, it is a matter of endless opinion. It's a good thing, everybody's happy, traveling's good. This is a Covid operation to support tourism in the country and not currently available.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u142	Mr. President. We're voting on what has been called a travel gift, a case that began his career as a travel check. To the members of the Central Party on a professional professional committee, we bring here a new proposal designed to strengthen the role of the case that is designed to promote tourism in an environment where it is on its knees. The suggestion is that instead of making the amount 5,000 bucks, the amount will be used as an amount of money. If she's 15,000 bucks. We will be able to provide funding and economic support in order to meet the extra expenses. But there it has become a more economic operation than there is now. I believe this support is deserved to the tourism because it has brought the country enormous income, currency, and employment and has fallen to preserve the whole country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u143	Mr. President. It's perfectly clear what Pirata's thinking is, this case is cool in many ways. The market gets to decide, people get to decide where they're taking the money. 5,000 bucks. you may not have a large amount of money, but I suspect all the publicity about this will result in people leaving, and when people start, they'll start spending more money in the country. I have a feeling the case will be very successful. We vote with the case. We made comments to one of the things we were hoping to be corrected and better premiums - I hope to the highest degree. Industrial and innovationary ministers are on top of it - but it's the personal protection agendas, as Perone Protection says must be followed by law. If it had been possible to go through the app that had gone with the infectious barber and we had been assured in advance, the Piratars would have supported the case all the way. But we can't finally vote with the case, even if we vote with it right now, when the protection issues are not fully guaranteed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u144	A respectable president. We're here paying votes for Krishna's wand and innovation fund. The aim of the fund is to promote the growth and competitiveness of Icelandic employment by promoting the active funding environment for the sceptical and innovation enterprises. The creation and the practicality of intelligence are essential to a wide variety of employment life, a strong competitive position, economic growth, and the well - being of a nation. With Korea, we contribute to Iceland's becoming an even better country for pioneers and wand companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u145	Mr. President. I recommend to the Committee's Committee my section of the budget on bill to legalize the official transport infrastructure community in the capital area. The media class rejoices at the emphasis presented in the bill on the construction of transport activities in the capital area. In particular, the group rejoices in modern development of the light management system of the capital area, a treatise of construction projects and the planned structure of cycle paths and other environmental transport methods. However, the party cannot agree with city planning plans. There is much uncertainty about the organization, implementation, business, and funding of the part of the agreement that faces it. Because of this, it is inconceivable to cut down dozens of billions of dollars in that part of the project. There's no running plan yet. It is also worth considering that now, when we have been dealing with a lot of virus epidemics with related health and economic costs and government funds, we should be putting up here a substantial amount of money on a city line of up to tens of billions of dollars. In the majority sense, about 50 billion dollars are attributed. Turns specifically to the city line, but some opinions have been made that the part of the agreement may cost up to 250 billion dollars. It seems unclear where and in what way to install city workers in the capital area. The bill tells us that there is a social agreement. In such an agreement, there is a fundamental debt between parties that clearly sheds light on how one will work together and deal with problems in the event of a problem. To establish a union that will live at least Three to four governments and a number of local and rural governments. It can be expected, and it is almost certain, that there will be differences in these topics. So it is important that the agreement be agreed before the establishment of the company. Whether it is customary for a general market to have a binding stock agreement after leaving an commitmental stock agreement where it is not easy to abandon such promises would reveal that people are not at peace with what is involved, and then I refer to new rural governments, local governments, the government, and the government. More detailed information is needed about the administrative position of the so - called control group. Looks like he's running the company. He seems to be required to make the important decisions, but such decisions are in accordance with local society laws and laws on the custody of the Community and decisions made by the head of the body of the body. Since this arrangement could go against the legal organization of society, it should be explained more closely whether or not it will be assigned to carry out the decisions of the direct group from its own convictions. Participants must be strictly concerned with society's interests, so they need to answer whether the government is actually here as a token, as well as whether there is a head law on partnerships. On page 18. 2 of the largest part's call sheet suggests traffic costs or similar funding are expected in 2022. It is excluded that the design and construction of the roads will be completed so that traffic costs can be collected in 2022, and I think everyone is aware of that and aware of it. A realistic date is missing here, and of course, the committee should provide a realistic date for these matters. Interestingly, a budget is about to play its own role - which is naturally of utmost importance because there are vast financial resources in the game and we know that the government's resources are limited - talking to the board and getting information from it and hopefully evidence, not from the government that has real responsibility. That's where we're back to what I've been pointing at, i.e. The so-called control factor of the control group, which is really who it is. Information from public societies has not always been easy. We know it here. This has often been very difficult, and it has taken a long time, as it can be mentioned in the case of the General Assembly. Lindarvvol. If, on behalf of the General Assembly, a financial committee is going to have a real surveillance of these large resources and important projects, they must be legally passed on my part, a law that should include unprovable information and relevant information to the council. Otherwise, it is not guaranteed that the committee will receive the necessary data in order to perform its legal surveillance. I think it's very important because it's very important at all levels of the situation that the funds are in charge of the project. The financial resources are of such magnitude that careful attention must be given to how they are taken care of and then all the resources the financial committee should have on that basis, and the best of the resources is simply to have an unprovable set of information in the law itself. Six. it is assumed that the completed transport workers will be set aside to the State or to the local community. The law does not show how to handle the events when the structured transport can be more expensive or inexpensive than the value of the property of the man who receives it. Here, Mr. President, I have to say that I believe that there is a great limit to not taking into account how to handle the external costs, if he falls. In these, it is not sufficient to refer to a partner's holding division. We know the excess cost of projects that have been placed in an ohf outfit. There is a payment, which, in turn, calls for an increase in funding, which included implementations at a Valallian tunnel, an important project, but an expensive and costly one, far beyond what was originally intended. It is extremely important for these things to be clear, i.e. how to deal with these events when the structured transport can be more expensive or inexpensive. I must say, Mr. President, I believe it's a significant deficiency on the bill. In chapter 5 of a paragraph on page 18. The bill tells us that because of the urgency of presenting a bill at the General Assembly, it was not a matter of consultation with the government. The ass was so busy getting it through that it didn't seem to be a reason to put it in the scheme of words. Of course, it would be necessary to comment that the second emissary field of consultation, which has been developed to ensure legal quality, and that the public and stakeholders can promote their views, should not be used in such an enormous matter of capital and national capitals. I doubt that all the people in the country agree that government funds are putting so much money on such projects as city lines, having holes in their streets, which are closed much of the year through snow, and that those whom taxpayers should pay for a city line of worth tens of billions of dollars. It would have been perfectly normal for the public to have made good use of this well - thought - out approach to the public and to ensure legalization. That shooting is past it because it is so urgent to handle the case is just a very sad treatment for the case, in my opinion, and not to be followed. On page 18. 5 The bill also gives the possibility that instead of guaranteeing the project 15 billion by evolution and selling it to the Netherlands, it is considered that the project will come from a similar land. No instructions can be found in the bill on which land to be viewed. I asked why. paritaprevir In answer to what land was being watched, the son of Njáll Fernubert, the Trausti of Friðbertsson, could not be answered. There is something that, of course, should be explained here, and it can alter the terms of the bill and the section if you are looking to another country. Is it lower in value than the traditional land? What would that mean? Would that not mean, then, further expenses from the State, direct expenses, or sale of any government property? I think it's a huge flaw on the bill. On page 18. 9 in a report, about 6. c., reports that the capital structure of the company has not been implemented permanently. When it comes to both cost - consuming and complex tasks as a bill, it becomes a law, intended to implement it, it must certainly be better to have completed that process before the bill was submitted. Once again, we will see that prompt treatment is under way. I just remind you that it's a fact that when you hurry, there can be a mistake in legalization. We'll see, for example. In the government's action panels and funding for the virus epidemic, people have been rushing, understandable, but they have also made mistakes, as in the part-change process, that it should not have been better decided that it would not be misused, as it has been. They're going the same way, so you've got to get it over with. public opinion cannot be made because it is so urgent to continue, and there is a serious danger of making a mistake. In terms of the implementation of currency, there is no evidence that transport ministers are working specifically on this. I haven't heard of it. There is evidence that there is controversy in the government as soon as possible, it is likely that this would indicate that, in time, a wealth of 105 billion would have to be kept in force. of the 120 with which the transport is involved. There's a lot of uncertainty about the aspect of the case that pays and executes on it, which is supposed to result in 60 billion dollars, reminds me. There is something that would have had to be much better checked and identified as being a member of the seminary. It's just, unfortunately, so it's all up in the air in terms of the government. Still, it's being taken here. It is also not in accordance with the property part, i.e. 75% and 25%, listed on the bill. The taxation on traffic is implemented, as I say, and there is no agreement on how to use and how to export it. There is yet another problem with setting up a path where there is no such thing as how it will be carried out, what the price will be, etc. In the end, the taxpayers pay it. I have to say, however, that there is a positive result that important initiatives were reached within the Committee to explain the treatment of the Kenningland sale value, and especially if there is a higher than the projections in the bill are expected. This was very important and clear in the work of the Committee, and I especially welcome it. This is so that the government fund will not have to contribute more money to the project, so to speak, where the extra money will become the property of a trust fund. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the Central Party rejoices because there is a process and hopefully a successful way to build up transportation in the capital area. Of course, this is vital for the future. There are many things that are unscrupulous, as I have established in this committee history, and it would be better to settle them before the bill becomes legal. As I told you at the beginning, the Central Party is missing. The task is enormously costly, and it is not in any way seen that it will lead to the practicality required. Therefore, the Central Party believes that a city line is actually a waste of taxpayers' money. In addition, there should be, of course, money evaluations that are not available, the basic premise for the decision making. The fact is, moving on in recent years has been marked by the fact that executives throw up ideas on sort of running, and this without commercial interests and priorities. In fact, it is very unusual and odd not to be placed in this matter of interest on the huge construction of the city line, and I make it clear that I am speaking about the city line, that the funds are put forward in this way, and that there is no profit worth. Clearly, there are some 60 billion residents of the capital area who have no tax collections available. The amount of money intended to remove from the pockets of taxpayers, 60 billion, corresponds to about New land hospital. It's just a one-way transport, it's completely unexplored. Is this a train? Is that a long bus? It's not available, and there's 60 billion in it, and you ask yourself: " In view of the state funds today, can we afford them? Is this what the public wants in the country? Many projects are now available after the virus epidemic and the income of the state's funds has been substantially reduced, and at the same time the debt has increased to 60 billion in the city line. In itself, an elected representative, such as Reykjavík, and the administrative authority over the next four terms, is being placed in hand. Here are commitments for the next four terms that we don't know what will happen. We do not know what our economic situation will be. There's a lot of uncertainty about that subject. Then commitments are being made, including Much of the government's funds into the future. Before the agreement begins, a new agency called City Workshop has been created. It is obvious that no matter what a person says and the government fund is to be paid for, the task is to be carried out. We believe in the Central Party that the agreement is highly unrealistic, and we don't have all the exports when it comes to the city line. They need to be informed about how to finance the city line. Shall these charges be laid, as I mentioned before, and are laid up? The entire country must also be informed that as the situation exists today, there is nothing more to be seen than to be a large part of the government's budget and taxpayers who have to pay for it. In answer to what. paritaprevir In this regard, Haraldur Benediktsson was specifically referring to the Vests of His Fine District, whether it is a matter of paying down the city line in the capital area at the same time they run street roads, and transportation is the way they are on the West. I'm not sure the people there will accept it. They were not even allowed to comment on this in their consultations because it was such an impassable time to move the matter forward. It just needs to be clear whether the public and the taxpayers are ready to take on the huge scale of the city line, especially at the times we are now, and as the economic situation exists. Furthermore, whether the capital of the capital area agrees to solve the urban transport sector. Substitutions are leading to a dramatic increase in flow and the duration of travel and are probably not nearly as costly as the city line. The debate over the city line has been very extensive, but no overall picture has been submitted and not how it will be intertwined, for example. the private car and pedestrians. Besides, there's no business presidents. The question is: Will city line increase the number of passengers who use public transportation and thus reduce traffic and pollution? Has it been demonstrated? There's something that needs to be settled. If we put it in the context of what other cities have done, we are probably looking at a much higher amount than the 50 billion that the government fund puts into the city line. I mentioned the number 250 billion. She has been mentioned in the discussion. There are a lot of uncertainty that need to be clarified and of great importance in all of this because it is quite clear that there is no basis for plans to do so. In the end, it will be a government fund that needs to be added and that is now enough. One might ask: " Could it not have been easy to make the same mistake over and over again? ' We need to learn from them in big projects here. It's been given a lot of money, like... In a bus to promote public transportation in the past few years. Have we been successful in this? No, we haven't been successful. There has not been the success hoped for. Yet, it was added to a considerable amount of money. It was approximately 4% of those who used the Bus in 2012 and now we're about 4% of those using the Bus where there is no progress. We'll see, for example. increasing the interest in electric cars and electric wheels has resulted in transportation, which can improve city traffic flow. There are strong doubts that a city line will achieve its success. The fact is, if the bus is paid in the way it is being done, we must pay with the city line. In these, it will likely be a substantial amount of money. We know that we live in a hardy country where the weather is unpredictable. It's always been this way in Iceland that the private car is very important to every family and it's not about to change in the near future. We have to face that, although some, especially in the greater part of the mayor's city, are willing to do whatever we can to match the use of our private car, that we live in such a country that the private car is essential to each family. I'm going to finish my case in saying that the road has been proposed for years on the mishappen on Bubstand Road and the Smokey Way, for example. The mayor's deaf ears have been met. It seems that other tasks are simply being delayed so that all the powder can be added to the city line. Mr. President. I see my time is up. The media is celebrating the transport route in the capital area, but we cannot support a city line. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u146	A respectable president. That was a pretty intense commission. I'm tempted to say that it was almost one of the most uninformed people I've ever heard of, and that's a lot to say. Let's go over a few things. Here the committee opinion says that the management group should be talked to, not to control, while it is very, very clear in the opinion of the committee that the board's management informs the committee. It's simply wrong what it says. It is said that no information should be given. It's done. As soon as there are anomalies to report. This is also highlighted in the committee's opinion. And when you start talking about the city line, God - a drawer. Lack of interest. No, a good part of making money can be found in all the reports since 2012. It contains, for example, said that without the city line, driving between 41.7% and 2030 would be an increase of 24%. There's a difference in all the field-of-view analyses that have taken place in this case. If not improved on public transport, which is the city line, it is being used for classical infrastructure projects, etc. that this is accomplished, greater highways for the city's line, much more expensive. Will the citizens of the land pay for that increase? This is an amazing presentation that comes about because the Central Party has just decided to cross the city line no matter what, even if we have a staging analysis and plans and a variety of cost models for all the projects in very thorough terms and a number of options. [[The president calls.]] It's just completely ignored and told me this is going to cost a lot and taxes are going to go up and I don't know what. [[The president calls.]] I don't understand where the Central Party is except by pulling it out of his ass. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u147	President wants to ask why. A senator guarding his word.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u148	Mr. President. It is with the most interesting answers I have heard since my being a member of the council and no longer lacking the use of words. I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament: What has been the experience of raising money in the Bus in an effort to encourage people to attend and use Bus? [[Good.]] She's good, she says why. Senator. [[And Bergethor Olason said so too.]] It has been observed that the increase is not at all sufficient compared to the amount of money invested in it. What guarantee do we have? paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, that the inhabitants come to use a city line, which costs a substantial amount of money and a government fund is putting 50 billion into it? We'll see what happened with Bus. It hasn't worked. In 2012, 4% of Bus and today still used 4%. There's no increase. But how many billions of people have we assigned to this assignment? So even if there's some staging, there's a reason. A senator well knows they're not always right, and we've seen it on a financial committee. Hv. A senator has called for more stage films because he has not been able to accept what we have put into practice. Isn't that right, huh? Senator? I have joined him in saying that it is very important to have more than one stage than here to believe. A senator just blind to the fact that this will all work out because some kind of picture says it's going to work. But if we look at the experience, it's very different if we watch, for example. On the bus. I'm just not sure about that at all. A senator, that the capital city inhabitants will flock to this city line that no one knows how to look. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u149	A respectable president. The appearance of the city line is relatively clear. Last year, e.g. There is a 4% increase in bus volume, which increases the population in the region as a result of a reduction in the number of tourists. The stage shots. A candidate refers to reports as a scene picture A, B, and C depending on how much money is put into them and whether changes are expected or not. We have six different stage photos, which are relatively much more than we can get at what we get. A financial committee, so from all these forms, it is clear what options are there. The only option we receive from the Central Party is something else, with no stage image, just a six to five, all six to one. But it's a good thing to do now that we have as most of the stage photos, as the best scenarios we've ever seen in any case, they're suddenly extremely unfortunate.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u150	Mr. President. I simply want to look into the experience by trying to get people to use public transportation. She's not good in Iceland. The fact is that the private car is important to each family, but it is also a fact that in the capital area, the city authorities, the majority of the city council, have done everything in order to prevent people from using their private car, only to control and direct people on public transportation - Hv. Senator, don't interrupt, Madam President. [[... Lying in a punk...]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u151	Get sound in the hall, give the speaker the word, thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u152	Hv. A senator keeps groping ahead, and then he complains that he is being interrupted. I'd like to say this here, Madam President, that it is inconceivable, in these times particularly, to put 50 billion of the public's tax dollars into some city line to tell people how to travel in the capital area. [[Up front.]] We can't afford this at all, as the situation is now, and I doubt that the people of the country and the capital are in agreement with it. A senator wants to testify. [[The president calls.]] [[... 50 billion...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u153	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Þórarinsson Based on this case, which is the authority to establish an official partner society, which is intended to be a cohesion site for the implementation and construction of projects that I mean, as many have said, a complete landmark meeting. Hv. A senator in his background asked if we can afford this. I say what. Senator: We cannot afford to plan for the future and the high goals in the agreement. On the other hand, I'd like to keep it in mind that here we are building a way to handle the projects of this agreement. It is a significant milestone that the six major rural areas in the capital area and the State combine to provide such a vision in all respects for improving quality of life. I am moved to see what's called a monitoring factor that's good at the majority of them. The budget and what. paritaprevir In fact, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson went well into his history. But in a minority party, it says, by permission of a president: It is noteworthy that a financier is going to discuss with the board and get information from him and hopefully evidence, but not from the government, which is responsible for the real responsibility. However, the majority opinion is made clear, by permission of the president: The ◯ The more part suggests regular information and monitoring related to the provision of financial and transport programmes at a time and that the management of the network will inform the Commission at first if there is a deviation... [[The president calls.]] I'm just gonna give it a what? A senator has the opportunity to correct this in his reply. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u154	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. He made it clear that this was a turning point. I agree, and I said in my speech that the Central Party welcomed the emphasis presented in the bill on the development of transport workers in the capital area. That's what I said. We are particularly welcome to the modern development of the light control system of the capital area, an agreement for construction on tracks of important importance, and the estimated structure of cycle paths and other eco-friendly means of transportation, such as for pedestrian road users. However, we cannot agree with a city line plan. I don't want people putting it out of context in my speech that we are, and I'm here in minority opinion, against the whole case. It's not like that at all. We just can't accept these urban planning plans for building a city line. Extensive funds go to the particular aspect of the project, and this is in no way properly defined in what way the work, business, organization, and other activities will be. For our part, it is not fatal to place large sums of money on something we do not know how much will be used. Does this have to be paid annually? In order to be maintained, it's the city line that we've made comments on. Hv. A senator specifically mentioned the control group. If that's a misunderstanding on my part, I'm sorry. However, I have emphasized that there is a need for essential information in the law. That is what matters, and we know how our surveillance role is here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Sadly, it has not been respected by many who are expected to provide information and at the right time by the Council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u155	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's answer, and it's fine that he found that there was a misunderstanding on his part. I'd also like to make a good decision for what to do. A legal committee spoke extensively about the surveillance and the monitoring program, how important it was. This is a big project. It's 15 years old. In order to ensure the establishment of the Parliament, annual government contributions to the company become part of the transport programme and budget each time, so it is always necessary to review the information and what is going on in progress. I missed it in a talk. The senator is here showing that we are speeding up projects that could take 50 years and pack them up in 15 years, a very important road - safety project. [[The president calls.]] I'm calling the West Road, the Smokey Way and the Southland Road. I missed it in a talk. A senator said that he would review these positive things in his plans. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u156	Madam President. It's just not right. Senator. I reviewed what we feel is positive about the deal. Although I did not specifically mention the way of the West, I simply said that this was supposed to be a means of building a means of transportation in the capital area, so I don't think I had to specify a specific road in this regard. It's a remarkable deal, I'm not gonna detract it at all. We, however, do not consider it fatal to spend tens of billions of dollars in a city line. We've got these paths that are stockways, and we've got these discrepancies, and so on. and they're going on other eco-friendly projects like cycle paths and such. All of this is good and important. So it's not exactly a coon. A senator approached. But our stand on the city line is clear, and I have made it clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u157	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson, foreordain's sake, wishes for the words he had spoken only in answer. Hv. The head of the budget board, Willum Þórsson Þrsson, may also have reviewed what I wanted to make up for his story here, that the committee fixed on the sort of organization that will be involved, information given to the council, outsides, and the matters of the Senate, whether it be a financial plan, a financial bill or a transport plan, giving the council financial and administrative authority to the council. We talked about it a lot in the middle of nowhere. The budget of the Senate's visit according to that special order. I warn against the tone of conversation that we are discussing whether any part of the country cannot be displeased with building up transportation in any other part of the country because we have been blessed in the process of reaching the development of transport as a social project. I just want to say something, okay? Senator. I couldn't answer it in a short answer to what happened. A member of the council to which other countries or property were being watched. That's what we asked in question. It's a legal committee, and I think that's what. I'm sure a senator has less to do with it. Actually, I'm surprised when I read the committee's opinion of why. Because it was easy to obtain information, a senator was eager to find information. It is very clear in the agreement that 15 billion are in the land of Legion, and we deal a lot about it in the Commission list of ways in which we want to put our arms around it. Bringing it is the commitment of the State. There's another country that was mentioned there without me mentioning that country in particular as an intervention, that doesn't exist, there's more land like Köldnaholt.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u158	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. He warned against comparing or performing some form of presentation that certain parts of the country were not at odds with construction in the capital area. My approach is simply this: The massive funds go to the city line, and there's a lot to do on the road around the country and a lot of important things for that money. It's just like that, huh? Senator. I believe that the people may and should express themselves when so much of the public tax money is spent in the capital area that we do not know what will return. We do not know how many people come to take advantage of that method of transportation. It's just a fact. Take, for example, the Smokey Way. To complete the double, it costs 3 billion. It is the largest highway in the country, and most of the people use it. I am convinced that most of the people in the country wanted to see - on the other hand, which has also become one of the most dangerous in the country where it is not double - that these projects are completed as soon as possible. It is perfectly normal to discuss it in this context because the amount is so huge that is to be put in the specific way in which the taxpayers and all the population need to survive, but it does not contribute to the use, such as. ... going south to the Chefavour Airport. To keep it in place, this is my approach that I feel is entirely right. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u159	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Although he spent a considerable part of his story talk earlier in discussing the estimated 60 billion things financed by property sales or speeds, I am still, a respectable president, completely in the dark. What is the central class's view of changing traffic taxation? Counts 'em out. A senator does not have a fair approach to change it and to look for more in the process of paying more of the available projects and thus shortening his travel time, saving fuel, etc.? I'm calling for an answer to that, a respectable president. Is the Central Party quite against changing e.g. Or will he sit and wait for the number of diesels and gasoline cars to be fewer and fewer, and the tax stock will be pulled together and not stand for any change? What is the attitude of the Central Party regarding changes in road taxation?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u160	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. What's the Central Party's attitude on traffic taxation? We have, for example. already it is time to address the charges that have been in the discussion that we can't support them unless we can at least support them. that there are reductions in other costs of car owners in return, because automobile owners in Iceland are highly taxed. That's a fact. However, it is clear that there is a general need to rethink the taxation of vehicles. Then I mean transport costs and other, because there's been a big change in that class, as we know by the arrival of a electric vehicle, and they're carrying a whole different charge, if any, against diesel and gasoline cars. We are totally on the line of participating in that discussion, and we have suggestions on that subject. It's important to revise that tax stock, I take my heart into it. However, for 60 billion in exchange to be included in this covenant and for this partnership, there is something that is completely unattainable. It is being written on when you have no idea what it will be and how it will be done, what the price will be, etc. [[The president calls.]] In our opinion, it is not possible to enter such an agreement when there is uncertainty.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u161	President. It's good to get an opportunity to speak in this great language, and I'm not afraid of it. Senators to push forward as they possibly can. It's fine that the nonsense that's been presented in a city line talk on the side of the Central Party has improved the printing and recording process. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] It's just very nice. I couldn't let it pass, Mr. President. I'm a simple man and the kind that sometimes when the projects are big, I step back and watch what we're doing. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson did just fine. We are dealing with a treaty in which six rural societies in the capital area and the State have joined together on the development of traffic in the entire region, from A to O, i.e. private cars, public transportation, bicycle and footpaths, etc. That's what we're starting a partner now. It's really all we're talking about today, how we're supposed to get together, how we're gonna make all the views and things, but normal, as we were at 1st. The point, that there is some way the discussion is led to rot, to why we're forming a partner, i.e. The capital contract. Here we have heard the viewpoint of opposers in the case of a prominent speaker. of the committee, Þórarinsson the son of Thorin. However, this is only opposition to part of the situation, for the distrust that the Central Party and various fellow believers seem to have for transportation in the capital area does not involve the rest of the agreement. From a talk to a talk. The senator and the earlier discussions might suggest that this was just a city line, but a larger part of the total increase is taking place according to the agreement. Strains that have been called so much behind and even allowed to lie to the city authorities in Reykjavík. I have felt that it is foreign for certain members of Congress to look at most of the part of Reykjavíkurburg rather than most of the other rural governments. They allow themselves to use a different expression about the elected representatives than the elected representatives of other rural governments, allow themselves to have different opinions, even calling for committee meetings, because this is part of the section in Reykjavík. I don't like it. I get bored when people are different for political reasons, whether they are elected representatives in Reykjavík or elsewhere. But who are we doing all of this for? Why are we making this arrangement for many years? Yes, for all the people who come to the capital area. It cannot be overlooked, for in many respects the capital area has not had the same economic ride on the side of the road government as many other regional areas. We come here most of us, whether we live in the area or visit them and here come tourists. Sadly, there is a considerable need for building up, and the need for change in transport habits has become enormous, changing that we are not only on our own in a car. That's why we've been looking to promote public transportation, and it's been going on, Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson reviewed it earlier in an excellent summary of how we have been able to promote public transport in the system we now have. President. More than a third of the city's capital area was considered to be Street users in 2017. There's some people here who don't know what to do. Congressmen sees talking like we're talking about some perimeter group that's against our idea of wasting our time. 16% of international tourists took advantage of the bus in the same year. There's no small number. President. I believe and build it to some extent on public transportation data and urban development that there are limits to how much passengers can grow in public transport in our present system, that there are limits to increasing the number of yellow carriages on the streets of the city in the present system. That is why we need to think about something large, think again, do what the nations around the world are doing, make cities of the same magnitude, even less, and establish high - speed social events. We call it a city line, we could call it Jónas, we could call it anything. Sometimes I've thought that it would be more reasonable to call it something else, just to call it the state's private car society, something that would cause those who believe that the first car is the start and the end of all because some seem to have bitten on the fact that the city line is so bad. What are we talking about? We're talking about preventing the 40,000 inhabitants who move to the area in the next few years from using the same means of transportation that we now do, that the growth is not in the same pattern. [[Top of the list: Options.]] We're giving you a choice, right? We're offering people that way, and we're inviting those who want to drive their own private car to make it even fewer that way, even better to drive through the streets of town for those they want, or to need, because some simply have to drive some of their business, some of them all. We are different, President, with different needs. That's what they're gonna do. Who's against this? Yes, that's the simplest answer I've ever had to give myself in this pit: the middle party. That tells us a lot of things. In fact, it is so far away that in my committee's section it is specifically stated that the roots are celebrated and that there's no point in making any agreement and a partnership on the soil, just not a city line, and the city line has to be stopped. President. This tells us some of the ways in which the issue is over, that opposition is isolated there. I like that it's been pulled out. I also like that we're here. This is a big moment. I want to thank you. A legal committee for putting our arms around the matter as clearly as it did, doing it as well as pushing us toward a transport system in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u162	A respectable president. I'll sign this under the heading on quick and traffic charges. They are not to be set according to all schedules until the next terms and I simply believe that there will be no need for quick and traffic costs. After all, this portion of the agreement can be financed by various other means, as has been the case with the Icelandic car owners. pointed out. The benefits of a lower incidence of accidents and of the implementation itself should depend on the difference between the costs and the benefits it brings. That part I think is totally unnecessary. I don't think it's necessary to put a special tax in the capital area if it's not supposed to go to a similar tax system all over the country. I believe that much more should be laid on a mile tax, similar to the heavy tax in the old days, in exactly the same way as we have a range of electricity and heat, nothing different, using the same model in another way. Our flows are similar to pipes where we pay a price for how much we use them, just like everything else. On the other hand, transport costs, especially at special locations, change the depth of the mattress and even cause a certain jam outside the means to carry the root weight off the road. What I feel is generally lacking in the Treaty of the capital, which is something the General will need to consider in all the years to come. People come to realize that they have to do better than the national agreement, i.e. in the structure of a different travel style, e.g. Bicycles, more for pedestrians, electric shuttles and such. The covenant I think is a good start, but I hope it will be, and that I think, and fortunately, a change in the years that will result in achieving the goals he is going to achieve. If we answer that need and that development, we will be even more effective. How interesting it is to have passed through the capital contract! There was a conflict in the agreement and a measure of secrecy over the discussion when they were on the most delicate stage, just because of the speed and traffic costs. No one wanted to say that speed and traffic charges, or charges, were really part of the treaty. However, when it became evident since then, it was found to add to the capital contract that the 60 billion who are to be financed are not merely financed by quick and traffic costs. It is an enormously important part of the contract, as it is very clear in this committee and body of Congress that the present majority of items assumes that quick and traffic costs will be submitted. First, though, they will not be put in until the next election period, and that will require a matter of Congress, likely during this terms of election. At least, I guess. to try that the current government will try to present a tribunal case for perpetuation. I'm not interested in that, so that it is clearly stated. I don't think they're necessary, and I think it's okay to put it in the next election, whether or not to go into the debt. In fact, I'm very pleased that the present administrative issue will make it seem that if he's in power, he'll be charged with it, it's nothing more complicated than that. I want to spend a very short time at the end - in order to not take too much time for those who are opposed but I think it's absolutely necessary to mention it as I spoke about in the counterweight--in speaking of that we're dealing with the issues that are simply betting on a political horse, trying to tap the votes of voters who are against the city line for any reason. There is nothing more complex than it really is in their language, and we will simply say: With all the scenarios we've had, which I've gone over earlier and there are some, if we're going to achieve the same results without offering the same amount of changes, we're talking much, much more cost. We are even talking about twice the cost of the city line. Those who oppose the city line speak of a huge cost to the city and say that it is not acceptable to the people. I would like to ask, " How can it be acceptable to pay twice as much to achieve the same results? ' That's a question I think everyone should ask themselves and simply examine the diagnostics that have been made. I know that engineering agencies are very interested in the case and have given their opinion of it. A staging analysis has been taken from those who are experts in calculating such issues. I'd love to get a similar calculated opinion from the middle class. Is this the Middle Class engineering lab? I don't get it. If we had been on a similar roleum a century ago, then the same group would likely be complaining about the fact that people were being taken on horses. We were at a station in the traffic history that we were switching from horses to cars. In effect, we are switching from just a car tour to an option on a variety of trips because the city has become the big city. It simply does not carry the heavy traffic that has been foretold in the years to come. The question is, would we want to pay twice as much to achieve the success that we can achieve with a city line? I feel that the answer is as obvious as it can be. Of course, we don't pay twice as much. I don't have the right to pay the same amount of money to get the same results. That's a totally crazy case. Everyone who's going to be against the city line needs to explain where they're going to get an extra 50, and how the hell it's supposed to be - excuse the language - somehow better than what we have in front of us right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u163	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill on clearance to establish an official transport building organisation in the capital area. A greater proportion of cases are available. The financier and its chairman, huh? paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, handled the matter well in his story. I'm going to try not to cut the same knee as that. A senator did so, but he would like to say a few words on the subject. In the discussion that has been in front of a respected president of the United States today, it is proper to be able to maintain a minor opinion. paritaprevir Dírnarn the Birgir of Þórarinsson went into his background and received an answer at that point. A senator described his opposition to the city line, which, of course, is part of the vision of the future in agreement between six members of the country and the State, the capital covenant. However, this bill lays the groundwork for a special partner who is to be held around funding and construction in the construction of transport timbers in the capital area, including the infrastructure associated with public transportation. The main objective of the covenant is high, and it is a lofty goal, a varied journey, and it is, of course, the agreement that is behind the issue we address here, and many people are talking about as a landmark agreement that I agree with completely. This is a major project and a large contract that lies behind these six rural communities, Reykjavíkur, Kóppavogs, Garden Town, Hafnarfjörður, Mosfellstown, Seltananestown, and then the State. What a grand step it is to reach the common vision in the agreement, and such cooperation must be the basis for providing effective implementation and security for the project, including the project. by specifying the teamwork form, as is being done, and the cost exchange and responsibility of certain measures and financing methods. It's inevitable. There are plans to achieve real transport improvements and to control the development of transport and transport through a wide range of travel methods. The most interesting thing to do is to advance the progress proposed, to achieve within 15 years what might otherwise take 50 years. It is a very worthwhile project, and hopefully there will be plans for them to follow because it is very important to achieve, in traffic conditions, that is inevitable, and that transport will become more efficient and more efficient and at the same time environmental, eco-efficiency and, in accordance with measures to reduce pollution. The middle class has described its opposition to the city line without, a respectable president - and it only corrected me for someone - to have any special solution to the subject that all these larger rural areas and the state agree on the need to cope. I think it would be irresponsible not to organize public transportation into that future and make it a practical option, a realistic route, by easy means, and by means of an improved lead system. That's what it's all about, and other things would be irresponsible. The bill involved in the establishment or authority for Ministers to establish the official stockship on the structure, on the role of the project, organizational management, stocks, loans, access to further contracts that focus on building and implementing, and on the factors involved in the State's contribution to the project, the development of Köldland. This is in line with 6. The covenant. The total growth of the State is estimated to be 45 billion. and rural areas return 1 billion a year for the next 15 years or 15 billion. Thus half of this large transport investment will be funded by direct donations while the estimated total investing will be 120 billion. 60 billion is intended under the Treaty to finance with special quick and traffic costs. Such currency, as we have seen in the discussion and in the context. left him. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear over it, is going to develop, and it awaits the council to discuss when it comes to the specific law of the material. However, it is noted in the agreement that other funding options will be considered concomitantly with energy exchange. A more inevitable fact, a respected president, is that for the future we face the need to reevaluate the taxation of vehicles and fuel, while the proportion of eco-friendly vehicles is rising rapidly as it is important to get ahead. It's a pleasure to see it happen. However, it is important when trying to achieve this trend for funding, and how and whether there is a quick and traffic expenditure or some other type of remuneration or taxation or sale, there is no barrier to building up in the agreed schedule and timelines. Some have criticized the partner form, but the Committee points out that the Society is primarily an organization or a channel, a platform, with the exception of the collective construction of transport workers, a contract that is subject to and developed and sold on construction grounds at Köld, and so it is important to maximise its value. Owners need to develop a clear policy, and it has a signed agreement and it is important to separate from other such communities that the union is not expected to be the public management of the workers but is at the hand of the Roadmaker where it applies and after local activities. In this context, it is important that the presence of the European Parliament, the Commission, the Environment and Transport Committee, be ensured, information and translucency on a regular basis, as well as the greater part of the annual budget, be part of the transport and funding of each budget year, and in special legislation, as I said before, possible traffic and emergency costs. They will not be put on otherwise. They are then presented to the enterprise according to the agreement that their owners should be informed on the progress of projects and finances at least 6 months. There's a lot under here, a respectable president, as the discussion has shown. This superinvestible investment, 120 billion, looks to the future and improved quality of life, increases traffic security, provides variety of tourism, increased traffic control potential, decreased delays, and traffic knots, and thus increasing production, environmentally friendly solutions, and is consistent with climate schemes. Since the process must be initiated, it is important that we complete the outside issues and households of the institution of public society and fill 6. The Treaty of the Treaty of the United States and the Continental Society involved in the treaty. It is important to bear in mind, and I'm going to refer to the d-d-dr-yr. The agreement, that the decisions made by the board must be made and not fit within the agreement must be signed by its partners. All of this is positive, and it will test the cooperation and solidarity of the project as far as it can go. The plans are necessary, and the agreement is essential, and it must be taken into account by this society's proposed institution, and it is met together to set up in the agreed cohesion of the project as I would like to see it. All the underlying objectives, however, are the most important part of the agreement, the support of changing travel practices and making public transportation more practical. With the energy exchange of vehicles, the change in taxation, increased traffic security, and fewer road accidents, we approach climate targets, and all of this contributes to improved quality of life, a respectable president. Now it's time to get the project started properly, and the bill is part of it. The need is just as great in situations that exist today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u164	Madam President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the establishment of the official community on the construction of transport infrastructure in the capital area. The purpose of the law is to fulfill the commitment of a transport contract made by the State and six rural areas in the capital area in September 2019 to the organization and funding of transport infrastructure, including public transportation in the capital area to the next 15 years. The six rural communities are Reykjavíkurburg, Kópavogstown, Hafnarfjörður, Garððar, Seltjannestown, and Mosfellstown. Until the organisation's establishment takes care of a city line project in cooperation with the Vega development project preparation of the project under the contract. The Society will have a common possession of the State and these six rural communities, though with a variety of assets, as the bill shows. The Society is to be assigned to care for the extravasation and construction of transport in the capital area until 2033. The estimated cost of the multilingual and large projects is 120 billion. Of this, the Kingdom will provide 45 billion on direct donations, and a part of that contribution is 15 billion due to the proposed sale of the Netherlands that the State puts on the project, while the rest comes from a transport program. I'd like to draw attention to this, Mr. President, that Feldland is one of the most valuable buildings in the capital area. The Kingdom will include it in this work. The rural population contributes 15 billion. It then accounts for 60 billion funded by quick and expressive traffic costs, as stated in the report and will also be discussed on sale of the share of the state in Iceland Bank. The cost of individual projects mentioned in the Committee panel is 52 billion in stockways, less than 50 billion in the city line, 8.2 billion in walking and cycle path, walking bridges and subpass, and finally 7.2 billion in improved traffic control and security measures. This aims to introduce digital traffic control in the region. Perhaps, Mr. President, you can say that the emphasis shown in the bill on the construction of transport workers in the capital area can be welcomed. I'm doing it here. There may be a long timely agreement on construction projects on tracks, so long have been waiting for residents to clean up traffic jams they've been waiting for. Since the city of the capital area has been waiting in traffic jams for the past few years, I especially welcome it if it is to be corrected. The middle class, however, cannot agree with the design of a so - called city line, as shown in the history of whales. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, who produced a speciality at the bill, simply because it is a project that has the tin of complete uncertainty about virtually most things. Thus, there is uncertainty about the organization, implementation, business, and, above all, funding. The report on the bill shows that there is a need for the State in the current state of making more money for investments or, at the moment, by the permission of presidents: ◯... to promote increased production by focusing on economic interest projects. How much money is the city line project? [[Upwards: very.]] In fact, the part of the agreement that turns to a city line in complete and complete fog. [[Foreground on: No.]] In such a case, it is a premonition that if anyone remembers such a currency, it will come at an unoriginal cost to the long future. An unpublished check was signed by the publisher of the check and owed it to pay the value of the check, except that the sea could fill out a box of the sum of the check itself. Such a commitment was made only to prepare for any demand. It is not preconceivable to count tens of billions of dollars in that part of the project where there is no management plan. For example, the construction of the man - made city line into the capital area has not been determined to be made up of unless there are significant pressures to existing transportation, and there are unsatisfactory capital citizens on their way to and from work every day. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Interestingly, there is no social agreement at this time, and it can be assumed that this will be the headache of all the six federal governments and the government, of course, but it will survive far into the terms of the unscheduled representatives of all these institutions. On this point, an official community is to be formed. All right. What is the experience of public members? What is the experience of our efforts here to get information out of these communities, such as Lindaholi? What has been the experience? I'm here talking about a city line primarily. I can't find other aspects of this project as a building project in the capital area, footpaths, walkways, and traffic control at all. I support it perfectly and think it's a long time, but I put a question mark on the city line because of the uncertainty I think of the project, uncertainty about what it really is, how to work it, and how it's going to affect transportation in the capital area, i.e. traffic flows to main stockways. Based on what I've seen, it's supposed to be the use of existing transport, which will inevitably squeeze to another course. Now it's shaking. A senator's head, but it's bound to be inevitable - unless it's some kind of hovered-out, but I haven't heard it - squeeze the current traffic and cause further carpets. The dream that in the minds of many people that I can totally understand and agree that the capital of the capital area uses public transportation far more than it is today would be a ideal vision than we've tried for years, added money to public transportation, and repeated a lot of money. Yet, there is hardly a day when you do not attend public carriages in the capital area and in many parts of a country where there is one or two or no passenger. It's a beautiful dream that everyone uses public transportation. But this dream has not come true. Of course, we'll have to have public transportation, I'll support them, but this is some kind of opium, that it'll be like that in foreign fairy cities, people walking around and jumping up to the next bus. I can totally imagine it's really beautiful. But it hasn't worked out. We have some way to promote public transportation so that people use it more than to come up with such vague ideas as this city line is and let the government put tens of billions of dollars in a project as vague as these things are to me. The media can't accept these city-line ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u165	A respectable president. It's interesting. It's in control. Centralclasses on transport in the capital area, especially a city line. Hv. A senator mentioned what he called fantasies, that public transportation, as in foreign cities, would be used. Now I don't find it very nice to draw up ever in the Lady AlIIis's personal experience, it's not very scientific, but I have to do it this time. You see, I've lived in two cities abroad, one called Turku, the other, Winnipeg. Both are very cold, and winters are much colder and worse for camping than they do in Reykjavík. Reykjavík is only relatively mild in winter, to my experience, especially after living in Winnipeg, where the cold will be completely absurd. However, people use bus in these cities and use it a lot. I used streets myself in both cities and, indeed, in Helsinki, another very cold city in Finland. It's simply wrong. Senator. The view that some American or smoke weather is too bad for the bus just isn't right, a respectable president. People take the bus and use public transportation in much worse weather than the average person in winter. At the top of that, I feel that there is a misunderstanding in a talk. A senator about how many people are to be inside each car. It tells itself that buses around here, as in other places, need to walk according to a plan. That plan must be carried out even if there is not much pressure on the system at the moment. In fact, it is very often crowded in a bus, and I know it from my own experience because I use the bus myself as a senator or before I got my wonderful electric racer. I wanted to come over here and get it right. A senator was concerned only with the bus. There is nothing about the Icelandic weather that makes the street more unrealistic or worse than in cities abroad where it is routine and is comfortable and not only for people who are forced to use it but also for people who use it because it is more comfortable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u166	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Mr. Gunnarsson's Helgi Hrafn for these comments that I don't think there were any questions. In short, my view is that this experiment is full of destruction and delirium because it is so vague and hazy. But I understand why. A senator who is extremely well and can fully agree that it would be in a perfect world if more people took advantage of public transportation. But here we have experimented for years just to get people to use them more. It hasn't been successful in anything at all. Given the funding involved, the success has been very low. [[Up front.]] Here is to make yet another experiment, surrounded by the foundation system of the capital area to install some particles which I think no one knows exactly how to look, how to walk, or how to get between positions except by de-tracting another round. I'm gonna share an interest in it. A senator said that it would be desirable to use public transportation more, and people did it more than it is, in fact, that it is not. It hasn't worked, and we're not going to do an experiment that costs tens of billions in an effort to expand our use of public transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u167	A respectable president. I'm afraid these views are rather out - of - date and, actually, a typical Icelandic chat around the bus. I notice that people who complain most about the bus never use it and who have not used it for 30 to 40 years. The problem with bus use is primarily the attitude. That's the attitude, for example. is reflected in a talk given at the beginning. A senator and all of this is hopeless and impossible, etc. I'm going to give you another personal story for fun, since we're not going to use the evidence here to support our case, either me or the other. Senator. I lived in central Tunan, Reykjavík. I took my baby to the daily parent up to the edge of a year's bus, came back, stopped at home, returned the cart -- that was unnecessary, I could have left it upstairs in the town of Aartown - and was downtown at nine o'clock. The Congress was in a vacation break at the time, but I could have been at a committee meeting. It's from the middle of Reykjavík to the middle of her years and then back to downtown at 9:00. The most difficult thing about it was to drag the boy out of bed and put him on clothes. The rest was simple. There's no problem with the bus. There's an app that I'm telling you. A senator to be useful if he has not tried. You can see where the wagons are and pay the fare in the app. This is no problem, except because Iceland's population has bitten on the fact that it's all impossible and hopeless, and because Iceland's name is somehow more unrealistic to use bus here than anywhere else, which I claim to be wrong. If we were to put our hands together and try to change that attitude, we might stop talking the bus all the time and instead start pointing at it as a good thing, not just because people need it, but because it is even. cheaper than other options, such as cabs or private cars. He's faster often, I know what to do. A senator does not believe that, and of course, there is something that depends on the location, but it is a realistic option. We naturalize that people use it and make it even more practical and more practical when we constantly speak it down, especially when it is based on some experimentation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I disagree. Senator. I don't see that they've failed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u168	Mr. President. It is fun to communicate with each other. A senator. He says I have an archaic view of public transportation, it would all change if everyone didn't have this point of conduct toward public transportation. I had just said that I share their views with them. A senator that it would be wish for more of them to take advantage of them than to force people to join in with the majority of the parts in Reykjavík to block round even more in the capital area than the word, and though most are concerned, stop round in the hope, Mr. President, that people jump out of private cars and up to the nearest bus, is that intended? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Is there a plan to force people? In fact, I have heard this view that people should be forced only to be in traffic jams, so much, hard, boring, and long lasting that people would just park their private car and jump up to the nearest bus. [[Foreground on: No.]] I don't share their interest in forcing people like this. There has been a construction stop in the capital area for a very long time when it comes to building tracks and misdirections so as to make it easier for family cars to reach their way, to get to work, to reach where they are going.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u169	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. It was interesting and reflects the attitudes that have been heard clearly in this hall when it comes to the structure of diverse transport workers. But I cut to the ear. A senator said that he landed a lot and frequently, and I don't know if I'm really right whether it was often or not, at least several times in seeing empty buses on the street. In fact, I've heard that often in recent years, most often from people who don't use buses, which notices that buses are even empty. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Is he ever driving a road that is almost empty? Then I'd like to ask, too. A senator, because he said that if I struck right after it was beautiful and good thinking, he would like more people to take advantage of public transportation: which way to go. A senator's success in getting more people to take advantage of public transportation?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u170	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir That's the secret of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir for these questions, whether I'll drive the empty road or if I can see the answer. No, I don't see a way to expand the use of people on public transportation, I don't see it. We've experimented, i.e. Governments, to increase the use of public transportation. I've seen a study of how it worked and what it was accomplished, in view of the budget in it - and you may be familiar with this experiment or an injection in an effort to promote public transportation - the key result, in view of what I saw, was that the results are quite small and far below what can be done to make it a requirement when it is financed. It's going even further in my opinion. It is being carried out, which is called a city line, and few know exactly what it looks like and what it will cost and usually just what it should be. I don't think there are many, if it were now a survey of the city's population, who knows exactly how it is to be, what the layer of carts will be, and what it will be done and how much it will cost, which may be the main issue. This is a 15-year journey with unassigned checks. They're only supposed to be filled out the same way. In other words, the government intends to follow the majority of the city into this journey, to go into action, which is in complete uncertainty and complete fog. I don't have a solution. Senator, how can we promote public transportation? I don't have it. If I had, maybe I'd be working on something else.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u171	A respectable president. I happen to have a precise solution. The solution is a city line. It's not just my solution. That's not the mayor's solution in Reykjavík. It is the solution of all experts who have worked on regional planning in the capital area and in urban communities around the world. It is the growth of public transport with increasing frequency and improved service. That's what we're talking about here. But the reason why I asked him why. A senator whether he had ever driven an almost easy road is that when we talk about public transportation, we have to watch them as a service and a certain flow, just as roads are. It will probably be that way when I drive to my home in Mosfellstown in an hour or two, the road there will be very few. There'll be few cars on the road, and I'll be able to drive quite well. But when I drove down here this morning, there was a car by a car and it took a very long time to get here. It's exactly the same thing with public transportation. The bus that drove from Mosfellstown down downtown this morning was static. The bus that drives here will be carrying several passengers, very few, but it's the nature of the transportation. We use them more when more people are on the move, and this is precisely why transportation, such as the urban line, is so important in increasing efficiency. Because of it. A senator only reviewed the results of the last few years of a trip to expand public transportation, and I'll review it better in my speech afterwards, I think it's important that here are some numbers. The number of passengers in each city in the capital area increased by 22% from 2011 to2017, while the number of automobiles per population increased by 21%. In 2009, on an average, 37 people took a bus, over 54 trips in 2017. Bustos was 14,899 in 2017, three times since 2011 when they were about 5,000. [[The president calls.]] I could continue and will do so in the talk afterward. Hv. A senator, we have the solution, but it's sad to hear that the Central Party does not have a solution to how we improve transportation in the capital area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u172	Mr. President. Thank you. Again and again, a senator makes those comments. I can also say what. A senator of many stories about people waiting long in their cars in the capital area, and surely most of the capital people can do that, and the irritability that comes with it, and especially during the past few years. Why would that be? It is simply because there have been no legal steps in the capital area to pay for traffic. Therefore, we now live with the ranks here every day, almost everywhere, almost at any time, except perhaps over the blue night, traveling and staying on most of the founding roads around the central city, and far beyond Reykjavík itself every day. I could tell a lot of stories about it. What solution is the Central Party in order to improve traffic? Not a city line. More to take place at different corners and extra flows here, such as the Sunway. Where is she? [[Up front.]] No, you're gonna put a lot of the city's crew on your ass ears into this city's adventure.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u173	President. In view of other changes in names, we will discuss matters that I am surprised not to have received a new name and to be called a Synod for the Administration of the Government to a greater part of Reykjavíkurburg. If there was a basis for rephraseing the travel check, the travel granting, then there is indeed a reason for setting up only this matter and calling it a new name and calling it a means to call it the rights that are relevant to the government, the greater part of the council, with the loyal support of the major members of the council at the council, is to suggest how the State can finance the campaign for more part in Reykjavík, especially the mayor and the Controversion. In 1st. I talked it over in general terms, but the point is growing that there is good reason to go through the bill itself and discuss its unique articles to prove its real purpose. It's in so many ways incredible things, incredible nonsense. There is a danger of sitting down with it for at least At 15 years of age and there will be a problem between both state and rural areas in the capital area, not at the end, not only the cost of investment, but also the financial cost that humans seem to have forgotten to assume in the currently available strategy. This is a new public society, because it's been so successful. It is being proposed to establish a new country within the national borders of Iceland that has its objective, and with the amazing power it is entrusted to fulfill its campaigns in Reykjavík, as advertised by radio and on the Internet for the last mayor's election. Two. The bill will discuss the main objective of the company. I'm not going to go over the whole list, but they are, with President's permission: It's a... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... To promote legal, efficient, economic, and safe transport in the capital area, with the same structure for all transport. Well, well, I don't think there's any disagreement. But is that not the role of the government? Is it not the role of an elected member of the countryside and the Council to perform this precisely? Why in the world is a special society, an independent public society, being made to handle what is one of the basic works of an elected agent? This is because it is essentially a system issue in every way. Few cases have been proposed in recent years are equally clear examples of the political system in Iceland. By doing so, the government of Iceland and the majority of its involvement in the matter not only cancels politicians at the council but also the elected representatives of the rural areas of the capital area, the authority they are expected to receive. Every four years, people are chosen to implement certain policies on these issues, but it is suggested here that they be taken away from the voters by taking them from their elected representatives and bringing them to an uncontaminated public society that will become an independent state of the state - and we are only in Article 2. the bill that describes the goals. A B-man reads like this, with President's permission: To help achieve the government's climate targets on sustainable, non-carbon-based urban society. All right. Here is another objective from the Union's advertising campaign for last mayor's election, as uncertain as it is now, which will achieve this sustainable and non-carbonization goal. The answers may be hidden as we go further through the bill. We will be content with the goals that I repeat, although we are primarily a description of which government will take the power of elected representatives and bring them to a social gathering in the power of the system. Section 3. The bill deals with the role and tasks of the club, and it says in the a- team, with the permission of a president: To carry out the funding for the construction of transport in the capital area and to implement this structure. Not only should the company be responsible for implementing the projects but it should also be used for financing. This is once again taking over elected representatives and, hence, public, both financing and carrying out projects. The b-part says about roles and tasks: To perform a comprehensive plan and a risk management. That's it. The plan should also be on the hands of this individual society that voters have very little to say. Not even the plan is to be with elected agents. So when a regional election or General election is launched, there can be no significant opinion of transport planning in the capital area, since the projection has come to this independent community. In the C team, it says: ▪ To supervise projects in agreement and evaluate priorities. You see, it is. The agreement and priorities are also meant to leave the politicians to the club. It is often said that politicians'main projects, especially when it comes to spending money, are setting priorities. It's hard for politics to see that politicians have to set their priorities and understand their priorities to voters. But no, harmony and priorities should leave the voters and go to this public community. Finally, the d-team says: ▪ To follow up the development of rural development programmes. That's very interesting, Mr. President. In other words, the role and mission of the Society is to follow the development of rural development programmes in line with the objective here. In other words, not only voters and politicians are being taken over, but also that includes extending power to oversee politics, with local societies and members of the council, and the community working on needed organizational changes, according to the opinion of the society. The Society issued an order that certain rural communities need to make specific organizational adjustments regardless of what voters think and what came out of the last election. The Society says: Garville or Kópavogur, or any of these communities, we need to make adjustments so that we can achieve the goals that we work in accordance with the Generals' law. But this isn't over, Mr. President. Section 3. The role and missions of the club are not finished, the E team remains. And what would that be? It says, by permission of the president: To collect quick and traffic charges in the capital area, it will be determined by the law to lay on such charges, and to build up the wood of such collections. There's been an invitation that there's going to be a concordance of this. In other words, this company is also responsible for a collection job. There will now be little left to be left to the politicians in rural areas in the capital area or in the European Parliament of transportation in the capital area, for this new society, this new government, is also expected to collect on new budgets, and there is no shortage of ideals for this government to invent new fees to the public, especially in the area of transport. Now they're called speed and traffic charges. They used to be masquerade. I guess it was the same ad agency that changed the name of the bill on travel references to the movers that decided that credit was too much for what was meant by the currency. So the name for this charge was set up as quickly as I will follow. But if they believed that they were already in the 3rd C.E. Which describes the role and task of the club, I have to grieve the audience, since there is one more factor. It's the "F" team. It says, by permission of the president, about the role of the Society: To take care of the development of a country submitted to the company with the aim of achieving a maximal limit for its value. Not only is the Society expected to take up most of the power that politicians, voters, formerly had of transportation in their rural communities but it is also supposed to become the State's real estate organization, to take care of the land of the State, in order to use the money that comes out of it to sustain the resources of the elements described in the bill as the objective of this company, this company. In fact, the Society is supposed to negotiate with the Vega program, but the company will supervise, as the bill says, and property checker. That's a deal with the Roadmaker. It's not the state or community that deal with the road model as it has been, this company does. It oversees and oversees the building of transport workers to the road structure and plans as described above. In the 3rd. has also stated: In such a contract, the following events shall define the role of a member of the country on individual tasks. If you didn't quite get it from the 3rd. that the Society could appoint rural communities for how they should manage their organizational matters when this is a requirement that the Society can define the role of a particular member of the community in individual projects. The Society negotiates with the Roadmaker and defines what Mosfellsville should do or park town. Is there a clear example of the political system in Iceland, Mr. President, but this bill? We're only at 4. It's turning to the half-price of the club. How does that come about? 75% of property should come from the state and 25% contribute to, which is a little special, in view of the fact that the matter of meeting elections, especially a certain party in Reykjavík after the last mayor's election. The government is going to contribute to 75% of the budget, to Reykjavík, and to make up for the rest of the rural areas. 75% of the society's funding is due from local taxpayers in Iceland, the public of the country, including Akureyri, Isafjörður, Faust, Visafjörður, Viggi, and so on, in order to finance the county campaign in Reykjavík. But on the 4th floor. says also, by permission of the president: The minister who handles the government's property shall take the share of the state in the [company] society because, as in the public community, it is only the Minister who holds the only stock, this stock up to 75% and has its power. Not the General, but the Minister. And speaking of society's administration, it's up to 5. The company's name, including the permission of a president, states: The company shall set up six individuals and shall have their choice confirmed at a core meeting each year. For example, the minister - the one with the stock - the three leading and member organizations in the capital area named three. So the state of the government that has 75% appoints to one side of the government. I suppose in one way or another, if the government of the United States remains in Reykjavík, the city of Reykjavík will be in charge anyway. Whether the Minister or the Company contributes to the government may not make a big difference. That's 7. ... please, Mr. President. It's called takeover and development of a country owned by the State. It says, by permission of the president: The EU shall agree with a special agreement with the Minister of the State, with the rights and responsibilities associated with it, as part of the government's contribution. A little later says: The EU shall take care of the development of the country in cooperation with its planning authorities, with the aim of maximising the value of the country and its potential for building up where possible. So here it is to describe the role of the society as the real-estater of the state. And then we just don't know what's going to happen. Yesterday we saw an example that Reykjavíkurburg did not have a condition in a contract that the State had made in some kind of trouble with the city of Reykjavík to deliver to the city from the national community of Reykjavík. It is likely too early to say whether this agreement is the same, although, unfortunately, there have been a great number of cases that the city's going their way, and the state, especially this government, seems simply to have no idea what it is about to sign in his dealings with the city, especially in transport, since time and again the secretary of transportation comes from the mountains when the city begins to explain what he was signing. But this isn't over, Mr. President. As explained in other articles, the Society has additional sources of information, e.g. Sources to borrow, with state responsibilities, and the authority to establish a family so that the Society can divide, divide, multiply, and create new subsidiaries under this state, such as the state's subjugation of the new Kingdom. It makes the Society, apparently, totally without the presence of the council, the purpose of this being, it doesn't go unnoticed by those who read the bill, to create an independent system of decision-making, and no matter how having to sit under any decision made by voters or politicians. So there may not be anything to be surprised about the Society's authority to multiply and create within itself a daughter's family, probably for the same purpose. But then to the report, Mr. President. It briefly reviews the whole bill's objective, why it is being done, to try to explain it before each study begins. The report even says that the article was very effective.: ▪ By the actions of the covenant [...] what covenant? asks the highest. I'm sure it's the president. It is the covenant that is here everywhere the underlying, so - called transport contract of the capital area. The procedures carried out in the Treaty are intended to cope with increased traffic in the capital area and other traffic related delays. But no, what is so evident when we begin to consider how to do this, as in a fresh record of the city line, where it is finally endeavoring to explain to the public how it should be? It is intended, not to pay for traffic, but to squeeze it. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. Could it be that my time has passed? [[The president calls.]] I haven't even started on chapter one. I'm waiting for the highest. President to put me back on the rosary. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u174	You got it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u175	A respectable president. It was not an interesting speech, and all who listened to it should kindly ignore all that was said in it, for it was literally all wrong. The Society has no final comment on anything there because it will all end up in the transport program and the Senate budget. Once plans have been made, as the Road program is planned and organized, it will always end up in the Senate. It is very clear in the greater part of the committee's list, so the first thing that the elected representatives were to give up some authority is simply a lie, there's nothing more complex than that. Anyone who should know something about how this works should know better than we had to listen to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u176	That was no question.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u177	Hv. A senator chooses not to respond.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u178	Yeah, if you're gonna say it like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u179	The Senator is free. He's not forced to wear a lock if he doesn't want to.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u180	Mr. President. First, the highest. This is how the president puts it. I'm just here to point it out. A senator had no questions or arguments. I went over this bill myself. I read it from articles and a description in the bill itself on the goals it was intended to achieve and what the partner's role was. So much for what it's like. A senator comes here and simply refuses to face the facts presented in the bill itself and asks no questions to add.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u181	A respectable president. Actually, it's an answer. It doesn't have to be a question. People who know how this process works, and it ends up in transport programs or financial laws, know that it is the endpoint, no matter what the law says.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u182	The president would like to confirm that members of Congress are absolutely free to refuse to speak up, and nothing to do about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u183	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Mr President, and I'm sorry if I seemed to be criticizing him earlier. V.E.G. This meeting is well controlled by the president, but it is difficult to deal with a problem. Councilmen behave in a way that is difficult. scolding, if a captain should call, did before. I got it. I got it. However, a leader simply to study the matter, even if only reading the bill and reading the Society's objective, its authority, and its work. Then I hope it all comes out before what's happened. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u184	A respectable president. It is a disgrace to the small amount of construction money that has taken over the capital area in recent years. I think I'm sure, according to the written answer I received from a transport minister for over a year, that about 16◯17% of new resources came to the capital area of the whole, where about 70% of the population lives and certainly 95% of all tourists are moving around. It's simply a disgrace. It is based on the methodology that has so far been followed by the construction of transport workers in the capital area. I hope this is about to change with the changed arrangement we're going into here. Last September, we signed an agreement with our rural communities in the capital area, and I'd like to say it's a landmark agreement. It may be helpful to keep it in place - because the speakers have gone a little over it and have been eager to discuss most of the section in the city's city of Reykjavík, and certainly our capital city of Reykjavík - this agreement was made with all of the companies of the capital area, i.e. Gardensville, Hafnarfjördur, Kópavogstown, Mosfellstown, Reykjavík, Seltanenestown, and, indeed, Kólarhrepur is also included in the area itself, which is responsible for this structure. The objective of the agreement is to contribute to a more efficient, efficient, safe transport in the capital area, with the same structure for all transport. At the same time, the goal is to achieve the government's climate targets on sustainable urban carbon society. Public transport growth, transport sharing, and improved infrastructures will therefore be most effectively achieved by the growth of public transport and other environmental transport practices. Of course, the key point is to improve traffic flow in the capital area. This is a quality of life by reducing the time the capital area spends in a car running around. It is important that inhabitants have real freedom of choice as to their choice of transportation. Therefore, it is important to improve the traditional footway but at the same time make sure that there are safe and safe roads to walk and cycle and to promote public transport. The bill we're discussing here is part of the package of making this agreement come true. It is designed to keep track of the projects listed in this cooperation. I think it's extremely important that this is the way it is, because it's simply that the capital area is one job area. This is where people flow. So we need to work together to build transportation between local rural communities. This was done by the regional organization of the capital area until 2040. I personally shared in that work from the beginning to the end of it. That work lasted two terms. There were two members of rural governments from all rural areas in the capital area, representing both the larger and the smaller parts. Thus came the work of elected representatives from most groups, but of course not the media, since he did not exist at this point. The regional structure was adopted in all the rural areas in the capital area. It has been said that this is the future and has become very uncertain. I cut by it, for example. At the right time. paritaprevir Þórarinsson called this all very uncertain, unwritten into the future. Yes, the future is uncertain. We cannot explain how things will be in the future, but the conclusion here is based on the best possible data and knowledge and democratic conversation we have about how to improve the most transport in the capital area. It is also vital that we look to the future. It is not just a means of transportation to serve us, people like this hall, and the capital area as it looks today. We are looking to the year 2040 when some 70,000 more people will live in the area. Times change, men change. In view of the will of generations, there is a considerable change in the way people think about transportation. I think that most of the people here have spoken today belong to either the so-called 'ababababby Boomers' race, a respectable president, I don't know exactly how to translate it into Icelandic, or the X generation, where the car is a status symbol. It must also be acknowledged that it has often been more important for men than for women to know that the car is a real status symbol. It is known from all psychological research. However, the next generation, known as the Y and Z generation, does not care about the car. He is just a vehicle to move in, and these generations want to have access to such a vehicle. They also want to have access to wheels, wheels, and public transportation, all mixed up. To a lesser extent, they need large houses, large gardens, and two or three cars in the front yard. These generations simply have other requirements. Therefore, when we discuss long - term organizational matters, a long - term organization, it is so important to view the changed will of people. Then I'll come back to what I said before, my variety and my freedom of choice. No one's saying that everyone in this room has to jump into the bus and start taking the city line when she gets here. In fact, there will be more space in the streets for those who select the private car when the city line has arrived and more opportunities to use the type of transportation they really want to use. In this discussion, there have been some comments that it did not work out. This and Iceland have been tested somehow differently than any other Western society and though others were searched for. Just don't walk to the bus. Billions above have been put into it and nothing changes, it's always the 4% who take the bus. That's why, a respectable president, I'm going to go over some numbers. The number of passengers at each city in the capital area increased by 22% in 2011-2017. Car traffic increased as much, by 21%. So if public transportation had not been available, can we imagine how much the car ride would have increased? In 2009, on an average, 37 people took a bus, which had become 54 trips in 2017. There were 14,899 regular users in 2017, only about 5,000 of which were three times since 2011. When major traffic vessels are taken up, traffic traffic took place almost in 2011-2017. In contrast, counting of cars passed through Fosvg and over the age of Old age showed an increase of 40% during the same period. The number of passengers in buses has increased by both routes, by 11.6% at the mall, and by 20.3% through Fos Sog. A respectable president. I used to go back before what. A senator. When I discuss the matters of the bus, people always see buses driving around empty, only a few people in the air. It's just the same with our roads. Sometimes it is crowded with cars and sometimes there are only a handful. I'm sure it's just the same with our water that flows through the pipes, sometimes it's all using water and sometimes it's not. This is simply the kind of service. But if we shut her down, no one will use her. Then we can discuss what it takes to be even more effective in public transportation. What must we do to get more people to take advantage of them? Research has shown that how often the bus arrives when people are traveling is the most important factor. The following is the quality of the tour system and the travel time. What's the idea of a city line going on? To increase the frequency, take less intervals and increase speed because it is, of course, that in our traffic activations, the buses sit just as fast as the private cars in the jam, as I have often called them when driving the most, in fact, with some exceptions and what are they? These are the so - called red carpets. I don't know if anyone is really against them. At least I haven't heard many people talk about it. However, the city line is actually a red carpet for streets in other parts of the capital area, faster and better public transportation. It's not that complicated. Although many people have wanted to say that this is completely unexplained and that no one knows what the problem is, it is not true. Local representatives in the capital area know exactly what they are dealing with, and local officials during the last term knew exactly that too. Experts who have worked on these matters and know how to transport know exactly what to do. People just choose to say that it's completely unexplored, and no one knows what it really is. But then it is also good to consider that if we are not quite against public transportation and people really want public transportation, because I haven't heard many people say they're against it and want to shut down the bus, you might wonder what the main cost of operating at the bus is. He's like most companies in Iceland, man. After that, oil and equipment come. And what does that mean? Of course, when the bus gets stuck with the bus driver, equipment, and tools and destroys oil, it is the large part of operating expenses. It has been calculated that each time we reach an average speed of a bus on the way, significant amounts of money will be saved. It's just simple economics. In fact, someone earlier said -- I think I've got it right after, a respectable president, that it was a sledgehammer. Birgir Þiririr Þórarinsson, he's in the hall, I apologize to him if I'm wrong - something like that: it's just to go to this structure, no matter what they say.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u185	That's wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u186	Is that wrong? I think that's what you said. But I'm going to say, "Yes, it's going into this structure, and no matter what the media says, because it's the only group that's spoken clearly against this structure. " The city line costs a lot of money, too much to say. Transporters cost a lot of money. As an economic analysis of what is most practical, it is certainly the most practical thing for you to be one of these types of China and to build up some trains and throw everyone into them and say, "You have no choice of how you should go between places. I'm sure that would be the most practical way. In contrast, the most expensive way to go is to just keep building here a tunnel, misdirecting the corners of the road, and increasing the number of driving vehicles in all directions. It's the longest. The route that had taken in this major organization was some sort of mixed route where people can choose which way to use it. We're going to have a powerful foundation system, but we're also going to have a powerful public transportation. It is practical in this regard. It's simply the most practical way. Then, of course, we also need to increase our effectiveness in transportation, and we see it at Wheels at work and during good times that people are actually using wheels as transportation methods. There is no longer just some strange middle-aged male footprint in latex pants. It's a real transport. When we're talking about the campaign opening, I'm like, "Yes, I promised you this before the election." I promised a city line before the election. My partner in the greater part of Mosfellstown did the same thing to local council members in every rural community in the capital area. It may be fun to do that, I don't think that many people know what community was the first thing that changed the main organization to bring in an organized city line. Anybody want to guess? It was Garville. The park was the first rural society to change its main organization to install and assume a city stop zone, so that the city line is just the mayor's imagination in Reykjavík is a mess. He supports it as well as most of the parts in Reykjavík, and this also makes more of the parts in most of the rural communities around us and not just the other parts, but most of the local representatives involved. I'm glad we're here, but we're not there yet. We need to finish this company. So, of course, we need to put funding in the structure. Then I remind myself again of what I said at the outset: It is shameful how little money has gone to transport workers in the capital area. The time must have come for us to move around in the capital area. Let us do this in good cooperation with the local communities by respecting the existing covenant and working to improve the performance and quality of life of the people in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u187	According to an article published by the president, the Icelandic word for "boom " is above the introduction of the King James Version. That generation was born in 1943-1960.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u188	V.E.G. President. I appreciate that word that came out here. I don't really know exactly where to take it first because so many things appeared in a short talk. A senator who needs an examination that I don't put it in one answer. First, I want to draw the attention of those who are watching comments as they speak. A member of the council agreed: The views of the Middle Class are of no importance, they are alone. Now I have to ask. A senator - and this is likely to be on tape, Mr. President, so I expect it to become evident then - on behalf of all those watching the broadcast: Is that an interpretation? For a senator of democracy, that those who don't agree with it don't matter that their opinion is not important? Is that how it is? A senator looks at democracy, that it is reserved only for some particular group of people who are right in mind? This is what we need, Mr. President. This was shown in the case of a man. A senator said that there would be only red drags all over the city, and the bus would run after them as if nothing had happened. Then I'll have to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Where are these red carpets to be, and at what cost? The main vessels in Reykjavík are in a very narrow environment and only to clear up houses like e.g. The block at the corner of Löngle and the Grand Way, the awarded architecture of 1947 Is that what it is? A senator wants to do and park a red carpet for a bus instead? This, too, needs to be answered, Mr. President. I wish an answer now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u189	A respectable president. I thank you for the opportunity to explain my words if they got misunderstood in that amazing way. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson left with us earlier. I quoted from another senator's speech: This building is to be done only, no matter what they say. What I said in that subject is yes, it's supposed to go to that structure, no matter what the Central Party says in this room because it's been giving talks that it's just someone's idea of a person or a major part of Reykjavík and there's no real desire for this project. What I tried to study in my speech, and I hope that this came true, is that the urban structure has been discussed for many years in all the rural areas in the capital area and in all the major engineering institutions and specialists in organizational and transport. This is the result, and I rejoice greatly because of a democratic conversation that has taken place in recent years that has made the idea as good as it is today. But I'm not saying that someone doesn't object, and I respect it, and it's fine that there's a team here that makes it clear that he's against the city line. The matter of the party has been very clear. What are the costs of a red carpet? At the expense of our community, because transportation is at the expense of society. It doesn't matter whether it's a bicycle trail or a highway for the private car or for the bus, it's at the expense of society. Hv. A senator came across the way to set up the city line in the capital area. It is implemented in each region's shared organization. This varies from country to country and from place to place in the capital area. In some places, this will be easy to plant, just like improved transport workers. It is not difficult to change transport into densely populated areas, but as we grow, we need to find ways to make better use of the space. That's what the suggestion goes on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u190	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator apparently misunderstood me in more than one way, that's easy. When I said at any cost, I meant at the expense of anyone with the space. Who's gonna leave the space for the red carpet? Who's going to leave it on the Grand Prix between Snorland Road and mallway? Who will leave it between Kapovogs and Reykjavík? Who's going to leave the space? What type of transportation should be left behind? Then I have to ask one question, key questions, because it has not been answered. What's the city line? Now I know that the chairman of the political party was. A senator doesn't know what the city line is. Then I'd like to ask one more question: Have you had a reason? A senator tells his chairman what the city line is, so can she tell us too?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u191	A respectable president. It's good to go. At each cost, the senator explained exactly what he was asking. Hv. A senator was actually asking at the expense of which other means of transportation the red carpet should come, so that it is clear. I hear this from many parts of the discussion, people are very afraid not to take streets where the only car can drive today and take a bus. I don't think that's the principle of building a city line. In most places, this is thought to be an extra space, but it may well be taken from lanes somewhere. Of course, each area varies. There is a shared organization in each neighborhood how it is done. Hv. A senator named Kopavog. There are the thinking of public transportation on a bridge between Fos Sogs and Kopavogs. I can tell him how this is going to be in Mousfellstown. It is to be passed through the Bolkastainland, where there is plenty of space. Of course, the project is very different. In some areas it is easy, but in some places it is more complex. I spent all my time saying this, but, of course, I should have explained what the city line is because I'm very hurt that at this point people are still missing the city line. [[The president calls.]] The city line is primarily a public transportation that runs in private space. [[The president calls.]] That's the short version of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u192	...talked about it afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u193	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Haraldsdóttir for his speech. I must admit that I always listen when it comes to such matters. She has a great and good experience as a unit leader in Mosfellstown, a beautiful local community. It is also interesting to listen to it because, in a sense, it sheds light on the small special relationship that exists between the Society's members around Reykjavík, which is mostly part of the independent party in control. The majority of these parts are in this peculiar relationship with the greater part of Reykjavík, which is led by the Continental and mayor of the Union, which is in the hands of Pirata. This provides insight and a paradox because it is then the Independence Party in my section in Reykjavík and there in a more severe battle with the greater section of the area of the automates around and on national level co-ordinated because of the National Independence Party, it is in a sense that financed the campaign for the left end of the city of Reykjavík. I want to thank you. A senator for metaphorically describing what a city line is, and I see it much better when she has said it is a red carpet for the bus. 4% on bus and what. A senator naturally has all these numbers in order, as we heard, while a family car is traveling in 99596%. The amount of money represented here is thus divided, as indicated by the design of committees, that, as a dog, is being carried out in the stockways. In the last five years, a senator mentioned that during the past five years, 52.2 billion are left. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then, almost the same amount of money, 49.6 billion, is to go to the city line, and the question is, What does money buy? [[The president calls.]] Can't be successful. A senator describes paying for public transportation in a more inexpensive way than putting in it 50 billion? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u194	The president asks why. Senators watch out for speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u195	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. It's not just that independence is a major part of almost every community in my district, it's in everyone, so I can show off. In most societies, they have been there quite a long time, in many rural communities alone in much more than also in cooperation with other groups, such as in Mosfellsville with the left, in Kpavogur, and in Hafnarfjörður of the advance now, and that has certainly been varied. Of course, I would really like an independent person to be in more of Reykjavík too, that's perfectly clear. Hv. A senator was describing this special cooperation. I've had a lot of experience with the local government phase, and I've seen local agents and local government officials get along well on projects regardless of the number of agents involved. In fact, I think we here at the council could learn a lot from the state level. Hv. A senator also asked me about my ratio, and why others did not use public transportation or if there was a less expensive or more efficient way to promote it. I was trying to introduce it in my talk, and I admitted that when I first took part in the assignment years ago, I was not convinced that it was the way. However, once all the costs for transport have been covered and the costs for the transport edification needed to keep the distance within the appropriate limits, it is possible to select only the root roads, which call for tunnels through the Austrajectory, the number of incorrect corners and other tunnels in the capital area, the most expensive option. It's a more efficient route. The basic reason for all of this is that it always costs to run a public transport system, and it costs less if public cars get space, get closer and better service. In fact, it is possible to show that this agreement is the reason why all the local officials who have been conducting the case for many years decided that this was the right mixture. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u196	A respectable president. Thank you. Haraldsdóttir But I reiterate that we are talking about just over 50 billion in the started - up program, with an ongoing discussion of almost 50 billion and nearly 50 billion in the city line. I allow me to call attention to a number of people who are using public transportation and the number of people who travel on family cars. I reiterate my question: Is it not possible for a senator to achieve the same benefits, results, or goals for less money than these 50 billion? Of course, all I can do is say that people work together, and we know at the World Council that people work beautifully together even if they are of different categories, and that they are now at least on committees. What I've just called to note is that the present mayor of the greater part of the world is as hard as he is complained about, absolutely unable to control financial matters, and the organization's affairs in total chaos, with the support of the Independence Party. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u197	A respectable president. As I actually came into my speech, it is that only 4% do not make the most of public transportation. 4% of travel, according to a specific survey, has left by public transportation. In fact, there are also surveys from the Land ▪ Council that indicate that there is a ratio of 7◯8%. Of course, the big thing is that the number of passengers in the bus has increased dramatically, as I went over. To achieve further increase, we need to improve the frequency, i.e. The number of busways needs to be increased and the duration of travel should be shorter. To do so, he must be able to drive in a special space. This requires making special lanes. This is the cost analysis that comes from specialists in this regard, so I'm not going to criticize it in any way. However, we must also look to the fact that all too little money has gone to transport workers during the past few years, they have almost exclusively gone to the construction of transport workers that are practically useful exclusively to private vehicles. [[The president calls.]] It is only in recent years that we have seen increased productions in terms of public transportation and other active transport practices. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u198	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Haraldsdóttir speech. I enjoyed her special experience, and I enjoyed listening to her. A senator reviews the fact that in the Kragains, people had become half-mad for having houses, cars, and parks, that would be a retreat. For example, I'm not sure that many people feel the same way about Seltjannes and Gard Town. But to correct any misunderstanding, there is no misunderstanding that, as I think, they are one person's disorder. A senator said so. This is the U.S. Congress of Reykjavík. We're in a hurry. However, it is obvious that a representative of the Independence Party at the General Assembly in terms of the public transportation and construction of the road system and the transport system in the capital area is totally stuck on that view. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir That's one of two questions from Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir. First, have the senator seen a strategy for a so - called city line after its business begins? Then it would be interesting to know, if so, if it is possible for the rural communities to see to it that they have to add to this public transport system from the current bus to the bus. The second question is very specific and simple: Does the modern - day family car have a reduction in lanes for today? Is it estimated in the first stages of the city line to reduce the lane in some part of the road line?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u199	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm gonna start by saying that I don't feel like Póco living in a house and having a garden. I live that way myself. What I said earlier was that when you look to the future and see the next generation's will, it is just different from the will of the generations today. That's one of the things I made a great deal of thinking as the head of a strategy committee in Mosfellstown, that we were also going to offer solutions like this, have houses, parks, and big parking lots in front of them because we also want people to be able to choose how they live. We now know that more people also choose their own apartments, shared car systems, and the like, and do not want to leave the same amount of money in property or automobiles. An election pool, it was my campaign bid.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u200	No question about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u201	No, but I'm telling you right here, it may well be that some others also promised, but I promised them too. Have I seen a plan for the city line since the start of business? I've seen stage shots of it, and I know very well about bus management, where I was in charge for a long time. The city line is not a completely new layer of public transportation. It means, of course, that ways that are today called root routes are moving into this system. They become more efficient in business when they can safely drive in the special lane. Of course, improving the rate takes more than that. Hv. A senator asks: "Is there a need to add? " That's where I want to come up with something that's really important to me. I find it extremely important that Congress worlds understand that public transportation is not defined as a member of the rural community's project. There's nothing in the law that says that the rurals are supposed to fire them. In all the urban communities around us, business is such a service to the cooperation of a state, to a local society, or to the third administrative level in between. As a result, it is perfectly normal for both countries and societies to come upon their business, as has actually been done but with far too little contribution in my mind. [[The president calls.]] But I assume that the contribution to public transport on nearly paper is much more useful when the service is added and others choose to take advantage of that route. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u202	A respectable president. I was going to ask about everything else in the future, but I have to sort out a question to ask. Senator. Of course, I'm grateful for a previous answer, but I understood it correctly. A senator, with all the work she's been doing to settle into these cases, did not see a plan for the public transportation system in the capital area, that only some forms were shown? Is there no management plan so that our rural society can determine whether they will see a significant increase in financial resources or not? Is this really possible? Structurals? That sounds like something that happened. The mayor would call a management plan, but I can't believe I'm hearing this from the independent party's representative on public transportation and the transport system of the capital area. Wants to play. A senator kindly confirm to me that once city line goals have been reached, there is no room for management. Is that really possible?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u203	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again. I hear he's shocked that I'm talking about some kind of future science like a stage movie, like it's an overexcited piece of cococoon. I'm sure there is a plan, even though I admit that I didn't come to it when I worked in the organization. Like I was explaining why. Of course, a senator earlier is no new device that is different from public transportation and Bus today. We see in the bus business that when the red carpet is created and the bus goes unstopped, significant funds will be saved so that when there is a construction that can receive these cars, they can be bigger, and therefore take more passengers who pay, the cost will be more practical. We have an example from many urban communities around us. We can see exactly what such developments are like. I don't doubt that in this excellent cooperation between the road generation and the local community in the capital area, there's a strategy, but it always depends on how fast this structure is going to be taken up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u204	V.E.G. President. We'll talk a great deal, and we'll have a good discussion tonight. I'm just gonna take one of the poles to the hill and start in my hometown. In Akureyri, it is said that it takes an average of seven minutes to move. In fact, there's something else. The town's pretty small. In fact, there are more hills in Akureyri than there are in Reykjavík or in the capital area. The other thing I'd like to count on is that there's no money on the bus and there's an empty parking lot. I'm calling it because it's intertwining keeping the flow of traffic quite nice and offering options such as keeping it free in the bus. I don't know that it was available in the capital area. From that point on, I think it was an offer in the capital area to have free parking lots, called terminals that worked well, even very well in many cities that are similar in size to Reykjavík. Yet, that path has not yet been taken. In Akureyri, the number of people who used bicycles has also increased, driving electricity, and then the good foot points. There are also more and more electric race wheels on the trails of the town. Gangs in Akureyri are usually closer to malaria, except in downtown areas, which makes it easy to go through, whether on a bicycle, on a foot, on a wheelchair, or on an electric shuttle. There's room for all kinds of travel options. As I first talked about, there is not as much waiting in Akureyri as there is in Reykjavík, especially in the middle of the city of Reykjavík. What I find most remarkable is the experience of coming and working in the city and seeing that many government agencies have moved their activities from the center of the city, now the last Veterans Research Institute, which moved out of Reykjavík to Refjörður. I can quickly remember, too, that insurance and the county office are the right ones for me. These institutions are all outside the capital. They have given up on it, as it were, waiting for a real, sensible automotive man, especially in the capital. As shown in the case of what? paritaprevir For the past few years, Bryndís's daughter's Haraldsdóttir has made them needed improvements. I was pleased to see it in the suggestion that the modern power of light controls. The street lights in the city are quite remarkable. It's amazing often that you sit, on your way home at night when traffic isn't tight, waiting and waiting for green light to come. It could be handled as soon as possible and should have been done long ago. It was needed, but now it is necessary. I'd like to mention the road rat that's along the Wall. The situation is in the morning that people compete; everyone, of course, is on the same way in the morning, getting over the next light. I think there are three, if not four lights within a mile, I'm sure it's within a mile, where these lights are arranged so tightly that people are hammering at reaching a meter and a meter. I haven't seen anyone on a bike down there, nor have I seen any man walking unless they're running to work. This is a very, very attractive area. I'm happy if it's also under when you're talking about putting more bicycle paths on because you can't take care of it. As mentioned earlier tonight's speeches, of course, the greatest uncertainty about financing and the business of the city is the city line. In a minority party of night. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, says, by permission of the president: There is strong uncertainty about planning, implementation, business, and funding for the part of the agreement that turns to the city line. As a result, it is inconceivable that tens of billions of dollars are spent in that part of the project. There is still no management plan. It has also been noted during the discussion that several people, even a number of people, have made good use of public transportation, and I think it is very important that we all have the opportunity to do so. I quote them again and again to what is being done in Akureyri. What we may be turning at this point is how much money to use, especially now that we stand suddenly in front of other things we might rather use the funds in. As a result, I initially mentioned that government agencies have transferred their operations to neighboring communities. To be honest, it's got something to do with how the traffic knots are formed in the center of town because they haven't had the necessary traffic benefits and are still being added. I can't let go of continuing construction at a land hospital on Ring Road, which is the largest workplace in the country. But always the emphasis is that the family car is being squeezed in. I'm saying that because at the same time, I don't think there's anything else I can do; at the same time, he can't get very high in the discussion. I ran into the writings of Hilmar Þór Björnsson, an architect I like and I would like to witness to them, by permission of the president. He says: ▪ It is now 15 years ago that Pétur H. A year's Ármannsson architect proposed his proposal for a city line in Reykjavík. This was a very well - supported idea that was in perfect harmony with the needs of Reykjavík and its natural development for over 80 years. The idea was so grown that it could not be overlooked. When the main organization of Reykjavík was revised and UAR20-2030 was released, Pétur's idea was correctly in it and was confirmed. [...] There was an idea designed to make Reykjavík a strong, dense, and functional, linear city. Many back then rejoiced in particular. The plan at the time was that this city line would be filled with a full trade from Lullar Square into Scenario within 33/4 years and would be completed by 2020. It was simple, necessary, and practical except being completely undisputed. There were no lions in the road, but even though it was unbelievable, it didn't work out. The city's organization in Reykjavík did not pay sufficient attention to the situation. Instead, this simple logical idea blew out and became enormous. It grew tenfold in size and grew to such an extent that society could not control it and had to bring the State into existence. A harbor was built without any planning for the city line. The end zone was rebuilt without expected City Line, etc. Fear was that nothing would come of this, and it was a big disappointment. Hilmar Þór Björnsson remains, with permission of the President: I don't know what happened, but it was like a snooty bitch running into it. Involuntary rural communities in the edge of the capital area, people saw an opportunity to correct organizational errors by stretching the city line from about 60 to nearly ten times. Involuntary perimeters are now to be rescued by the line rather than attack the root of the problem and balance the traffic burden on the transport system with known organizational instruments. The brutal plot to locate the University of Reykjavík in a swamp without any connection with the city web is now to be fixed by the City Line. And so that this idea can be sold, it is kept above Fos sog and then the way through plain streets in Kópavogi to Hamburg. And in order to strengthen the ◯ passenger base on this line, high structure in the Kárisnes and further development is planned for the old Kopavogstown. To me, it's not just about public transportation, and especially after I read those words of Hilmar Þór. To me, it's much more about the methodology here, that the taxpayers should pay the city line.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u205	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. She mentioned the arrangement in Akureyri. If I cut it right there was a why. A senator to point out that there's freedom in the street, isn't there? Yeah. Then I'd like to assume that there are a series of studies on whether the acceptable public transport is effective. I realize that evolution is positive in Akureyri, and studies have been conducted in many places that show that its use is increasing, at least temporarily. There's a negative result, too. It has been noted that there has been an increase in the number of car damages, the social reconciliation between us and that we have to be careful about all of this. Drivers may experience this in a negative way and in a similar way. The results of what I have read about are that in smaller areas, but not in larger areas, it often goes well or well. We know it from Reykjavík that for students it was free. Just too few people came to the map even though it was given. I therefore think that it needs to be done with caution, because it costs yes and there's always someone who has to pay, so it's reasonable to think that part of the cost is paid by those who use it. I just wanted to come in and see what it was. An example was given by a member of the council that agencies are moving out of the central city. She made a special example of Merro, who recently moved to Hafnarfjörður, which is, of course, very important. I want to see a lot more of that move. Of course, this is very reasonable because the capital area is one job area, and then there is no sense that all employment opportunities lie on the westest point of the capital area. I hope that's what I do and what I do. A senator can unite in the importance of the distribution of both the population and the trade throughout the capital area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u206	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir That's a great deal of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir's humor. There's freedom in the bus in Akureyri. It's given us a great deal. I don't know how many people can use the wagons there. What I do know, though, is that it's a dead end to the frequency, like a whale. A senator has spoken about it tonight, and I agree with her. It's always about the frequency. What I might have wanted to see, to give some idea of depression, is that people could get free in the bus if they were going into the city at a certain time of day. Since then, a bus could be kept free from the city at a particular time of the day. What I'm saying is that I don't feel that there are in any way fully established ways that can be used before we are treated in such a tremendous funding intended at the General Assembly. On the other hand, I'd like to agree with what. A member of the body in particular that it is normal for a job to move out of the city center. So I found that although the center of the capital area is very different today, I continued to serve as a land hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u207	A respectable president. I'm not going to go into the hospital because that's what we've been talking about. This is very important and less important, just after the city's opening line. She needs to work in both directions, and she's not just supposed to be moving people out of the suburbs. I cut it at the end of the day. A member of the U.S. Senate said ▪ Involuntary telecommunications (U.S.). I'll think about it. A senator was referring to the writings of Hilmar Þór, son of Björnsson. I'm going to allow myself to protest completely when we talk about unsuspecting extremes. Of course, this is not to be the case, whether it is our founding system or our public transportation systems, such as the city line, that it is about moving people in the morning into the downtown city and the second part the other way. Of course, we have one large area of employment and people here are supposed to be able to go between them, like in any other community. Hv. A senator referred to the management plan and the operation of a city line, and I was asked to do so in an antiquated way earlier. I think it could be compared to operating a heart ward in a new high-tech hospital or in an old facility that is not suitable for that function. I mean, by building a city line, the efficiency of cars is increasing because they can safely pass through traffic. It is a real practical business, which is social, for today it is the aim of Bus to have 30 to40% of the cost of operating expenses paid by fare expenses. I don't think that's getting completely caught, and that's higher than the objective in many foreign countries. This will always be paid by society. But it's also our transportation, our reporting and saving. All of this is social cost because, of course, we need to move in. Therefore, it is so important to consider practicality when this is the case, so I think that it is so important that the city line is part of the solution when it comes to transportation in the capital area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u208	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The secret to Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir. What I'm mostly trying to do in my injections is that I don't feel too much about finding incentive to get people to use the bus. The rate of the cars is not just because there are too many cars on the streets, I just refuse to believe it. Hv. A senator mentioned operating in a heart ward.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u209	Just to take an example.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-09-115.u210	I'm fully connected to this because right now, we're always choosing the most expensive option by loading everything into an overloaded Land Hospital, the most expensive option. I say, "Let's keep trying, and we'll plan before we choose the most expensive advantage paid by the taxpayers. " They have no choice. It's our job to control it, and we're in the wrong direction.
