ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u1	Last April 29th, at a meeting of the Presidency Committee, a new work programme was adopted before May and June. The plan will be published on the General Assembly's web later on May 4 as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u2	At a council meeting on March 12th. and again on April 14 were temporarily given variations from the council in order to deviate from 1 mg. 17th par. the obligation of members of the Committee to attend a meeting of committees as well as the 22nd chapter. of the Summit's Summit. Depending on the nature of the situation, it was ousted from the terms of Congress that members of the committee must be at the meeting to form a decision - making committee meeting. The president suggested that the variation be replaced as necessary until the Council interrupted its meetings at Passover and then extended to May 4 a.m. The president now suggests that these variations from the council will be extended. In view of the unusual circumstances that exist today, the president suggests that the variation will be approved without a vote at 1 mg. 80. g. Congress. So if you don't object, if you don't hear a word of it, you'll have an approved look.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u3	At the meeting of the prime committee yesterday, April 29, we agreed that in view of the circumstances that have developed as a result of the crown virus epidemic and the decisions made by local councils to extend their previous prime committee decision since March 17th. for the international work of the Generals. The Commission agreed that the work-related trips from members of the body and the employees of the office to the foreign countries will fall and also drop the receptions, meetings, and conventions of the country, with the participation of foreign delegates. The approval of the prime committee from yesterday applies to the end of a meeting in the current spring council, which is the whole international work of the World Congress on ice for as long as this council lasts.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u4	So much about the 5th and 11th session that the meetings were distributed on April 1 and therefore need to be agreed to take the matter on. This also applies to the 11th part of the program that has not passed the 3rd - mg delay. Thirty-seven. Parliamentary conditions, i.e. So called a five-day rule. Hence, there is a need to agree to take the matter on. The president's view of these variants is adopted without a vote if no one objects to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u5	There have been letters from foreign and development co-worker to provide written answers to panels. 869, on trial and non-conviction executions, from Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir's daughter, on a threshing floor. 584, search for submarines, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson; on a deck. 1052, on the influence of foreign countries, on election results, from Hrafn Gunnarsson; on deck. 124, the Ministry's comments on legal opinions; and on panels. 113, on the commitment of the Icelandic government to properly introduced EU types, the European Court of Justice, both from Ólafur Ísleifsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u6	The President reminds us that maximum of 20 persons in the same space, the control authority's instructions are valid up to May 4. So we are referring to this meeting. It has been successful to work according to these criteria, and the president trusts in continued cooperation with members of the Parliament on this subject. Then the president wants to suggest that there are some arrangements that are involved in the assembly after May 4 and become better introduced at the beginning of the next week.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u7	To answer these questions, Budget and Economic Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Foreign and Development Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Social Affairs and Children's Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u8	President. I'm asking the highest. Minister of two questions. First, about six weeks have passed since the government introduced a so-called pack of measures, number one. However, the biggest design of the package as presented is still not yet carried out, and as far as I know, it's quite long before it happens, if it happens over my head. What is the situation on the Bridges? How is it that governments are expected to complete what needs to be completed in order to become a reality? Second of all, I'm asking about Icelands. The government's contribution to the company in this condition has largely included support to the company to help them resign. Is not another kind of government support coming? Clearly, present shareholders and potential shareholders are waiting for the State's corruption while the state seems to be waiting for the play of the shareholders. Is it not reasonable for the State to indicate in what way it can be ready to arrive? Of course, the company is extremely important to the Icelandic economy, 72,000 jobs related to it in one way or another if we look for its impact on tourism. As a result, it is impossible for governments to be at least plan on how they're going to react, depending on how things develop. What Is the Plan of Governments? What's the highest. The secretary of finance is ready to indicate that such movement is being made available?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u9	A respectable president. First of all, the bridge's status. You're right. According to one U.S. senator, it has been a while since the General Assembly provided the legal basis for its decision, and it is also quite a while since I signed a contract with the Federal Bank on the implementation of these measures. However, there is now a final agreement between the Federal Bank and the financial institutions on that end. To say my point, it is unfortunate that this time was taken, but it may not have been much harm to me. For one thing, time has been just fine enough to see how the options can best be used. I'd like to make sure that we've had a deal with the Secret Bank that allowed longer credit periods than the narrow 18-month frame originally set up, and I intend to use myself for length of credit time. I think that will be useful according to the way the situation has developed since the matter was being discussed at the council. Of course, it is not possible to overlook the fact that the companies who have looked into this decision have, of course, benefited from another. They have been on the part-time route, and well over 90% of the companies who have requested a pay period for financial companies have been paid their dues. Thus, it is not as if the companies have been in freefalls, although the way has not been accomplished. Rather, they have taken refuge in both the government and the World Council, such as the Federal Bank, which has increased the reserve of banks to provide them with financial support and they have been taking advantage of these measures, as all numbers indicate. This has resulted in no special damage, although it took a little longer to settle the loose ends. But I have to use a second answer to answer a question about Icelanda.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u10	President. Then I won't add much to that kind of thing. A minister will have time to answer the questions about Icelanda. But I can't help reminding myself how much money I had to drive through the council. They were not even allowed to call a financial committee because it was so urgent to pass through. But it was finished, the council returned, but it is clearly unsolved in some ways still. For Icelanders, you wonder if the highest. A minister cannot in some way indicate the way that a person can get along so that he can get any movement on things rather than that even more staff will be dumped by the company over the next semester. Of course, we would like to see the speed up and the company begin to recruit people back to work. Which leads to the highest. A minister to him? Is it possible to create a chance of a loan that could be turned into a share if more share is not returned?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u11	A respectable president. It is official that the government has had dealings with Icellands and we have had a special working group working in order to get information about the company's position in order to form an arrest. What has happened in the past few weeks is that the company itself has taken the initiative. It has been reported publicly at Copenhagen, and today it is announced that the Society is planning for a financial gain. On the possibility of the government's access to society's affairs in connection with its financial restructuring, it is now being discussed in the realm's field, and I expect that we will respond and provide clear answers on how we would imagine it possible for the administration of the State to happen. It's my opinion that this is one of America's most important companies. All the business model connected to the Chefavil airport is, in fact, under here, and as a result, we've put power in it and taken very seriously the position that has come up with the company. [[The president calls.]] You're right next door. A senator says there may be a number of jobs in the company itself, but also the development of tourism to the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u12	Mr. President. Earlier this week the government introduced the third act package. There are a number of necessary items, and the way of reporting will no doubt benefit countless companies in total freezing, and hopefully some of them will be prevented from infringement. Billions more will flow from joint funds to a large company. So I ask: Is there an analysis of how these funds will exchange enterprises for the narrative, e.g. to five or ten of the largest companies? Many of our neighboring countries have undergone general measures for SMEs but specific measures for large and systematic important enterprises - such as airlines. Thus, many countries are now coming to help and have a temporary share in European airlines. The Icelandic government has decided to take another route. Now Iclanders are likely to receive some 7 billion for their share, which is half the market value of the company and the highest. A minister here informs us that there could be more. Of course, we need to help this important company, which is a lifeblood force in the country, but in terms of billions of dollars of public tax dollars it is important to stop and get a clear answer to the following: Is it normal for such large amounts, even more, to protect a company's share money without any direct chance of getting it back and temporarily getting into the company?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u13	A respectable president. No, I don't think it normal to defend the shareholders by such intervention, as I understand the situation, that the shareholders will be affected by a major damage, since the Society is taking stock tenders that are expected to mean that the current shareholders will be diluted. As a general rule, the state takes a position as a shareholder in companies, I would say that this should always be the last option. However, it is always a self - righteous thing to discuss with the State, especially if you take responsibilities for loans or loans, ask how it can secure your position, guarantee the money of the public devoted to such action. So far, we have agreed at the council to protect billions of dollars for this purpose, e.g. with the bridge loan that was discussed here and the support loans. These are all measures that ensure the company's requirements. However, the part - time ministry has been burned to a different extent. There we have decided at the council to go on the way to support a company because we realize that without support, the cost of the state would be either through unemployment insurance, the pay deposit fee, etc. To the point of going into a general economic operation, we have followed this path. I think it's a general economic procedure, which may include... Icelanders enjoy this relationship. Of course, there is no disintegrated list of enterprises that will enjoy the activities presented here earlier this week because we have not even legalized them and established the Agency to take over the information. Popular applications are not even started, so it is impossible to call for a list of enterprises that will be assigned. Of course, official information will become available as soon as it is applied for how to use it and who to apply it. To me, this is a general economic operation that we must have faith in and we must ask ourselves, " How long will it cost the State to do nothing? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u14	Mr. President. Nobody here is talking about doing nothing. However, the question is, How should we do so? There should be no myth for even the leader of the Independence Party to put aside the most extreme claims of liberalism, when business schemes and right governments around the world have realized that there is a need to intervene now and secure communities, to secure the people. This has been done in Germany, France, the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, and elsewhere. It's about time for that. 7 billion will be of direct benefit to this company, and of course it is a protection from the stocks, although more is involved and dissuades it from other sources. One minister says that even more should be brought, and then you must want clear answers about whether it's not normal that the public in Iceland will be able to keep the airline walking, this important lifeline, but can get the money back.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u15	A respectable president. I don't know why. A senator is so preoccupied with this one partner. We are here with 35,000 people on a part - time route, and they are heading for 50,000 members of the government's either legalized or now responding. Why does it want to be? A senator's only discussion of Icelanda? Why does he not state his policy in support of an enterprise that needs room to reorganize his financial situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u16	I haven't talked about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u17	No, it's just what can be understood by a word. The senator, or is he going to hand out one company and say, "Here are the companies the Conspiracies want, but we're going to leave the rest of them behind? [[Up front.]] What is that? A senator is shining in here? Is it that against the part-time support or against the support we have been preaching in the last place, where companies are in total need of protection trying to save the remaining jobs in many cases and to get into a house to dry up in these extraordinary difficult times, then wanting to do so. A senator gains shares in all such associates? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u18	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u19	President. Pirates and I have been talking about nurses' struggles under this team and especially at the highest level. Secretary of finance. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson asked the highest question. A minister of state funds to comply with the demands of nurses on March 20, when nurses had been off contract for a year. Then the minister, the government agent in collective agreements, said, "Don't know." Again asked why. paritaprevir Pirata, Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, of April 2, how much it would cost to negotiate with nurses who were then uncontracted in the middle of a pandemic but again refused the highest. Secretary of finance to answer this simple question. But this is a very important question, Mr. President. We must be required to know how much it costs to negotiate with these key workers, with these largest women's classes, in the middle of a pandemic, especially when there is no agreement. President. Now, nurses have refused a signed agreement, so it can be said that the medical standards are serious. The governor of the Land Hospital is afraid of reports, reported it on evening news last night, and there is no record of future contracts. Possibly the highest. In some way, a minister of finance justified not knowing the answers to questions. Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson and Thord's band of Ævarsdóttir Ævarsdóttir, if he thought it was good enough to avoid responding before the contracts had been reached. But now I ask the highest. The secretary of finance, not about what it takes to meet the demands of nurses, but about how much a new agreement would have cost a government fund. This is going to be the best. Minister to know, he must have it figured out, I just can't believe it. I'd appreciate the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u20	A respectable president. It would be easy to respond to a written request for all the information that should be publicized about collective contracts and collective contracts signed by the state. I'm not involved in the exact cost of each government contract. What I can say, however, is what I can say. A senator, who would probably have been talking to you about it. paritaprevir Similarly, Jón Ólafsson's wife, although he was killed, is that the majority of the nurses were prevented from accepting a contract - but, unfortunately, they were killed by nearly a billion dollars. Up to 5 billion, an additional requirement was requested to be negotiated beyond what everyone else had agreed on. That's what got the most out of the way of a contract. I don't think it's any good for any man to try to bring this fight into this chamber and pull some bands apart in a discussion about the details of such a delicate matter. What awaits us now is simply what lies ahead since a meeting passed by this morning is resolved on this matter. This has always been the purpose of the State. Happily, just recently, a board of negotiations by the Social Services Committee, which has put us back to this place after the contracts were canceled. With the fine support the deal was given, I think we have an excellent catch. I have a feeling that what is missing now is further exported to individual organisations in the worktime process and such factors, possibly stress payments. I won't be talking about it here. I won't sit at the bargaining table. My negotiaters have simply been authorized to complete contracts that meet the expectations of their recipients, but within the frameworks of which the state has been negotiating with others, so that all other treats are not upset. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u21	President. Sounds like this frame is just too tight. I'm wondering what the highest part is. The secretary of finance and the government will do it to ensure that our health - care system works well, which is the staff and nurses, is maintaining it. I called for information on the total cost of the state's budget, and I wanted to know the extent of it because I wanted to compare it with other government expenses. I want the public to have an opportunity to evaluate the priorities of this government to our common funds. We now know a few things about this new agreement, which was very unhappy with, Mr. President, such as. the approval of his approval include loss of pay for at least part of the nurse. That's the information we received from nurses as well as that the higher-relieving nurse rates do not reach 70,000 K. for four years. At the top. A minister discussed this increase under this program the other day, and I associated it with the 115,000 points. as the highest. Minister gets a raise today or tomorrow on one board. [[The president calls.]] Now that the nurse's contract has been passed, I ask: Is it surprising that the minister of this comparison? Don't you need to do better?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u22	A respectable president. I have to admit that I feel that all discussions about a unique collective agreement have a tendency to become superficial here at the conference hall and with little purpose. Hv. A senator says that the collective agreement involves a decrease in pay. It's a big misunderstanding. It's a big misunderstanding. Of course, there is a higher pay rate and a better cut from one collective contract to the next. Whatever it is. A senator is mixing and does not in itself have anything to do with that, in addition to the collective agreements made centrally, there are some institutions with temporary conflicts, as this particular case meant. The campaign under which the U.S. National Hospital paid for nurses was a case for which the National Hospital personally made a decision. When it became evident that the matter of that action disturbed the collective agreement, we brought a health minister into the council and said: "We're not doing it, we need to get money right away to support the Land Hospital in extending the campaign. That's the fact of that case. But to come up here and try to start a conversation about collective agreements on the grounds that we're making a deal about low terms is, of course, just to dust people's eyes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If we want to talk seriously about these matters, we need to set this specific schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u23	The president recommends that time limit is not covered in discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u24	Mr. President. V.E.G. Like other government counselors, financial ministers have been talking about the last days and weeks when light in the darkness may be a strong standing for the state's funds in the storm we are in today, that it is convenient. Then it may also be thought that it is unfortunate that in these critical times, national articles, even nationally necessary, are in the place of their choice struggles. I'd like to mention a special advertisement published by the National Association of Police Officers this week with a call to the Americans for aid and then the fact that nurses failed their contract yesterday. The officer's ad says, with the permission of the presidents: They were the same as they were in 2002. Police and I have been trying to have real discussions with the state of our best interests for many years. There are police officers referring to the words of the presidents of all the governments, who will not be understood differently, so they support the demands of police officers. Where is that support shown in this position? Granted, there are better discussions, but the pay issues are unsettled. Is this an image of not being taken too seriously by a coward's battle officer? The same can be said for nurses. I'm asking the highest. A minister in view of how long this has been going: Is it possible to form a vessel that makes it impossible to get together and wanting to meet the demands? I realize what's going on, but I'm pretty sure it's the highest. A minister also saw the importance of these groups in the situation today, and I ask about priorities. I'm asking the highest. Minister how he intends to employ himself to the interests of those who have been uncontracted for so long. How does he envision that governments fulfill their word to correct ideal groups that have long stood their feet against control groups in the wages now?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u25	A respectable president. I like it. A senator sends a rather cold greeting to over 40% of the nurses who approved the contract that the government passed on to their agreement committee, over 40% of the nurses. Hv. A senator comes here and says that the government is failing all these people. Should we not try to approach this with some reasonableness? These agreements were very close to our agreements. Now we are facing a new assignment, and we are going to solve it together. We're going to have faith that we can get along, that we have a contract to make. The mission is on the table of statemates and at the Convention Committees, where it is fully authorized to complete a contract, and we have declared our will to complete it as soon as possible. Actually, it's been since the contracts had been released. There's also police status here, and there's just the exact same story to tell. In the absence of contracts with public employees, this has been because our clients have demanded that the overall outcome of the agreement be greater than the agreements that have been made with everyone else. We haven't been able to do that. I notice why. A senator comes up here claiming that there is some inconsistency on the part of the government, that there is no agreement to ignore the demands of those who want more than anyone else. If it's a message, then what is it? The senator, who is now the right time, in the economic situation today, to negotiate collective agreements over the sign of the biographies and to negotiate with major classes for a particular conclusion to them, I wonder if it's a problem. A senator feels the same way about the rest of the work market, the general market, and all other government employees who have recently completed their contracts. Why should they not also have received this additional supplement as well? A senator calling from now on? [[The president calls.]] Why not? That's what I'm talking about. A senator of the opinion that the public market is now going to raise more fully and in harmony with the demands of the most important ones? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u26	Mr. President. That was an interesting rebuke, which I interpreted to the highest degree. A minister has reached an end stop in his efforts to approach these important groups. You can't say it any other way. The ball's over. He's not going to go any further. There are demands. Contracts are natural, since both parties bring theirs to the table and some conclusion is reached. I was just asking how to get to the top. Secretary of finance, represented by the people, was about to approach the present position. I can see that these contracts were practically killed. But that there are cold greetings to those who accepted them - I point to the fact that he was killed. He was struck by dissatisfaction with the increase in day - to - day work, which is not necessarily surprising because one and a half years ago a survey was carried out among nurses, where at the top of what they wanted to see was an increase in the day's work graph. It's not that complicated. These are the facts. But this is a sensitive subject. [[The president calls.]] I realize that, and maybe we need to take that in a special discussion like the highest. Minister requests. [[The president calls.]] The question was simply: is the highest. Secretary of finance agree on the seriousness of the situation? [[The president calls.]] Where do you try to find a solution?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u27	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u28	A respectable president. I said that last year's answer to another one. A senator said that this discussion here would be a tendency to become very superficial and communicative. Hv. A senator appeared in his previous inquiry and adopted the cause of one of the party. After I gave birth. A senator who answers comes up here and says, of course, both parties have to get something out of the situation. Isn't that just a matter? A conclusion is needed that both parties can accept. The government has signed contracts with a large number of government employees assuming that others do not quietly come in front of them. Therefore, the Treaty Committee has clear lines on the outer surface of individual agreements. [[Up front.]] The Convention Committee has given it to others who have already agreed with the State, such as, for example, to those who have already agreed with the State. orderlies, promises. That is the basis for the agreement that others do not come and that they deserve something more. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But, hey. A senator may think that he ignores all of that and that the U.S. Convention Committee should just turn his face in the opposite direction and just negotiate something. [[The president calls.]] [[Taken out of Hv. I'm sure a senator feels the highest. Secretary of finance can handle...]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u29	This request has been answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u30	A respectable president. News reports in Visi that the Landsban predicted an increase of 0.1%. The increase is now apparent and is 0.48%, which is five times greater. The story says under the permission of a president: The economist says that no one is able to explain the difference between the bank's projections and its final figures, but almost every subject has an excess of expectations. It seems, therefore, that mainly the effects of a gang effect are occurring more quickly and strongly in the inflation, while the experts were expected. In this context, the highest was said. For example, in the unsubstantiated inquiry, on April 20, Bjarni Benediktsson, U.S.A., with permission of presidents: Then we can discuss another matter as to whether there is any danger of inflation. I'm just like others about it, that as soon as you see any signs of inflation, you have reason to worry. At this point, no one will assume a massive inflation. It's just a fact. It's just a fact - but it's wrong. If we say so in English, what are we talking about? Let's take 20 million. K. An apartment loan and how the situation was felt less than two months ago. The average consumer price for insurance was 466.8. Within two months, it was 475.2. What does it mean in English? I'll tell you. $250,000. increase over this period, 250,000. an increase of 20 million. K. A loan. This means if it goes on like this, there'll be a million dollars increase in the year. Will the government do what she did in the collapse? Ten, twenty, how many homes do we have bleeding for inflation?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u31	A respectable president. It's out of the blue. A senator says that the latest measurements are just beyond what was expected, but inflation has not begun. We are close to the Penitentiary Bank and when it comes to having no inflation, we are, of course, talking about inflation, which is far beyond the expectations and goals of the National Bank. There's a concern that the Icelandic Crown's gang has left behind a little bit. It can create, if continued, an inflation pressure. You're absolutely right. A senator, and there is reason to worry about that. But I think the solutions to this are rather humble, i.e. to simply cut off all contacts with inflation without considering what it means in the larger context of the objects, e.g. for long-term loans, even for short-term. This was not clearly overlooked. A senator as to exactly what he proposes to be done here. But I reiterate what I've said before that we're keeping a close eye on inflation development. So far, the market has shown no evidence of having faith in in inflation blow in the near future. This is evident from a question of fruitfulness, e.g. State paper and the prices of marketed documents, but if, on the other hand, the risks that are certainly there in the course of the march become more and more inflatable, there is one person who is the first to respond. In fact, it is the bat that has an inflation goal that makes it a promise to ensure the value of the money. That is what the Cord Bank has to say about the price of the inflation. Whatever it is. A senator intends that an additional state or council will need to be made clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u32	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the answers. I'll make it clear what I want. I want a temporary roof on the insurance policy, 2.5% as the Secret Bank is in place. Let's stop her for a while. We can do just as well as temporary measures in the Covid business, no problem. What else must we do? Yeah, we need to rethink the reading on this. It's wrong, it's a bit wrong because there's been a bunch of things in the index now that's in zero, that's nothing, but it's just an old calculation based on what I understand. That's why it's wrong. That's why we're going to have to unplug the insurance. We need to reexamine what we're going to do inside the index, and we're going to have it right. Meanwhile, we can make 2.5% temporary insurance for the fall or the next New Year's Eve. Rather than put anything away, people should be assured that they need not fear of losing their home in the inflation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u33	A respectable president. It is, of course, a declaration that if a person had no faith in in in inflation or that he lost faith in the principal projects of the Federal Bank and his ability to live up to the inflation goal, he would agree with the law of the Council, although there were no special inflation expectations, to place 2.5% covered in the interest of money - assured loans, even for a short period of time. It involves a tremendous lack of confidence in the Federal Bank, and this would be a declaration that there was a future inflation. That is why I object to such an idea, and I really feel that there is no further evidence to support it, including any inflation that might justify such an intervention. There are more interesting things to discuss in this regard, but our primary role is to protect the interests of the households, and we do so by holding tight our wide lines but by not trying such simple intervention.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u34	Mr. President. Today, in response to the decline in income and activity due to the pandemic of the crown virus, the nation's motor movement is faced with a great deal of work and is trying to do so without affecting their powerful, social - important work. Sadly, the government's efforts to cope with the economic effects of the crown virus will not benefit the athletes. The general conditions of closing hands and support loans are set out to allow sports companies to fail as far as they are concerned. In addition, the majority of coaches and employees are unsolved and in part-time jobs that do not cover the 45% limits set for the utilisation of the route. Much of the sports movement and individual members come through the campaigns and advertisements that are not available today. This has also made it impossible to maintain a traditional job on grounds of a meeting ban and to expect that much of the members will want their money back. So it is not particularly bright with regard to the management of athletes and their ability to carry on this vital task at the same time that the need is most likely ever greater. There are a number of Icelandic studies that illustrate the positive effects of organized sports activities in the lives of young people, self - image, well - being, physical well - being, and academic success. A reduction in the work of these associates, especially the loss of the diversity of the work, makes it more likely that a number of young people will either fail or fail to participate in such sports activities. Since this has a bad effect on people and families, it is important that we find ways to support these same people, with these young ones, and with these families through our sports companies. I'm part of a Parliamentary arrangement that includes guaranteeing that there will be a temporary granting of children to pay fair fees for organized sports movements during the summer and the next winter. [[The president calls.]] This will help, and I will request support from the Congress Hall when it comes to that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u35	Mr. President. These winters have taught us the importance of basic aspects of society. Strong infrastructure, reliable public security, and a powerful health system, a creative education system, and, of course, many other factors might be considered. However, I would like to present here two classes that have been especially present in the past month, professions that are extremely important to our society, and we would certainly not want to be without, but for some reason this government is not ready to recognize their importance at the table of agreements. Not only has the working conditions of these groups been done more difficult and has been escaped from both professions during the past few years, well seen by the number of graduates who choose not to work in the branches. Nurses who have recently worked under extreme pressure, whether it is to treat people with covid disease or in other areas where the pressure has increased greatly because of the precautionary measures and officers who are overworked and who work under circumstances that would be unacceptable to most people, often few on duty to take care of large areas. Police never negotiated, never repay, and just have to wait for what is finally right. Police officers who have carried the heat and weight of the public defences that have come up in the winter, especially in Covid-19. To illustrate, Víðir appeared to us almost every day in the police uniform as one of the three - eyed eyes. Mr. President. Tomorrow is May 1st, the fight day of the remuneration, and the state's situation with those people we are dealing with is shameful. Officers who don't have strike rights deserve better than this. This is not acceptable. To build a just society, we must do better. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u36	Madam President. I'd like to briefly discuss the measures taken by the government because of the situation we're all dealing with every day, and especially taking to heart two factors as to the fact that I have maintained considerable misunderstandings about them, even here at the Senate Hall and also in the community. The fact is that in the loans and support we are providing to companies in the form of loans and loans, there is an unscrupulous demand on the part of the State that, on the other hand, there is no support for companies who are in the tax industry and that the companies cannot pay off interest as long as there are Kingdom responsibilities. This is the clear will of the government, which is found in the affairs of the council. There's an unlimited tax service required in Iceland. This is in line with what other countries have done, few other countries, Denmark and Poland, for example. Over the years, countries have taken different ways of doing this, but their goal is the same. It is also clear to the government that the government does not participate in the interest of enterprises that enjoy such loans. Therefore, while Kingdom responsibilities are available, companies cannot make any money. This, along with the efforts that has taken place in drawing and documenting real owners, are a source of national responsibility for which a company can pay off interest or a tax bill and enjoy support. The clear will of the government is found in the initials that have been submitted to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u37	Mr. President. Not Covid, not economic, but art. Whether it is before or during the outbreak or after the virus is tamed, she will find her own way. There is reason to tell the United States of Congress about the joyful efforts of artists from all parts of the world who took part in winter in the International Arts Agency on the island bank. It was held for the fourth time, and now under the theme sense of time or of ◯doing time in English. In a text from the presidents, it says, with permission from the highest power. President: Since social involvement and emphasis on new experiences are core values in the work of the art-work site, it is emphasized that artists are allowed to peer into the local history and get to know society from different angles of view. The Eyrabian community has opened its arms to the artists who have the opportunity to work with the teens of Children's Schools, senior citizens in the nursing home and prisons of Little Lague. This year the Department of Prison opened Little Haute's door to the art firm and was conducting a number of publicity courses in different arts for some 50 prisoners who were interested in the project, e.g. The handling of prominent artists and the performing of works performed in prison houses for prisoners and employees. The follow-up is in preparation. The project is called Walls broken and is a member of the Little Hogue in cooperation with the A Corporate Arts Museum. A six - week workroom for 15 inmates will be prepared sooner or later because they will be provided with tools and tools to guide their ideas in an artistic way that ends with a Little-Real show and also in the Hall of the Art Museum of Whos. I don't think that art has a good effect on many people, including those who have been deprived of freedom because of crime. In effect, the initiative may be welcomed, wishing that more will be done to speed up and improve the efforts of prisoners in many ways. Increase the events that help, from the courses, from Bubbi's concert at the Laundromat, and to the art firm's projects as I've been doing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u38	President. I heard yesterday that the chairman of the Icelandic country society had been disguised threats that there would be an Allellis team if there was not a bargain agreement with the lowest paid people in the rural areas around the capital. I looked into it and saw that the agent of the children had sent out a letter on behalf of children to the Eflingian side and on the other hand, the Union of Iceland that contracts needed to be met because strikes would be at the expense of children's well - being. Now I remind this party that Iceland's law is clear. It is a law in Iceland that when people make decisions about children, the welfare of children is in place, what is best for a child. I watched this with the eyes that I'm made to do and have promised to do as a spokesman for Porta's members, and I thought, " What is the best thing for the child's well - being in this matter? ' It's not a strike. The child - bound proposal to impose a ban on the loss of the poorest of the country's population, and as a result, poor children of the country are subject to child abuse. It's not available. People can try to make threats to send in that kind of thing, but I can't believe the government would put it on schedule. If she did, it would be at least a matter for her to gather help here at a council to stop such things. That's not an option. It is not good for the welfare of children that we have a responsibility to protect, and our communities are also under obligation to protect. What's available? We have an example from Reykjavík, where well-being agreement with the Eflinga assured the country's lowest paid people a very generous and acceptable increase in pay and their week of employment strengthened by children's ability to interact with their parents. [[The president calls.]] It is the only way in this matter that ensures the well - being of children. [[The president calls.]] Hv. The head of the European Union community should see its own dignity in dragging this hidden threat back and ashamed of himself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u39	The president suggests that men may begin using words, especially those with whom they are at risk, who are unable to give a reply here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u40	They only do so in the media.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u41	Mr. President. Farming is quite an important part of Icelandic society. They are the largest providers in all kinds of close - up services, so it's important because they have a finger in their pulse. They know where the heart beats and how the heart beats in Icelandic society. The rural communities played a key role in how we came out of the collapse at the time, and perhaps especially in that they did, in spite of their difficult economic and challenging situation, in most respects, a tremendous effort to make sure that young people's summer work and that their unemployment in that group would be as low as the collapse, although many of them were also taking a significant blow financially because of segregation. You're welcome. In the current collapse, if we can talk about, in the current epidemic, many rural communities have also been very successful, and large rural areas, such as Reykjavík, have developed plans for how they will react. This will be needed more and more as unemployment in the country grows and if it stays on hold. Then there are also questions about whether it needs to be a specific resource for certain societies, as in fact, we are reacting in the bandormins we are dealing with. Yesterday, a conversation between local members and the government was called. I think it's very important for these people to talk to each other, because in spite of all of them, we can't think of ourselves as part of a team, a team of members, or a government team. We're in this together, and public people need to talk. This community needs to be developed so that both parties will have their strength to help us all through this epidemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u42	Mr. President. A recent national game for the virus epidemic, a pack of three, was introduced this week. There was no consultation with the government, and she was not informed. All the members of the board are calling for the importance of meeting together that measures due to the virus epidemic are displayed. Now it has been definitively confirmed. Operation pack three is pretty special. Travellers have declared this to be beyond expectations and are, as it were, fine, but the next day they give up all the staff, thousands of people. This doesn't quite work out with me. The government's message is, now you can resign your employees without cost. In short, the state is paying off the staff's notice, but that does not solve any problems and actually only adds to the debt of state funds. In fact, the State is encouraging enlightenment. It would be almost extending the partial improvement pathway and gradually reducing it as tourists return to the country. And what about the companies who are considering going a different route than layoffs, noncommittal companies who need assistance up the most difficult bridge? The aim is to get money to the people. It is inevitable that some company will fail. The taxpayers can't save everyone. Low-cost airlines have already announced that they will begin flights e.g. to Teneriefe, showing that there is going to be an offer on the air. The budget needs space to be given to persons who go on unemployment, and it is not possible to make a debt of state funds to save countless companies, companies who were heavily in debt for the viral epidemic. We haven't heard of the banks, whether they're doing their job, and it would be interesting to find out if they're paying back and other loans and how many loans have been borrowed. [[The president calls.]] Or is it just a government fund that's supposed to take care of all of this and then have to face the loss of income with a tax raise?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u43	A respectable president. There are a lot of things going on in the labour market this year, a lot of people losing their jobs, and others in the big talk business. My mind is with the many people who are losing their jobs, both in the Icelanda air sector and in the rest of the sector, in travel services, and many others related to the branches and the secondary activities. But I do believe that by means of the National Association of America, both here by the General Assembly, through the local administrations, through the firms and homes, we'll get through this, and hopefully this union power will cause as many people as possible to get their jobs back as soon as possible and before trying to get the rest of the story, or the higher levels of unemployment. It is our job to help. There is also a debate, and it may be seen mainly in shiftal groups that are asking for some changes in their work hours and the evaluation of shift work. At the same time, this is usually our front line, but today in viral history, there are far larger definitions and difficulties in speaking of one class there, many more of them. I'm going to give special attention to the advanced class that is always at work when something comes up, whether it's a health or economic problem or what it is, i.e. Officers, this class I know best. They always need to be there, without strike rights, and instead of the strike rights, which have always been passed by by by by the government agreement committee. I know it from 2008 when I came to them. So I simply declare that there is a need for a way to correct it, since this way has not yet gone up. The basic wage and the average win cannot be determined. When I was working with the police, I received the same pay as the basic wage, which shows the importance of other aspects of the remuneration. I know they're at the bargaining table now, and hopefully they'll get some sort of solution that's really important. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u44	The President was very careful, huh? A senator got an extra 30 seconds, but it's a perfectly sleeping President's fault.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u45	A respectable president. Our first step as a nation in the awesome work that we are facing was marked by a beautiful solidarity and fellow feeling. The guide has been that the project is all of us. The emphasis was naturally at first the battle against the pandemic, the protection of a nation's life and health. The task now is the economic shock. We face a deep crisis, possibly the deepest in a century. Reverence will continue to support the actions of the management board, which can lead companies and who can lead the working life and the nation out of difficult circumstances. We all understand the danger of this shock, but there are other warning signs here that also need attention, e.g. the ways the government has chosen to face danger. Under these circumstances, the General must be allowed to carry out his role. Under these circumstances, democratic discussion is not a problem. On the contrary, the discussion is never more important than right now. Right now, it is important to have the political courage to deal with ideas. We will have a choice, and we will have to refuse, and without a political debate, the General will not be able to protect the public's interests as it is intended. The government has to ask questions, and it must be granted to the management board. The requirement to obey the majority is not solidarity, it is a requirement for subjugation. The situation calls for a serious debate on ideologies, priorities, and future vision. It requires that we do more than respond. We are to look forward to the future, for experience in the event of an event teaches us that, as a result, there are also times when there is a general opportunity in changed circumstances. This direct and open conversation about ideas is therefore desirable not only now but also necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u46	A respectable president. I can tell the pleasant news that my first work this morning, just before nine o'clock, was to go to the tower in a small square and have my blood taken to see if I have antibodies to Covid-19, if I have had the virus. I was surprised to learn that I was tested. I got a straw up my nose and a pin into my neck that was very uncomfortable and discovered what a relatively large part of the nation has had to go through. I really hope that I've had this shit because if I haven't had it, I'm just saying, "God help us." Then there's two things going on that's really bad. But what is next? What about the lives of Covid? What is strange about this situation that we have recently experienced is that road deaths, accidents, or other causes of death have so gone. At the same time, deaths due to the virus have been significant. But comparison shows that death at the same time a year ago was similar to that of today. So we are in a position to ask ourselves what we will do. Are we going back to the same routine? Should we, then, say that it is all right for people to die in car accidents or car accidents? What about all those waiting for hospital action? That's so serious, let me know. Then, too, we need to think: " What next? What's next? We know something's coming. Covid-20? I don't know, but something's coming.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u47	A respectable president. The Covid pandemic has many manifestations and consequences, not just the familiar disease, but others that cause anxiety and cannot be found silent. I'm talking about domestic violence that is primarily directed against women and children. After the Korean epidemic began to spread, stories about more and more dangerous violence began to be spread to women. From Brazil to Germany, from Italy to China, the stories of domestic violence are spread in social isolation, contagion, meeting, or outings. Reports of domestic violence increased more than tripled as an example in the Hubei region of China during curfew. The number of women who died of domestic violence during the first three weeks after a curfew in Britain was the highest in the eleven years. The secretary - general of the United Nations has urged governments to put too much emphasis on prevention and antiviolence against women in their response to Covid-19, and this is certainly not without reason. A respectable president. In this country, our experts who are involved in the affairs of violence have said that people who use violence find it very easy to use the situation in society as yet another weapon against their victims, especially women of foreign origin who do not know exactly where to turn. The Marshal has confirmed that domestic violence reports have increased recently to a significant extent, perhaps about 10%. These are serious signs. We must keep on the watch. That's a solidarity. We need action, implemented by our best specialists and treatments because there are certainly treatments. We need to stand awake and respond. Finally: Happy wage workers with tomorrow, May 1, who now have an unusual appearance of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u48	Mr. President. I suggest we decide here and now that a research committee will be set up to make up the economic actions that are currently under attack for the crash. Thus, an announcement at this point, the investigation of the response to this crash, will be effective as a powerful maintenance of the economic decisions taken today. Government and government banks are now introduced to take all kinds of measures against companies and people. It's an amazing move on money, and decisions about which company to live and which companies will die are now taken. It is now more than 11 years since the collapse of the bank. In the collapse, things went wrong. Less than 30 Icelandic bankers were sentenced to illegal prisons. Some government and bank operations became very controversial, but it was decided to set up a powerful research committee with virtually unlimited authority to settle matters, and even banks were suspended. Although these two collapses are physically similar and there is no evidence of a violation of the law in this collapse, it is clear that many decisions made by governments and other persons will be passed over. Some will be paid for by public or others, but without transparency the operation will not be reliable. And while the causes of this collapse may be more clear than the causes of the last collapse, the actions that governments and businesses are taking because of this collapse need to be considered. Mr. President. So now is the time to determine that all stones will be rolled about in the future. In this way, we will ensure best transparency and maintenance, but not least equality in current measures. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u49	Mr. President. During these days, we have been given the opportunity to see a co-opposed administration based on the best available data and to share it freely to the public. It's the government that's holding public health and public protection. Unfortunately, economic management is not the same. There's no consultation. More detailed and more information is needed. To prepare for the flood of myths that now seem to be wash-out, the government introduced its third piece of action just before the month's meeting. Introductory ideas were not fully implemented. This is a clear indication that the government has entered the emergency unit that we must have a clear understanding of, a major problem we need to solve. I'd like to stay here with the suggestion to support a company to pay off the notice. For participation in these measures, there will be a closer requirement, in order to form the management of an enterprise. Would that not be necessary? In what position does a company decide to resign employees today because of the resource but eventually do not meet its requirements? In that case, the time line is thought - provoking. This will be on the way from May 1. So the actions will be long under way when the bill finally comes to the hands of the General Assembly. So, what position will the General be in? Finally, you may ask, " Is my state - to - house resignation really the solution to the problem? ' True, reports started and more were coming along, but there will be more, since the government offers to give up each report by 2.5 million. K. During the part-time improvement process, a business to support people's work is now to encourage companies to quit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u50	Mr. President. The recent discussions in this hall have been made about our forward patrols, which have staked their lives so that the people could get through without delay the hardships they now experience. First of all, I'm talking about our nurses, who have risked their lives to be very sick and who are sure to play a major role in the death of Iceland by the crown virus, with the lowest of all the world's population. This class of nurses was rewarded with an inaccessible collective contract that was formally signed yesterday, and it is urgent that they are now to sit down with these parties and make a proper agreement that can be supported. The class I'd like to make up here are police officers who over ten years ago risked their lives by protecting this house and those in it. The prize they received after that was that a bargain could not be fixed because it was a crisis. According to one estimate, they cannot still be rewarded. They have had countless meetings where the government has offered them the same contract over and over again. Policemen have been forced to advertise in newspapers and explain to the nation what this situation is like. Mr. President. This is the government of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir, to shame. Now it has to be a blow to meet police officers and to correct their rights as they deserve. It looks like, Mr. President, it's like this class is being nagged because it doesn't have the right to strike. This is not acceptable, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] This needs to be adjusted and corrected right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u51	V.E.G. President. It's always a pleasure when you get well fished. Grey - free fishing in the present season has done tremendous success, which has brought great joy to the point that early humans can remember one more catch. Prior to this season, a fishing minister issued, following counselling of Merro, 4,650 tons of salad to catch on a gray patch. Each boat with a grey-free pass applying for fishing was assigned 44 days. The bad news in this relationship is that if you continue to look at it, this 4,650 tons will be distributed in less than a week. Many boats have just begun fishing, and still others have not gone fishing. For example, every 20 May, the inside of the Brefue was only one - year - old, and no boat is going gray by this spring. Last year some 1,500 tons were fished there. In that area, there are three gray-collar workouts waiting for raw materials to be exported. Marine Ministers in the past few years have followed counseling Corro in the distribution of stock markets every time in all fish caught at Icelanders. Sustainable fishing for fishermen is part of responsible fishing management, and I have often used talks and subscribed to them. Yet, I have felt that the measurement began as a result of hunting for advice that a gray patch caught by a tug of tugs does not provide the correct picture of the gray patch strain at any time. For some reason, this species of fish is now as never before, so it is heading for about 150 of the tyrians and related parties to suffer because of this year's collapse. We must do everything in human power to keep our work going as far as possible, especially in this unprecedented era of world crisis with Covid-19.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u52	President. It is quite normal to be answered here at the General Assembly when the chairman of the European Union Society speaks of the arrival of Generalis in potential strikes. There is, of course, nothing more than a covert threat of seeking help from the Generals to legalize the poorest staff staff in the community. It is quite normal when such a ball is given up by the president of the official treasurs, to the arrival of Generalis that such an answer is made here. I'd like to point out that if the U.S. Council can interfere with this and take away the lowest paid people in the country's affairs, then the rights of the local community can also be taken into account in order to accept contracts that are minimally in accordance with the well-being agreements that Reykjavíkurburg made with the child's well-being. It is possible to do the same, with the best of children at first. Make up. Look for examples of the well - being contracts of Reykjavík, and join your children.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u53	The president assumes that there is a problem. A senator was reacting that the president made comments and encouraged him. A senator to be balanced in his choice of words. The president was not making comments on what he could do. A senator arranged. On these two, there is a fundamental difference. The president would like to comment on this in the second place that the President of Generalis is commissioned under constitution and Constitution to direct Generalis meetings, including the order of order. When the presidents on each side see reasons to comment on the use of words, language, or direct recommendation to members of Congress to be moderate in word selection, these statements are final. They will not be appealed, and they will not be discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u54	President. It is minimum that the president backs up his decision, he would argue whatever comment I had upstairs to fit. I said that the decision to lay laws on the lowest paid people in the country, who own the poorest children in the country, was against child abuse. I think so. Is it because of that word? Was it that I said that the president of the Union should have a decent time in or should be ashamed? I will cut these talks together and the conversation here with the President. It is minimal that the president, if he intends to interfere with the speech of members of Congress and hence interfere with our freedom of speech, would argue on any word that is unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u55	It is unusual for presidents to offer kindly comments to members of Congress to look after the use of word - language moderation. That's unusual. Then it is not customary to specify specifically what it was that prompted the president's need to give such kindly counsel. That's unusual. If the president finds out that the members of Parliament are to be consulted, he must state the wide - range comments. That's a different thing. The president repeats that the decisions or comments made by a president of this sort who agrees to maintain a good order at meetings are not under discussion. They are final, they cannot be appealed, and they are not for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u56	President. Now, if it's once the president who makes this decision that must not appeal or discuss, which is strange to begin with, we have a certain freedom of speech with this speaker, I would like to speak to the President and ask exactly what it was so that we can fit ourselves in this future saying. Should I repeat a portion of my talk and see if I can get comments? Well, it's now this way of elimination, whether it was this or the other thing that we're supposed to be looking out for in the future. Of course, it is very reasonable to find out what was so reprehensible in the speech so that we can look at the subject as permissible or something that the president himself may have made and might want to revise that judgment himself. No one can appeal to anything other than the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u57	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize public support for investments in wands and innovation companies. By means of the bill, a new fund will be owned by the United States of England, whose name is Kía. The purpose of Krista is to promote Icelandic activities by making large investments in the sceptres and innovations. Kría will do this by participating in the establishment of the so-called index funds which then invest directly in sceptres and innovations. In this process, the government encourages greater investments in innovation companies, as well as the high level of knowledge in the structure of companies, which are highly involved in the development, shape and growth of the enterprises they invest in. A developer who starts a business on the basis of an idea that has the potential to grow rapidly sometimes lacks expertise in a business enterprise which may be responsible for their growth in cleaning. The ideas are also often short - lived and therefore not considered investment options. In the modern business world, it is a realistic problem that in the early stages of growth, it is often quite difficult for companies to make money for further development and management. It is recognized that, at this stage, the public plays a vital role in supporting the development of emerging enterprises and helping them to hatch. However, the way it is done and the way it is designed to become part of the Kría institution is addressed to the private wealth and the expertise involved in evaluating investment opportunities and thus choosing the right companies and right pioneers to invest in. Thus it will not directly invest in companies, it will invest in specialized funds on a common investment, which, in turn, invests in companies. Thus, the representatives of the State will not choose the enterprises invested in, but will follow the government budget granted to Koria. Thus, it is important that the purpose of Kía is not to maximise the interest of public funds by investments but to contribute to a better funding environment for the sceptre and innovation of companies, thus supporting the development of Icelandic employment. The amount of money in English called ◯visture capital, and indicators are specialized and designed investment funds that are best invested in technology and innovation companies where there is a high risk and, as a result, have little to do with financing. Science funds are one form of initiative funds, which are especially set up to participate in innovation projects. In addition to funding, indicator funds share experience, knowledge, and connections to other investors. In recent years the environment of innovation in Iceland has changed, and it is important to look to policy-making for the next 20 years. The government has long played a prominent role in the funding of innovation, e.g. Through the Technical Development Fund, refunds for research and development and through the Organic Fund of employment, but in order for the environment of innovation to become sustainable, global competitive and can live up to the growth necessary for Iceland, private funds will have to participate richly in the road. However, the effect of index funds on economic growth, innovation, and creation has been investigated. Research has shown that the increase in index amount has a major impact on innovation, patent registration, economic growth and creation. We regularly look to our neighboring countries when it comes to the introduction of the official action. For example, the establishment of the Scientific and Technical Council is a Finnish role model. If we look at the official organisations involved in the funding of newer enterprises, we are closer to Tesi in Finland or to the medical department in Denmark, both of which are public investment funds. Tesi has invested mainly in funds and has long been helping to support the development of index funds and initiatives in Finland, as well as to introduce Finnish international employment and support economic growth in Finland. Investigating this, Vestfonden is an independent investment fund owned by the dances of the state and invested, including the U.S.A. through VF Venture, the index fund owned by the Dr. Phystophonden, directly in companies. Like Vækstfonden, Phystfonden invests a single complex with other investors that meet conditions, such as having knowledge or a network that can be used for the economy. It is reasonable to look at these examples that our neighboring countries have set up and run some time when we observe Icelandic exports. As shown in the bill's report, you can also look further for effective experience in building an investment environment for the index fund. The Yoza plan in Israel is a good example, but it has led to Israel's becoming one of the countries in which most sceptical and innovations, research and development are an important part of the economy. The bill I recommend here makes a law frame around an institution and business for Karia. With the head of Crime, there will be five people who will make decisions about investments in specialized funds. The board will be independent and will not accept orders from others. The application will be followed by applications for participation in the Crime programme in other developed funds. The meeting of the funds providers' conditions for the entrance of Kísa will make investments in them and thus increase the funds used to invest in wands. It will not take the initiative in its investments but will invest in any fund that wishes it to be provided that they meet the requirements set in Regulation. Depending on the budget and the number of applications each time, the amount of investment you have in Kría can be in each fund, although in Article 3. The bill suggested a maximum investment of 30% of the total amount of the total fund or 2 billion. This ensures that public funds will always be in memory and in order to gain the entrance of Karia that investors need to be prepared to invest much of their own money, since the bill's purpose is to increase investments in sceptres and innovation companies. As mentioned earlier, a fund that wishes for the entrance to Korea will have to meet certain requirements. The requirements are to promote the environment of the NGOs in Iceland. As I mentioned earlier, experience in other nations shows that it is desirable for innovation and for the intensive growth of sceptre companies to have a powerful environment for the NGOs. To that end, there are conditions for the participation of Kía, which include a lot of flea investment funds that do not have the same purpose as the indexes and would thus not contribute to investments in companies where marketing failure is at first level, as is true of many starters. The conditions that will be set take into account the effectiveness of other nations in building up the environment of the dierent investors and in some respects adapting to Icelandic realities. It is not necessary, nor is it desirable, for the law itself to require conditions, as this is not generally done abroad and needs to be assessed for its effectiveness during the operation of Crime, taking into account how they work to achieve the goal of the bill. However, there is considerable publicity in the bill's report on the key conditions that will be set and that the regulations under the terms of the regulations will, of course, open up before being legalized. It is important to keep in mind that it is not a goal for a Kría institution to direct investments into certain sectors, depending on the decision made by the government. The aim is to provide a healthy environment for the index fund, which will be useful again to Icelandic sceptre companies in increasing access to ventures and management knowledge and the growth of sceptres. It will only be achieved by the objective public in which sector interests become investing and postponing professional investors on the market. The idea that Kora's establishment was introduced last November in the sceptres and innovations fund. The development of Korea is one of the action that will be undertaken on the basis of the vision presented in Iceland's innovation policy, which includes the development of a mature environment for the funding of innovation, which in turn leads to increased competitiveness of industry and more opportunities for scientists and pioneers. The basis for a fruitful innovation is education, science, research, technology, powerful intelligence, and, above all, money to make the ideas come true. In countries where governments have used similar methods of promoting investments in innovation companies and are proposed to become part of this bill, it has produced a number of companies that have reached early stages of growth and create valuables and high-tech jobs for society. The aim for the development of Kía and the basis for a innovation policy for Iceland is that Iceland will be an ideal land for intelligent innovation based on sound infrastructure and efficient investments. Kría will be presented internationally to establish links with foreign investors who might be interested in investments in Icelandic redundant companies. Recently, we have seen the increased interest of foreign investors in Icelandic sceptres and investments in Icelandic companies for a considerable amount of money. These investments show how important it is for this country to become an international and competitive investment environment for the innovations that Kía will support the continuing development from the present level. Icelandic life now faces tremendous challenges that are of an unknown magnitude. Like the government, strong resistance is needed, and further measures are planned. In times like these, new ideas and new solutions are necessary. The government's emphasis on innovation and good work for the procrastinator companies as well as all other companies in the country will, in my opinion, lead to our becoming stronger than ever from the waves we are in. A respectable president. After this discussion, I suggest that the matter be passed through 2nd. ... andwhat. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u58	A respectable president. We'll deal with a bill on official support for investments in wands and innovation companies. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of this Kristian Fund will be assured of enough funds because in the discussion not long ago, the arrival of pension funds was referred to as a source of innovation and development funds and an increase in money to them, up to 50 billion dollars. that they could put into it. Of course, as we realize, this is a risky investment. The question, though, is whether the State was going to oppose the same. In this context, the maximum share of Kría is 30% or 2 billion. That would be 6 billion dollars. A treasure that would take 2 billion to himself. It's a very good thing, and it's just the best thing because it doesn't give us the benefit of innovation, and particularly in the context that we need to promote innovation so that we are self-sustained in food production and other things. One that gives e.g. What an opportunity today is new about movies and the sector! Everything has been frozen, and it is even possible that we will become one of the first nations to accomplish that work fully. I ask: How much money will be in this fund, and how soon will it start?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u59	Mr. President. In the bill now held before the council, we are, in fact, speeding up the Kría Institute. We had expected 150 million this year, but this amount has now been suggested to increase considerably. Now that we're measuring the case, they're going to need their regular treatment. I hope we're doing a real fast and effective job of setting up Kría so that we can get the fund started. We now have some 7,650 million for the establishment of this new fund, so we can say that capital support exists. As far as the pension fund is concerned, the key is the interaction with their investments and the authority to increase the share today of 20% in the law to 35%. The Crime and Pension Association, if they took advantage of these sources, if the bill became a law here, the environment would grow even more and there would be more money in circulation for these ideas, which my idea would be a great improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u60	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. Yes, I completely agree that there would definitely be improvement. What I'm thinking about, let's say that it's going to be around 7 billion, maybe I'm afraid that the pension fund will say, the state puts out 7 billion, why don't we also put out to 7 billion? The question is, Should the State not take a similar risk and is being encouraged to accept the pension fund? The pension fund, of course, is a product of future pension, and we know that investment in innovations is a risky investment, but it can result in very good fruitage for both the pensions and the pensioners paid from the fund. I just wondered if the state has any plan B to add up to this and watch how fast the trend will be, how many funds will be established, how many companies collect the fund, and whether it lacks funding so that the fund can be ready to step in if the need becomes greater than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u61	Mr. President. It's certainly hard to tell how much it's going to be worth trying to get into Kría, hopefully for the most. Hopefully, these funds will go out because it means that there's a lot of movement in this environment and on these markets. Of course, we are today with other devices, such as the creation fund, which, as the situation is today, are actually owned by the government. However, this fund is not intended to choose the winners but to ensure that the environment will become more competitive, stronger, and more mature, thus increasing the likelihood that good ideas will become reality. In reality, we just follow the market to meet these criteria, do not take sides with the type of company involved. But if there is a government estimate that more money is needed in the fund, that is something we will have time to deal with. At first, the most important thing is that the matter is being treated by Congress, controlled by the management and implementation of the Regulation, developed, and then replaced by a clearer framework of the fund, and then established for the progress of the projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u62	Mr. President. Perhaps it is first true that this is a very positive bill in many respects. It seems that there has been a very long lack of indicators in Iceland, and the starters have had difficulty attracting it in some cases. It's just a lot of good injections into that environment, so I can't wait to see what this fund can do. But there are still a few things on the bill that we need to go over and we'll do on the Economic and Business Committee. It's one of three. Which bothers me, but according to her on the business, is actually to be placed in the hands of a private member. Then you begin to wonder if those private people could not end up having some sort of interest, which is, in effect, being in service to them by making such a deal, or if they should not further use the knowledge that exists within the system today. at Rannis's. There is knowledge of the environment. You would have thought that in order to get it up as fast as possible, it would have been quicker to use the established environment that exists, even if another religion could eventually be started. Use of the existing source environment may allow us to move faster, but it's right by the highest level. Ministers that there is a great need for the fund and that putting it up as soon as possible should be a key factor.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u63	Mr. President. We've been trying to win this case so that we're limiting the building and we're working with it and we've been having a conversation with the New World Fund that he's taking over this management because there's knowledge and support. It clearly says that we are removing from the fund to expel him, and we want to take as little as possible. The project goes on to make a deal with the NSA to assign it to the fund, but it will, of course, become a special government and all of it. But the goal is to limit the structure to the extent possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u64	Mr. President. There's something interesting about this answer at the highest. A minister in the bill is generally referred to as putting the county into the hands of third parties, and it seems that the third party has been decided. I don't know what it looks like. But I wondered, " Why wasn't it gone that way that's gone in a lot of states around us - instead of setting up a fund with a little overlay, or what we would commonly call a little wood, little ability to control themselves on their own terms - to create a developing bank? ' It is a model that has worked very well in the countries around us and in the world's most industrialized countries. I feel that this fund will always have limited ability because of the emphasis on having a so-called little overgrowth, i.e. little infrastructure and independent capacity.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u65	Mr. President. Of course, on this project we will use the existing source of the environment and will only be allowed to show how the projects in the Kristian Fund develop. But it is important to be very careful that Kía is a completely independent unit with its own personal government and goals. This question is, why didn't we get on it, if I understand correctly, to set up a developing bank? The answer is that we've worked on this for a considerable time, to set up a fund like this, from the time my predecessor, the Ragnhes of Árnadóttir, and others cooperated with MIT. The conclusion was that this was the most missing link in the chain. Then we've been working on it. It's also what comes out of Iceland's innovation policy, that this is the kind of project that needs to be fought by the government to develop and develop this environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u66	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for excellent advance. I'm glad that this bill has been released, and I think it will become a law in the spirit it has been proposed to be a definitely progressive step. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on points related to the bill at least In an indirect way. First of all, although it's only the name, it's been referred to as "Breast Support" and it's, of course, a mental connection to this fund. It is said that the plan is to offer a temporary return to investments in sceptre companies, to meet specific criteria, under the name Support Crea. The question is, Has it been shaped? Who cares for it? Is it the New Creation Fund of industry, or what will it be like? Have you decided which funds to contribute to this project? When will it be formalized? I cannot quickly see that it is funded in the budgets we are considering right now. It would be interesting to know. Then I'd like to know how to do it. Ministers see the interaction of the New Creation Fund in themselves with such a fund. As mentioned in the case of the highest. Ministers previously in response investing the New creation Fund directly in companies, in fact investing in index funds as well. More important, what is the financial status of the New World Translation Fund and its investments? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u67	Mr. President. With regard to the idea of Sturdy Victoria, I'll agree with it. Senator, I was just wondering if we were somehow getting involved with the Korean idea by talking about Sturdy Crime. My job interview was always talking about terns, because this is something that only starts to save what will be saved by a Covid situation. It is, in fact, just a limited and temporary effort to meet it, in some cases, that may happen in this situation. Just as we have other options that are then entrusted to the banking system, there are other measures to be taken in this environment than in the traditional financial environment. The idea is that the New World Fund of industry will take over the management of this Covid rescue operation, thought to follow through. We're working on this estimate, how the money will be divided, and that's something I also have to discuss with a financial and business committee simply, whether it's the committee that needs to be divided or if it's allowed to be entrusted to us in the near future. We just need to see how this goes, tomorrow it's May, and this case is set before the council. When will it be settled? How long can you expect to put control and get the rules out? Actually, it is a priority for Klei, but what is practical to produce a lot of money from this total number in the Krissis project, and it is also necessary to feel a little bit of the need for the other. This evaluation is running.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u68	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Just so that there is no misunderstanding on my part, that the funding for the Support of the European Union that the New World Fund will be entrusted to the management of the economy is part of the 1,200 million that are designed for the Crimea.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u69	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u70	I know the highest. Whether there are or are in the frame of index, which would be able to make quick an investment of the Kristian Fund a new one?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u71	Mr. President. First of all, a question in the previous year's answer to the New Arts Fund: I don't have an exact figure on the financial situation, but it's at least Don't mess with me any particular problems there. I understand the annual meeting, if I remember correctly, is next week. They've done all right in that way. You know, about a question or two. The senator and I are today with several funds that have not all been funded to the top. Some are beginning to think that the institution of the next fund, for instance, has done quite well in their work. We have also experienced interest abroad, and these funds also tell us that when they go abroad, Iceland is an investment. I think it can be a very exciting project, when these funds get a little clearer frame and rules on what Kía exactly is, it can also help us to be ambassadors in another area to allow this to be possible here. I hope it also comes from abroad, which is not only to increase the money in traffic, but also to teach us, to get our experience and knowledge from outside.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u72	Mr. President. The fund that stands to form with this bill, the Kara, is like an umbrella organization for a special fund that invests in innovation companies. However, Kía is not a fund that pioneers pick up directly from. At any rate, this has not been shown in the discussion of the Kristian Fund. It is, therefore, only natural to ask, What is the difference between Crime, this new fund, and then the New World Fund of industry? Alternatively, e.g. Kría buys a share in it? A paper with the bill in chapter 2 states: The success of an enterprise, which is strongly or almost conclusive, of intelligent terms other than the financing of established employment roads, may be the basis for the payment of banks or bond markets. Therefore, it is important for government policies to support targeted development in innovation - driving areas and to promote the growth of sceptical and innovation companies, as well as to ensure that in Iceland there is access to capitals that are specialised for such activities. It is reasonable to ask, then, if this means that the special funds Kría is going to invest in should be put in, for example. young men with computers or innovations in the fishing road. The growing number of funds that pioneers can seek is good, as long as they are open - minded and not all the eggs in the same basket, as they say, and became with the Biodiversity Fund in 2000 when the so - called technical buffers exploded. But what is missing most for pioneers at an early stage is resistant funds and that each project will be evaluated and invested as long as necessary until a prototype has proven itself. It does not mean to provide funding for a three - year job if the project is large and extensive to see that it does not run out in such a short time. There are too many tasks left behind in the Valley of Death, so to speak, a task that requires this patient support, and more time to prove itself. Clearly, all are real and efficient support for innovation in the good, and in this new Krista Fund, it is supposed to put a lot of money. Of course, contributions to innovation are being made. It is important, however, that this money is useful to innovation, not that it is like any other bank operation with rapid growth and failure to be patient. It's been the problem, e.g. ... atthenewnavigationof employment. His investments have been attributed to quick gains, not to laying risks on innovation projects. As such, e.g. Early development projects have been excluded from the assistance of this fund, so the question is much more important in this context and here on this discussion whether it is being followed in the same direction. At first glance, it seems to me that this fund does not provide sufficient benefit to small pioneers and groups in the early stages of innovation. They simply have too little money and, unfortunately, some of the ways in which they are often overcrowded. That's what it's like, for example. the reaction of the government to the current situation of injecting, some increase in money, in innovation. Of course, that's wise, and we in the media support it. However, it seems to be the most necessary procedure for this same process, in technology funds, for example. I don't think that's enough of a thought to me. It's just trying to do something fast without giving sufficient thought to where the money is best and which groups will need it and who will be left behind. It is where humans must pay very close attention. That's why I think it would have been even closer to enriching other funds, putting this increased contribution in, while strengthening other funds working alongside, for example. Technological Development Fund, to form Power Fund. In fact, there is a need to improve the quality of the material wealth. In many respects, though, technology reserves are fine and offer a variety of resources. But it is always bad if, so to speak, a single institution has totalitarian authority, about who gets the crucial lifeline needed by an early concept and who is not of this important issue. Since the reign of 2017, the government operates according to a government covenant, and it makes promises to the nation, including the people. for the development of intelligence and innovation. It says, with the permission of a president: ◯New creation and the practicality of intelligence is an important basis for a wide range of employment life, a strong competitive position, the economic growth and the well - being of the nations, and, of course, it will be accepted. Furthermore, the government will work to make the conditions of the country's pioneers and start companies outstanding. In the introduction of a new creation policy says: ▪ The most important source of innovation is the thinking of individuals. It is where we can expect to find the solutions and answers that will continue to make it possible to offer an outstanding quality of life in a rural land. All of these are beautiful, meaningful words and good words. The government might therefore expect to promote the work of intellectuals and provide them with an adequate environment. Braves and pioneers have two kinds of interests. It's MNU representing the Agency of pioneers and inventors and then KENN, which stands for women in innovation. These fine communities work in the spirit of the goals that governments and ministers set up in their quoted statements and work closely together. Thus, these communities must expect the government's support of their assignments and activities, but they do not. This fine organization has twice applied for strength, not for high strength, from governments in order to maintain its good work, and twice this request has been rejected. Of course, this needs to be reasoned. I think it's right to trace it because these beautiful promises of the government have not returned to them all. They're more in word than on table, at least When it comes to these important little comrades, stakeholders. SHH and KENN are the only interest groups of intelligent people in the country. They enjoyed a release from the government, and most of them were 2013 but then began to decline each year. Since 2017, at the time of government intervention, these associates have been denied strength requests, and no evidence is behind them, even though it remains. You should point to some important reasons why these associates should be backed up. Can be used there, e.g. Consider the so - called peer instruction to pioneers for whom these societies represent. The registered members of the SFH andKNN are in the fourth hundred who are working and very interested in innovation. Of course, it's time to back up some of these pioneers. Within this group, there is a wide range of education and an enormous amount of experience and precious experience for those who intend to establish a new creation to be able to spend time together and talk. New recruits have obtained advice from these organisations on where to seek professional advice, sponsorship, etc. and what should be avoided in the early stages. Since then, even the funds have given their opinion of the pioneers in the event that they are looking for them. Most important, though, is the guidance and motivation to discuss matters with others who have been in the same position when it comes to pioneering. In this regard, these fine communities have had counseling services that have yielded good results. It has been under the direction of the officers of the comrades who share tasks between members according to their nature. It should be noted that all these peer - education programs have been performed in volunteer work. You're right to keep it up. In comparison, a legal advisory service at the New Creation Center is fired by people on the salary of a government fund. Although there may be access to people with more education and access to more education, it is not on that peer base as I traced it here. Hence, this is a group operation, which in all respects serves the purposes of the government that I have traced and is stated in the government covenant. The laws represent communication and education for intelligent workers, and they usually include educational events monthly open to members and their guests, and they are often multi-packed. Examples of such events include e.g. The lectures and presentations of various sources of funds in the innovation environment, a presentation in a private secret office, a presentation of law firms, a presentation of small companies, projects management, a presentation of foreign colleagues and a presentation of a number of projects in various areas, e.g. in the field of computer technology and production. Under these circumstances, there are also a number of visits to a work enterprise that is either initiated by pioneers or that has innovation as an important part of its activities. In this way not only is it designed to promote education but it promotes the use of intelligence. All of this has been the volunteer work of those at that time, with costs, such as. in meeting positions, office positions, and so on, these companies have applied for assistance. It can be explained here that for the last financial expenditure, both these more than 400 members attended by a total of 5 billion. K. the government could not, despite the wonderful promises of the government covenant to promote innovation and all that follows, which I have traced here. President, it must be said at the moment that this is extremely sad. I'm putting it up here because now the government is showing that she's going to put more money on it. Hence, she is to support a group like this one who is doing an important volunteer work year after year. There is only so much people can do in volunteer work. There are costs and so on. I would like to use this opportunity to encourage a minister, especially in this matter, to provide these associates, intelligent organizations, and women's organisations with the strength to continue their important work, which has brought great success to all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u73	Mr. President. I think and I know this case is basically very good. This is a very important thing. It greatly improves the setting of so-called index investors, i.e. Investments in well-developed companies that can have a future. There's government support and financial support from private investors, even from pension funds after incidents, so I think it's very important. These funds have the characteristics that they control people, i.e. The indicators, which have a lot of experience and knowledge in investments in innovation and often enter enterprises a very important knowledge and experience and guidelines for the growth and survival of these important enterprises, all of which are competing to become large and create a lot of income and employment depending on events. It is important that we talk about innovation and funding in innovation make a very clear distinction between what is strong and assistance and support, which is certainly very important, and then when investing in partners. There's a big difference. And then there is the third category, which is a loan. It's different. This money is different and serves different purposes. I think it's taking a very important step here. I think it would be wise for the council to speed up the case so that there could be a law in us, I think it is very important, because it has to do with other innovation programmes. As never before, we need to keep looking in the long run. Conditions are the least unusual in society, all of us know that. We've often said that to ourselves, and we've been told many times that we need to have a more varied job life in Iceland. Although the occasion may not be what one would have wanted, we are now in a position to make a concerted effort to do more. There may not be results tomorrow, not next month, but in time, this will make a difference for us. So we should think deeply about these matters and must be bold when we make decisions about how to organize them in that area and how to provide funds. I'd like to use this opportunity to say that at the same time and we're doing this, we're supposed to do a little better in supporting and adding funds to funds like technology fund, Research Fund, and Weld Fund. It's a fund that gives strength. They provide support for applications on the basis of quality projects and we know that distribution rates are very low. There are a number of tasks that could well be started and that are promising but unable to succeed. That's very bad. I just wanted to say these few words here, because I think this is an important part of raising the environment, attracting more people with capitalism. This can therefore open a door to a foreign country to collect money. It is now that even though it is an important investment or venture, risk investments are still as safe as possible, although it is in itself to contradict them. When it is clear that governments are supporting matters with a powerful system of funding and then with a more advanced access to the subsidiary funds, this is of utmost importance to those who have the highest financial resources and who are specialized in innovations, seeking their investment tools. This is of utmost importance. Therefore, I would like to encourage the world of Congress and all of us to think on this matter, as well as on other emerging issues related to it, depending on our success in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u74	A respectable president. I wanted to draw attention to the overall context in this matter. There's a relatively large amount of innovation in the government's packages, but I don't think it's enough of the innovation devices we have, especially in basic research that really give us a chance for the future. You can see that in a number of areas. If we only talk about the innovation environment, e.g. There was a lot of parishion in the game industry. There are many companies to do very exciting things in that area. You see, we have to stop this economy based on few major sectors. Somehow, we're always getting all out to new opportunities, and we always go around in them. That's how it was in the fishing road back in the days when the fairy tale was done, we've done it by force, it takes 80% of all the energy produced here, which is crazy. The bank house, that was the same, we went over into the financial sector, and the latest is the tourism industry. He had become the largest industry in Iceland, all right with it in a sense, but it creates this risk of smallpox, and the vaccine finally exploded. It was not necessarily the same on the basis of the previous large articles, of course not. But that is exactly what it is. This is never the same reason why the bubble explodes, but it always explodes somehow. And when it explodes, it hits us hard because it's practically the big one. In recent years, we have been giving tax returns to the tourist industry, reasoning that taxes are being paid worldwide in the tourism industry. However, it is also a special decision to provide tax appeals, which were for this condition, the largest article in Iceland, in terms of income or import and export. Then we are deliberately giving certain market managers the tax will instead of using the tax will to develop a larger and varied range of professions than we Icelanders have had, with two, three, four basic roads. I just wanted to draw attention to this in view of the opportunities, though there are a lot of them in the present situation, starting in basic research. There is simply not enough work to support the vision of the future produced in basic research. By doing so, we will be willing to face the challenges of tomorrow rather than experience the groundhog's day over and over again. It is of utmost importance to start with basic research because it provides an opportunity for today. There is vegetation; where is the dust of the new birth. This puts extra funding on her and puts more emphasis on her, from other sources of good experience, a pattern that is good. But the dust from which the innovation can grow comes from basic research, and in that gear, we definitely need to put ourselves in and do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u75	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to correct the changing of the European Commission Actual Fund for tourist positions. The objective of the bill is to re-established the law's field of values in the light of the aim of promoting sustainable development, balance and regional development in accordance with national programmes and plans such as destination plans or, by permission of presidents, ◯Destination Management Plans ◯. Therefore, the directive will reflect the emphasis on regional development, a project that the regions have carried out in recent and recent policy development, and will improve the distribution of tourists. Regional development will continue to gain independence in the evaluation of the fund's funds for funding the fund. Other changes made by the bill are that travel routes, in view of the definition of the concept of the national legislation on the structure of infrastructure for protection of nature and cultural memory, are robust. This refers merely to hiking, riding, and bicycle routes, but the roads are not considered to be what they call an assignment under another Ministry, as well as to which they are generally of magnitude that is in no position within the financial resources of this fund. Then, in the bill, it adds to the simple provision of the current law on a project for which the fund gives strength, as well as with full doubt that national development programmes for the construction of infrastructure for the protection of nature and cultural memory are not insurmountable. So here it is suggested that exceptions be removed from 2017, which was designed to ensure that tasks did not fall between ships and docks. Since there is now good experience in the interaction fund of tourism and national programmes, it is no longer considered a reason to recommend such an exception to the law. In 2011, the European Commission's budget was originally set up, and in recent years the fund's collections have worked hard to develop and maintain tourist facilities throughout a country that has security and protection. In view of the work done over the past few years, especially in connection with government policies and the development of national policy plans, I now felt that it was important to contribute to this change in understanding of the values of the law. Government policies, including those of the United States In the future, and guided by Icelandic tourism to the year 2030, European tourism will lead to sustainable development. There are three supporting, economic, social, and environmental equilibrium. Of course, it is slightly odd to discuss this sustainable development with regard to three support, such as economic support, in this situation, but we hope to get to that place as soon as possible. In order to help us keep our balance, we have also developed a balance policy that shows us the position of a number of indicators on the three dimensions of sustainable development at one time. The target protocols of the part of the country are then part of regional development, which is increasingly relevant to decision-making of tourism sites. Adding a reference to regional development into the law's terms results in a tangible social benefit by taking greater consideration for local policies. For a long time, I have spoken that the territory knows best how their best interests are. A respectable president. Despite the turbulent seas that our tourism is now moving through, I believe it is important that we keep the course that has already been determined and do not give a discount of the guidance we have set for us to be leading in sustainable development. It is my firm faith that in this way we will reach the seawaters and come out even stronger and better prepared in calmer waters. That's why I think it's important that we make good use of this challenging time to live for a better time, including the better. ... witha change of law like the ones I recommend here. After the discussion, I suggest the matter be passed through 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u76	A respectable president. We're dealing with a bill to correct the transition to the European Commission Act on Tourist Positions, Goals, and Roles. This is the best, and it would be even more so if this were the best thing for everyone than the one that hit me sadly in this bill, and I'd like to ask the highest level of questions. For more information, please contact the branch office of Jehovah's Witnesses or write to the publishers of this magazine. 4. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ On the other hand, self - preservation of motorists revealed that it was not the aim of the European Commission to ensure that all the people had access to the tourist attractions that it did not require in the law that building up which was funded should be based on perspectives on absolute design. This is a serious matter. That certainly points to law No. 160/2010, about construction, and we know how it works. We know how it seems to have been made a box that everyone looks in, and they refuse to see that there are people outside the box who can't use what's in the box, can't use public buildings, can't take advantage of public travel sites. According to this, injustice continues. When does this government intend to pull up its pants and make sure that human rights are respected and that the law on the affairs of the disabled is passed on to no thumb on by the rights of the disabled? They have the right to reach public places, such as the rest of the common people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u77	Mr. President. I just agree with what. A senator when he speaks of the importance of this and how much, long, and intolerable, the struggle has been that people with disability can manage. As the report shows, we have laws on universal design, so in the case of man - made grants, the obligation is perfectly clear. We can then discuss how detailed these laws are, whether it would be more beneficial to unite in their goals, but people will have more time to figure out how they are best. However, there is another discussion. The management board has changed the score, and this is especially taken into consideration when considering and ensuring that all have access to the structure. On the other hand, the European Commission fund strengthens tourism with a wide range of projects and places in Iceland's nature. I'm sure there's some limitations, but I agree completely, and I want this to be held up. It has done a lot of self - preservation, and I wish that self - saving would not have to fight so hard for it, it should be self - worth. I have taken them seriously, but in the case of monuments the law is quite clear, as I say, and they must be followed. Granted, there may be some limits when we are in nature. It was, for example. Very interesting when we went to New Zealand about two years ago and saw the fundamental principle that if we're invited to the destination, there'll be some way for people with disability to enjoy it; although they can't do everything the place has to offer, there's always something for everyone. Sometimes the situation is simply so that not everything can be used together, and there is something we should, of course, be on the move.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u78	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I completely agree with her, this is what we're supposed to be going for. We realize that all things are not possible, but they are basically demanding the minimum. We haven't even made it. Subjects in wheelchairs do not have minimal access to many public institutions or rural areas. We can look straight across the street, to Aldulis's agent, who's in an old house, as I've pointed out. It's going to blow up. We realize by resorting to tourist attractions that we cannot have unauthorized access, but the minimal delay is expected by tourism sites. One of the things I don't like about surveillance agencies. A minister must agree with me in that regard. How can you build an amazing tourist location with a perfect lamp for wheelchairs and other perfect facilities that everyone thinks should be valid for a person in a wheelchair, but it becomes evident from expensive projects that the facilities cannot be used? The width to enter the pots may be wrong, the hill is wrong too. There is no point in using it to be used by those who are supposed to use it. That's why the surveillance needs to be sharpened, and there must be number one, two, and three that those who are supposed to monitor it and make sure that these individuals can make good use of their work, just indulge in it, and make sure it's okay. It's a human rights requirement. This is the right of the law and of the disabled. I think the Minister must agree deeply.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u79	Madam President. I just agree with what. A senator in this, of course, is a natural requirement for those with disability to experience and enjoy what Iceland has to offer. All I can do is try to put myself in their shoes how tiresome it must be to remind myself of the rights that are enjoyed by the rest of us without having to think about it. I'm totally on their side when it's time. I hope people don't have to call for people, wherever they are in the system, put on special glasses, so they don't forget. It's just going too slow. We have not gone beyond that struggle, so each of us has to fight for it. Sometimes it seems that those who are working on such projects simply forget to think about it. It's a project that we all have to work on, that it can't be forgotten. It is, of course, a self - righteous right as far as it goes, i.e. that we can share in making sure that, despite the fact that not everyone can do everything at all. I agree with what. A senator, and if there's anything more that we can change when it comes to performing a ladder or something like that, I'm open to it. There's already a law on monuments. I believe that we can all do considerably better when it comes to access to everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u80	A respectable president. It's a good bill. It looks fine. Emphasis on regional development is of interest. What I feel is missing in general is the link between the areas. A lot of tourists move slightly between areas, just slide round, even up to the top of the glacier, i.e. in the South, up and down in one day. There are many ways and opportunities to get there. I don't feel like I'm looking for a full vision of something like that. places around the circle so that we can get anywhere into the ring road and cover the most difficult places around us, with full support and facilities, with a national guard in the area, and a structure that has been to cope with such pressures. A minister says that building blocks were accomplished. I find it a little interesting because a few years ago we reduced the amount of money in the tourist market because applications were lacking, because there were not enough applications to build up in tourist places at the same time as insurrections in many places, especially in the South, were so much damaged by areas. There's a discrepancy I think this bill can definitely improve about opening it. We grab a little late in the ass and I'd like to see the overall context of the link between these areas and the entrance to the Southlands, Akureyri, Westlands, etc. where we can begin in places other than the southwest corner.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u81	Madam President. We've been in a lot of structure for the past few years, but what's positive as things have developed in this structure is clearer definition and interaction of tourism and national programmes. In the past, we also had a territory owned by the government under the tourist market, so we kind of moved the money from one of the government's pockets to the next. The EEA produced quite a bit, as development was urgent. Then we went to build our country plan. Then she had to get some money into her, and then we've increased it. Hv. A senator did not specifically mention the areas, but I suspect that there is the best area in which the national programme is to build up because the tourism fund is a competitive fund, which is for a locality. True, some of these positions are owned by a local partner, while others are owned by individuals. All can apply for which it falls and then assign an independent control in accordance with a score line. It is a interaction that I have felt we have taken in the right direction, but surely it may take even more money to make up a country plan or individual places. Then we're also going into a possible discussion about other controls, how to steer more into these places. It can vary from season to season because soil is fragile and so forth. When it comes to linking areas, we still have work to do, both for further distribution, that the structure is such as sails and services. However, the strategy has changed significantly, and now, it is also important that rural areas take into account them in their plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u82	A respectable president. It is just these days and the last few weeks that the situation has been the worst, so that the situation now saves much damage. However, there are a number of places that have been exposed to disturbance in recent years that are now taking a little break, a little bit of sleep. It is good and blessed, despite the reasons why they receive the air. Between that, there is a conflict between national programme and tourism fund, because several locations enter between them, perhaps an area in a private - owned person who wants the area to be new as the natural bulb that it is but cannot or does not want to maintain the pressures it becomes, perhaps wanting to do something about it in some way. Then somehow it'll hit a gap between here and there. The irony of it is that no one will take the damage that this country will experience unless it does. While everyone has hands somehow in a pocket, and shows one another that the other is responsible, the harm is done in the meantime. So I'm trying to point out the overall context, both the flow between the areas, and also the fact that we don't lose the natural bulbs, which may be a disagreement on whether or not to go to the tourist or national budget, but to get caught somewhere and to prevent further damages, as we're sorry to occur.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u83	Madam President. You're right about what you're doing. Senator. Other factors will also be tested, both possible changes in existing legislation and possible development of new legislation or implementation. When discussing controls, it is also possible to have some form of permission as much as has been discussed, in order to form in an individual - owned area, which could be offered out by the person without having to go to the company themselves. Someone else could take care of it for a price. The same is true of a territory owned by the State. We may feel that it is important for the public to still own the land, but in every case the public may not be the best public for such a business. Then there is the need to build a frame about who should be able to extend the invitation. To be sure, we do not want this to be just the person who can pay the highest price. Rather, we put in advance some demand for protection of nature and for all time. Will we open the door for individuals to make investments in territory owned by the State? Then we have a sensitive discussion of the distribution that we are familiar with from another field of employment called fishing. This assignment will not go away, and if we were not in the condition we are in right now and a life - saving job with everything we do would be possible in this discussion because the next part of the program was to discuss how we can take on further control. Now, things are different to us, we are, fortunately or sadly, not with the pressures of nature we once had. Hopefully, we'll be with so many tourists that the controls and decisions that need to be made will be tested. I hope we get to the point where we can start discussing such factors, even though they will certainly become sensitive discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u84	A respectable president. We're discussing a bill to correct the changing of the European Commission Act on Tourist Positions, Goals, and Roles. This is the best, and I really support it with a little more and more because this is the opportunity. The tourists are so gone now. In the news last night, there was an interview with the people who were taking a path by Geys, and it showed that they were all at peace to take the path, they didn't have to walled it off. As a result, it shows how important it is for us to do this now if we hesitate to get another so many tourists back when things are slowed down. At the same time, it allows us to make sure that we need and should make sure that the absolute design, such as at tourist attraction, is sufficient for everyone. There we are talking about people in wheelchairs, gangs, walkers, and people with rods. Sadly, that is not a rule but an exception, unfortunately, a complete exception in most matters. We must also realize that we have international agreements as well as the United Nations Convention on access to disabled people. This makes it clear that bioavailability should be available to all. As a result, we should see to it. We realize that we cannot say that we get 100% access for everyone, but we should at least Pull us out of the places in which we now live, where men are simply playing to avoid building buildings, tourist attractions, and other accessible items to the disabled. The requirement also exists that architects and others, whether designed as footpaths, workers, or others, make sure that it is designed at the beginning so that everyone can take advantage of it. Then there are patrolrs. Will we allow it to continue, as we have done in the past few years and decades, to ignore the fact that buildings, new buildings - the latest buildings - are taken out of the hands of a construction agent, and they do not meet the need for access? They are recorded and no comment is made. This does not make sense, so we must also make sure that there is something we can do about it, what we can do, and how we can change. We need to make sure that there is no way to behave so that the access is just an extra object, something behind the eyes or ears, that people think about if it doesn't cost them anything, it's not in the case. The lack of respect is complete, and that's why you have to make a requirement. It is not that laws and regulations say that humans can act like this but that there seems to be some sort of agreement that they can break the law and the rules. I also used an example of the highest. Minister of the past, which is even more tragic, that when you really want to do something well, it is done wrong. What, then, is to blame? It must be the one who draws the original, the architect. It's sad because it's doing things right, doing them professionally, trying to make possible access to a good one, and then it's sad if it's done that way, so it's not even possible to make good use of the design. There we have a number one, two and three, not to worry about the appearance, but to use it, first it and once we've made sure, we can put the aesthetics along and keep the design beautiful. I hope that we can find a way that would motivate those who are going to take advantage of these ways to get the strength to make available to everyone in the wild. They may be encouraged that if they show that they are doing this for all and ensure access to those in wheelchairs and other disabled persons in need, they will receive some reward. The state could, for example. Reward them by advertising or by setting up some pages where people are rewarded for putting this on and also when there is more to be done. They are then showing that they intend to comply with the laws and regulations and to make sure that everyone has access to the natural bulbs to which they guarantee access.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u85	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalise a change in annual accounts and a law on accountants and reviews, transparent of a larger system of important enterprises. The objective of the bill is to increase trust in Icelandic employment and to ensure a transparent approach to the information offered by an enterprise which in general can be considered to be of national importance and to the interests of the public. The bill suggests a change in section I of the Treaty on annual accounts, No. Article 3/2006, and chapter I of the Review and Review Act, No. 94/209, with a definition of a P.R. unit. Changes in VI are also made. the section of the Regulation on annual accounts, subject to the reports in the Member State. Then the bill suggests that the change in their X section is due year-to-year accounts to be made free of charge to the annual accounts of partners. The bill is a part of the government's actions aimed at strengthening confidence in Icelandic employment, including by making a higher demand for transparency in the management of larger systematically important enterprises. If the bill is legalized, certain fishing companies, industrial and energy companies, airlines, telecommunications, and administration organisations involved in international transport, according to further law decommunications, will also be considered to be units related to the public interest. So the bill seeks to emphasize the national importance of such associates and to increase their requirements. The bill also responds to recommendations made by the International Remuneration Fund, which has encouraged the Icelandic government to increase transparency in the management of larger companies. The bill suggests the adjustment of wording according to the requirements for a report on success, risk and uncertainty. Also, that all units related to the public interest interests should be published annually in a specific section of the management board in the Member States, as well as making full doubt as to which societies will provide financial information in a general report. In addition, the bill suggests that in terms of free and electronic publication, the tax can be published on the network of the annual accounts of all the partners due to annual accounts for official publication. With that change, there is even To improve the bioavailability of the public to the information that partners are obliged to list in annual accounts. It is reasonable that such information is readily available to the public. The cost of annual accounts is to increase the support of partners' business, to promote informed discussion, and thus to promote the trust of the public. V.E.G. President. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u86	A respectable president. What a joy it is to open a monthly bill for all companies. There is just the bill for the council on exactly this, and there were the first steps taken, i.e. in the bill adopted here in 2017, reminds me, about the opening of corporate files, and the next step was to open a annual bill. But what is missing is a shareholder file. A shareholder file must also be opened. Because it's in three different layers, not all of the information is presented. Although a company registry is published, it will somehow stop in its annual accounts and shareholders' legislation, even if all the information is available in an enterprise file itself. It was such an interesting point of view or comment that identified why each other is closed, although there is access to an enterprise file that is open and free. Although an enterprise registry contains information on the annual accounts and the shareholder file and because it is not set up in the annual accounts and shareholders file, it is closed even if it is available through a company file, if you go through it. It is very normal, as shown in this, that the basis is exactly an open access to the annual accounts, to the company registry and to the shareholder file as well and that there are special references to these larger globally important enterprises which have to carry out such increased transparency requirements. Very good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u87	Madam President. Yeah, I've been watching, and I remember Pirata's bill on the open annual bill and their emphasis on it, so I was especially thinking about Pirata when I spoke up for the case. But as for a shareholder file, that's exactly right, we're not as far away in it. Some countries have significantly more transparency when it comes to them. Although companies are, of course, obliged to have a shareholder file, they are not open and free of charge. Still, there is something that we've only considered, we've only taken it further, but I'm sure we're moving on in it and seeing where we're going to end up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u88	A respectable president. It would be more convenient for a bill to be ready for release at the council, which, in fact, opens the stockholder file. But there is another problem with the shareholder file that it becomes so irregular, in fact, only once a year, if that, if people bring it right in, so that within a year changes in parts and parts of enterprises are not necessarily seen in these updates. Although there could be significant changes within a year, transfers on items, it would actually never be seen in the shareholder file if these changes occur in some kind of operation within the year. There is something to consider, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u89	Madam President. It is true that for the companies who are under annual accounts, they are obliged to have the list of shareholders in their annual account. There's a senator here who's expected to include... to point out that such things happen once a year, and there may be significant changes in shareholders within a year. But as I say, it's something we're not making up right now and it's not exactly like this, but it's something we've been looking at, and it's probably more likely, but it's not that we're moving more transparent in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u90	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of action against money theft and terrorist funding and the law on the registration of real owners. The bill suggests that a bank account will be set up, where government agencies involved in a case involving money-covering will be able directly to obtain information on bank accounts and individual storage rooms and legal agencies. The limitations of the anonymous use of pre-filled cards are then laid down. It also suggests that there will be an expansion of the laws of money so that more people will fall under the law, including creditors, automobile parties, and car car car bills. This change in the definition of high-risk individuals due to political links has been proposed to include members of political classes rather than members of the Commission as expected by the current legislation. The bill also suggests a change in the law on the registration of real owners that the head of the Treaty monitors the public community with cross-border activities, and then the obligation to registered members is to ensure proper information about real owners. The bill's even. aimed at completing the implementation of the fifth EU budget for national legislation as required by its Member State on the EEA Treaty. At the same time, it is aimed at ensuring that Iceland meets its commitments to FAFF. One of the main elements of the bill is the list of bank accounts and individual storage rooms and legislation. It is an important part of the defense against terrorist spending and funding that investigators and surveillance partners can get information on any person's opinion of bank accounts while delaying such access can lead to failure to stop the transfers that are of a more penalent value. It is clear the will of the Icelandic government to take the fight against money thefts, the funding of terrorism, and the spread of the funding of mass destruction weapons, which are displayed in the past. in July 2019, the government policy published. Emphasis is laid on the fact that Icelandic legislation should at any given time provide adequate protection against the financial resources and funding of terrorism and meet the international requirements to protect against such offenses. At the preparation of the bill, the Department of Economics and Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Employment and Development, the State Department, the Bank of Iceland, the local district attorney's office, the office of financial analysis by police, the Tax, the state police authorities, the office of the sheriff of the capital area, and the Office of finance companies. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill. This helps to cope with rapid developments in the litigation category, the development of specific changes resulting from the experience of the application of laws on money laundering that were set up here in the spring 2018 General Assembly, as well as the completion of the implementation of the fifth EU money collection directive. So I suggest that the bill will be following this discussion. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u91	A respectable president. There's quite a lot of information in that office that finds its way into the financial analysis of the police, the employees of that office. When you examine the bill, you will see that these are reliable information that is important, but they can also be abused. To be perfectly clear, there is something about the thresholds of how much information is really in the hands of public members. What interests me most is the monitoring role, the monitoring of their management information, and perhaps the lack of independent surveillance of police activities, which we've often talked about here before. It would be most appropriate that this bill be followed so that personal protection and etc. are kept in place. but also how to handle the information and data that the workers of this office have. There are, of course, differences in the sensitivity of that information. People have conflicting views about it. I don't have too much opinion about it, but I understand it well when some people worry about access to information and especially when a member of the police team has access to information. So I wanted to consult a minister for independent police surveillance on this matter and the abuse potentials associated with this information, which are all bank accounts and storage rooms and what may now be, which the police are allowed to access by this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u92	A respectable president. I'm just gonna take my mind off with what's wrong. Senator, these are the questions I asked when this case first came into my table. This, of course, is one of the events I set up for the New Year's Eve regarding police changes, strengthening the surveillance, seeing what you can do better, how citizens can have direct access to that surveillance, specific answers, etc., both internal Affairs. This work is in full practice at the Ministry and has come up with some suggestions for working with them, and I will continue working with them and expect to bring something to the next council on that subject. That is true of various factors. A senator mentioned, very sensitive information, very personal information, that we are also observing how other countries are going to do this. In the EU, the obligation for a bank account will take place on September 10 and we will see how people have the file, who is responsible for it, who has full access to it, and then who has the monitoring to which they do not have the same access to the registry, because the monitoring must, of course, not be within the same hand. It is all for consideration and must be examined carefully, but it may not have been fully developed. But we're initiating this, so that we're ready and then we're going to find the best way, and I'm going to work with the Regulation on how the surveillance will be best handled. I strongly emphasize that it will be decent, and I agree with it at the same time. A senator may be very sensitive.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u93	A respectable president. The next step and other problems in this regard, if we take this in a larger context than Iceland, are the data to be done with other countries that are needed to achieve connections affecting the defenses of terrorism and money laundering, but the link reaches only a limit within the European Economic Area. What about accounts in areas that are defined as taxpaying for this or in the United States? I had an account in a bank in the United States when I was studying there. I don't know if it'd be part of the information that would come out there. I don't even know if that account is open any more. I think I tried to shut him down, but you had to be there to close him, and then I was in Iceland, and I wasn't planning on making a trip to the United States to shut him down, but I just transferred all the accounts and I don't know what status it is now. There are some things that could cause confusion, if there are any information missing from certain parts of the world, or if there are such ghost bills. In the overall context, how can you add protection against using tax documents and using citizens in bank accounts in many places where they can set up accounts as they please?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u94	Mr. President. It was a series of reflections on the worldwide work that needs to be done in this series of issues. This, of course, is part of our efforts as participants in the FAFF organization and we have tried to cope significantly with the last semester. It provides a strong basis for international cooperation, for information, for countries to be put together on this project, and for access to information from other countries, status and other countries. This is a major part of this, and it is very often about national action, across the border. Of course, whether there are countries in the international community or not is different, but this often results in good cooperation with countries that may have more information or access to those countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u95	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill for a change in child law, but the bill suggests that parents who share custody of a child without living together can negotiate the transition of a child under certain circumstances, but the possibility is not available in the current law. The bill also expects changes in various other laws to ensure the right effects of a divided child. There are changes to make possible the children's protection laws, law on law and residence, individual registration laws, and income tax laws. A first consideration of the subject of the bill is a new legal arrangement to negotiate the change of the child's dwelling place. Today, a baby has a measure of rightfulness and is the legal standing of the parent's law under current laws other than the legal status of the parent's company. The difference is, mainly, that the parent's legal home has a rich right to make decisions on the child's issues and also has the right to collect and receive cohesion and public support of various kinds that a parent who does not have. In the bill, the child's parents in divided households are expected to share the custody of a child, but their legal standing will be different from those who do not share their home but also have a common custody. The influence of divided farms is primarily that all parents'decisions in divided households will be met. Then a child is enrolled in a registry with both parents, i.e. There is one place where the entry becomes a legal home, and somewhere else there is a home to live. At the same time, both parents will be able to have the right to support their child's children in the form of child reforms and growth reforms. The goal of the changes proposed is to promote peace and balance the status of the parents who share the custody of a child and decide together to bring it up in two homes, and a willingness to move in. Both households are not expected to have the exact size of a baby, but a child is expected to live equally with his parents. Otherwise, it is in the parents'hands to arrange an arrangement that best fits the child's needs. This is not to say that a child should have reached a certain age to be considered as a switcher. The bill expects certain conditions to be met in order to be considered for exchange. The arrangement assumes that parents can always work together on every subject that concerns their child. Thus, a contract to replace a child makes rich demands to parents for cooperation, respect, consideration, and flexibility. Then there is a requirement for nearby homes to ensure convergence in the daily life of a child. It is thought that the interests of the child will always be guided, and each individual case will be assessed individually for the best disposition of a child. When changing a child's residence, it is impossible to request confirmation of a contract or demand the approval of a businessman for support or to enjoy the exchange of payment by an insurance agency. It will not be possible to request confirmation of a contract or to determine close associations or special expenses, or to ask for a businessman's decision on a foreign mission. The bill assumes that the switch-in-the-house contract will be subject to the confirmation of a businessman, but a businessman must counsel parents on conditions that I have met here to divide the livestock and what the right effect it will bring. Then, according to the bill, if conditions are not met, the businessman should refuse confirmation of a changed home. A client can also cancel a transitional contract to one or both parents' wishes. When a contract is terminated, a child's legal home remains unchanged, unless otherwise agreed, a contract about the changed child will be canceled if one of the parents appeals to the matter of custody or to the home of the child. Second, the subject of the bill involves general adjustments in the provision of child development and support that will increase parental freedom of agreement. The bill suggests that parents'contract concerning divorce, separation, or the decision for custody and child's legal home be taken into custody. Rather, it is emphasized that parents who do not live together share responsibility for its advancement. The bill assumes that a parent with a child may not be able to participate in the child's forwards, either by payment of the cost of alimony or by subsidies. To be involved in the cost of living costs, according to the bill, parents agree that the parent that a child does not live by takes over directly and directly to pay certain expenses that regularly fall. These include daycare or leisure activities. A legal parent will likely accept the payment of other daily expenses, and parents can also choose that the parent with a child does not pay a certain amount of money to the other parent, who is then defined as a recommendation. In such cases, the legal guardian should use the pressure to cover the cost of the child as well as to participate in the maintenance process. The bill assumes that there is a difference between the two ways you select when collecting the options. In this way, parents can only request confirmation from the businessman if there is a contract on payment and such agreements are strictly planned. There is no way to consult an insurance agency for payment unless it has been negotiated for financial support. On the other hand, if parents negotiate for a change in a child's farm, it is assumed that parents agree on whether they will pay individual expenses or how they share expenses for the development of the child, assuming that parents can be able to balance all issues with the child's upbringing in this process. Third, the bill implies that child - law clearly states the basis for which parents'contracts of a particular arrangement of custody, residence, and companionship must be established. In current laws, parents are expected to negotiate in a variety of ways, and it is important that parents discern when the right to negotiate the change of children is appropriate. (a) Why is it important to compromise other agreements in the law? Legal grounds provide important clues as to how to evaluate the welfare of a child at any given time. A comparison of agreements also helps parents to recognize the legal situation and to choose the best way for a child. Thus, in addition to the exchange site, it is expected that the general basis for agreements on common custody and equal relations will be laid, but the basis for such agreements is now only found in law data. This includes a new arrangement for conversation in the child's right to express itself and a clearer set of rules for the child's rights. Thus, the bill suggests that a child can take the initiative that the head of the county offers a total of parents to discuss the arrangements for custody, law, residence, or company. As a result of these changes, a child has the opportunity to express himself to a parent, and parents can agree or make needed changes in their ability to make a decision. This new law of child law aims to strengthen the child's right to apply himself to situations likely to have a basic impact on his well - being. The objective of a conversation is to guide a child and his parents and seek to promote an arrangement that is best for a child, taking into account his or her child's viewpoint. A certain minimum age of a child is not required, but it is assumed that the child makes his own decision and takes the initiative to make the right choice. Then a businessman needs to assess the needs of a child in different stages of age and development. The bill also suggests adjusting the wording of 33. g. a 43. g. child - law to strengthen the child's right to communicate with reconciliation and to resolve differences. On April 1, 2021, it is suggested that the bill will take effect, but the bill says it is assumed that the implementation of any more laws and regulations under the Ministry of Social Affairs, Health, Education, and Culture Ministry will be fully subject to the proper effects of the divided child. V.E.G. President. I've explained the basic subject of the bill. I believe there are many progressive steps in the bill, both for children and for parents. I stress that such willingness to live with both parents is not deemed to be possible; it is the solution to the parent's equal position, and then it strengthens the parent's position, choosing to bring up the child in the same two households, in agreement with all aspects of the child's upbringing. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u96	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in child law, with subsequent changes, about the change of a child's estate. It's just a great bill that most things or everything. The best part is about the child's rights, and this is a big step forward. However, there are some things that I am concerned about and that I immediately arrive at 1 Corinthians 15: 58. ... withauthority of the President's permission: If parents have agreed on a law home and a regular child's residence with one of them, the parent who has a legal home has the authority to make a firm decision on the child's everyday life. It is the choice of high school, elementary school, regular hobbies, and so forth. Today, regular activities of leisure can be very varied and very costly. Would it not be easier for parents to agree immediately on what is normal in this context? Now we are fully aware that the parents'financial situation may be quite different, so it is very important that they are not immediately running on the wall and begin immediately because there may be disagreements in this situation because one person may have to refuse, that parent cannot live up to the commitments they are about to make. I also ask because we know that, as we do today, there are many single parents who do not have custody of their children and who are in a position to have to pay support and to be heavily committed and are in a terrible situation, not really able to give anything to their children. Therefore, as soon as I ask the minister if she has any solution for these individuals who are already in a position to be so financially hungry that they cannot handle their children's forwards and can't provide them one or more things, we have the terrible position of not being able to give their children properly financially. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. To this end, a senator agrees that there are some good changes here. Of course, questions arise and so do we. A candidate here refers to the situation in which the class is not divided, only a common custody, then the head of law has more authority to decide, as is clearly shown in a table at the end of the bill in order to identify differences in legal status. I'm not suggesting any change in that position when parents don't want to change their quarters, as I'm suggesting to be possible. There may be other discussions that need to be discussed. But I am still making adjustments to increase the freedom of parents if they want to conduct matters in a different way, even though they do not share their home. It is possible that they do not have to negotiate if they do not want to, and it is only acceptable that the financial situation of another person is better and worse; there is a conclusion that can be drawn. I hope, of course, that this way will benefit many because it is clear that while there are differences between parents, many parents are fully satisfied and have better rights, the legal guardian does not have this richer rights but is all the rights and cooperations of the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u98	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers of these answers, but I still worry about what is immediately presented at 1 Corinthians 15: 33. See, there should be consultations right away. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Ministers of single - parent families, we know that there are men in more parts and that there are individuals out there who are so heavily in debt that they do not have a restoration hope, neither financially nor can they help their children in one way or another. Of course, we need to deal with that problem, and we cannot sweep it under the blanket with these laws. Therefore, I ask a minister: Is there anything in the dough to deal with that problem? This sucks for those individuals who are in such a position and also pathetic for their children.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u99	A respectable president. I just agree with what. A senator needs to be examined. It was originally proposed to bring more extensive changes to the cohesion system. However, the work was working slower, and I thought there was no reason to wait for these good changes here and to wait for the change that really needs to be done, to examine the cohesion system in a larger context, and how it has been shown, what changes must be done for this, both because of legal parents, and the various proper effects on the rights of people. That work must be done. However, although such changes were being made in this bill, there are larger changes to the cohesion system than are proposed here, including for the added freedom of the contract, I decide to make these changes because they were ready and needed, and much is called for, and have been in the process for a long time and then to work on the rest.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u100	A respectable president. There are a lot of interesting and good changes here. There are, however, a few things that need to be sharpened. I found that a very good change was made to 8. that after an incident, the child is allowed to communicate with the treatment of reconciliation, in line with her age and development, in accordance with the children's covenant. But that's not enough. It is not enough to allow a child to communicate but also to listen. This is relevant, e.g. a certain agency for children and in my queries for reconciliation and waiting hours there I've asked if children are really a sort of interrogator, whether they're trying to get information from them, or if they're just looking for their point of view. Children do not have a guardian to monitor whether they are trying to obtain evidence or to provide firm confirmation of events by asking the child's leading questions. This was clearly shown in the reply of a minister that it is not, but it definitely is needed. It is interesting to put this into play with many aspects of the treatment in parental reconciliation and the care of a child there. In most respects, these are very positive and relatively cautious, yet very useful. Finally, it seems to be a little bit towards the children's covenant, especially with the third optional accounting in the Treaty, where the birth of a child is much more loyal and the child is given more comprehensive and clearer sources. [[The president calls.]] So why don't we take the step to the full and allow children to go all the way to the United Nations Child Rights Committee, where Iceland represents, to look for solutions there?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u101	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. I agree and reiterate that I have felt that the waiting period in the county's family field was unsurpassed. I have worked very hard to put both special money on short listing, asking for a new organization in an effort to strengthen them in the county office, and to take a job from the county people in the capital area, and to move them, and to prepare more to ease the pressure on the county man in the capital area so that the service can be better, and especially on a family field. I just wanted to mention this because this is a big thing about serving children, that it takes too long. I can hear it. A senator says about a special agent. Of course, the peacemaker should remain neutral and be careful of the child's interests, and it is very important, and specifically stated in this bill that while this is being made up of changes in parental equality that decide to bring up the child in all respects, parent equality will no longer go to the child's interests. The interests of a child are key. Here it is. It's like a whisk. One senator, increasing the rights of children, increases their ability to communicate, and I think that this will be an important experience. We need to start somewhere. We need to see how we should better introduce this to children so that they know of this right. I think it's an important step to start, and then we can see if it's going any further, but then it's the committee that's taking it into consideration, I guess, in line with what's happened. A senator mentions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u102	A respectable president. We are with the United Nations Children's Covenant that we have attended, and these selective books provide a more detailed explanation of how to carry out the children's covenant. I find it quite hypocritical to say to your kids, you don't exactly know your rights, but we're going to introduce them just before you really get all the rights we've agreed to. Of course, we should start by taking all the steps that we have access to and that we have signed. Of course, we should confirm a third optional book in order to start teaching on all the rights that children should have in accordance with the children's covenant.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u103	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. I think we're taking a big step with this new law, which is not in the current law, about the conversation of a child's initiative. Of course, I agree that we should take the steps we have made to take, and I believe that we are doing it to a great extent with these new laws as well as with increased rights to get their views across and when there is a conflict. I look forward to seeing how it turns out, and I hope it turns out well. I do not disagree with the senator about making regulations and introducing to children what their rights are. But how important it is that we still follow this step and see how we communicate to children sufficiently so that they know the right to be legally established by these new arrangements!
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u104	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking you very much for this bill. It is very important and is completely in line with the bill discussed during the last session of which the residence is divided. There's a lot of new stuff there that's really improved too, e.g. The agreement between parents for one nursery and one school. I think it's a key, because despite the good feelings of our parents, we don't want to let the baby get in between parts of the country every other week and go completely into life. I don't think that's necessarily for the sake of children. Here is the principle that there is solidarity, and that's very good, and more of the parents can be in good cooperation. Then it's also good that you can't judge a place to live, and I speak here from my professional experience on temporary leave in law. In some cases it is unusual to judge in common view when there is a very profound difference, at times it has caused a bicker. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister to the point why a disagreement cannot be sought for justice. Despite much love between parents and much cooperation, a situation may suddenly arise that one parent refuses to go to a vacation. It is a shame that help is not possible, for it may not be necessary to break up the entire arrangement regarding living, despite the need to have someone cut off. I don't think it's necessary to take them on one-sided notice of the agreement and actually break to the ground if there's a slight disagreement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u105	A respectable president. Thank you. To this end, a senator agrees with what was said here on the basis of the importance of this novelty and how it is being conducted. I think we're here to a conclusion that we're all looking for where the child's interests are at stake, where they are more important, but we guarantee that our parents'position will be equal anyway. Whatever it is. A senator comes in and asks when something comes up in parental cooperation, so to speak, and if that is the basis for the exchange, you must be completely smiling. It does not really have to be, and it is possible to consult a businessman before considering that a contract is broken, receiving counseling or reconciliation, and some conversation about potential disagreements. Then, of course, you can expect that if you have such a problem, you will no longer want it to be that way. There we need to expect that there is a rich will to find solutions and conclusions even if there is some disagreement between parents. We put forth this option as an entirely optional option, and it involves my system, and parents have the right to be quite equal in the ability to raise their children, and then we have to trust that they will find out their differences. Otherwise, the contract can be unsatisfied because of a smile. But I think it's true that they can seek some kind of advice because of minor differences so that the contract doesn't fail.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u106	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answer. Those who are on the committee to discuss this further and ask about it. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister who supports the parents of disabled children who have two homes, and they need help. Will the Kingdom support not only homes but also tools that are necessary for children? This is of great importance because there has been a lot of injustice in the system as it is now, even in close association, a common reserve, but there is only one home that receives all the support. Then we are talking about aid tools, financial support, reforms, and things like that, and whether there will be sufficient support to both homes, especially when it comes to tools, at least there's no room for division. And finally: Can parents decide that all benefits, child benefits, and any compensations will go only to another parent in such a situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u107	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator here mentioned the situation of parents who have a disabled child because it is right to fall in high cost and needs a lot of equipment that only one parent receives from current legislation. This, of course, is especially true when a law - at - home parent is in such a much better position despite one of his parents'wishes. This is exactly one of the changes the Ministry of Social Affairs needs to make, and that is why the bill will not take effect until the following year or on April 1, 2021. It's so that you can deal with these situations. It will not then be handled in these laws. It will need to be changed by laws under other ministers and regulations, so proper, and by the will of this bill, which is absolutely required to do so. I have high hopes that the rights of two disabled children will be as rich and as divided when it comes to buying instruments and other items because I know these cases are so vivid and have had a few stories about them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u108	A respectable president. I'm going like a what? paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir wishes to the highest. Minister of Justice to congratulate you on measuring for this bill. I agree with the importance of the bill. I have been giving a few talks since my arrival at a meeting on the status of families where a child lives in two households, and this is an important step. But this is not the solution to all matters, as it has been well considered, and I hope so deeply that the council will be able to take care of it quickly and well because it is of great importance. As the bill shows, this is, of course, a long road that's been going through Congress resolutions and groups and cooperation between different schemes. That's why I'm going to allow myself in my talk, too, to consider a case I've mentioned in the past and to write about, which may not be directly involved in this bill, but is related to the quality of life of the children and families of the country. Looks like it's so hard for us to put our arms around it. Here are the reasons given to disabled children or homes where a child has some sort of disability. Well, then you're with the Ministry of Health. The report explains what needs to be discussed with many departments and changes of laws in order to ensure full rights of children and families. There's a lot of institutions outside the Ministry of Presidency, and there's a lot of institutions under these departments. That makes it a little complicated for us. I often feel that when these discussions arise, i.e. A common custody which I think was a very reasonable change at the time, that it was a bit about parental rights, and that both parents have right. Surely, my primary concern is the rights of my children, as well as the responsibilities of my parents. You see, as a parent, the excellent rights of parents to have a lot of responsibilities, and it seems that we have not achieved enough by enabling parents to fulfill their responsibilities when parents understand and live in separate households. It's not just that there's no need to improve the law, although I think this bill is certainly an improvement, but it's often a technical problem in our systems. In particular, I'm going to mention a national file in this context, which decades ago created a system and decided that it would be a good idea to put a number on families in the country. For some reason most other institutions have taken information from a national file decided to use this fine family number as an alpha and Omega in driving their systems forward. This has caused information about children to enter only a child's legal home, which is only with one parent, despite the common custody of parents. However, it is not certain that even a law - abiding parent will receive the letter about his child. Perhaps it is a spouse of the parent's legal home, perhaps older, and therefore the teacher's mate shows off the older person. This is totally ridiculous. I have one question here at the highest level. Healthcare Minister on information that health insurance has sent out that should be related to the personal protection of children who go home to another parent in a legal home, but not to the parent's blood, and neither parent can be informed of this. I'm sorry, I'm just going outside of the bill, but I don't want to make the most of it. Ministers continue to do this work because this matter is important. Someone has to hold these matters in all our systems because they're all over, in every sense, and in so many institutions. I know that with the changes made on the national computer system, it was supposed to be fixed and hopefully it's over. However, it is not enough that the system needs to change. It is also necessary for all who accept information to change their systems and shape. Of course, it is completely out of the picture that any parents with child custody are not allowed information directly to them, and of course we should be able to solve much of this electronically today. I wanted to give this particular emphasis, and I wanted to give it more urgent attention in these important matters as well as to the Congress to finish this matter, which is of great importance and is of great importance. There's a very important puzzle in this puzzle. However, we should not forget to keep ever alert to the rights of children and especially to the duties of parents and how we can help parents fulfill their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u109	A respectable president. I'm going to continue with what I couldn't complete earlier on the Child Court Board and the third optional book on the Convention of Human Rights. I think it's ironic that we're representing the Child Court, but we don't allow the Icelandic citizens to come to her for an opinion. But it was a real challenge to get a representative there, because it's a pretty smart thing to work with, and very necessary, I understand that's why. But then I don't understand why the citizens of the country are not allowed to go to the Committee, since in the end, children have every rights defined in the European Convention itself. The children's covenant is a further addition to the Convention of Human Rights, for there are specific factors that need to be considered because children's problems are based on systems relating to their rights under the European Convention itself. Especially should they be given rights like everyone else's. I find it a little interesting that there's a case stuck in a committee once again, because even the Ministry of Child Affairs supported it when I asked him about it in unprepared queries a while ago. Now we see this bill, which takes a step toward fulfilling the children's covenant, but it is still missing these obvious points that you do not understand as to what we have, on the other hand, to go in that direction. We got a representative on the committee, that was the way of origin, got seats and respect, and so on in a very important place about human rights in the world, but on the other hand, we say: No, forgive, children in Iceland must not go and look to the Children's Court, even though we have already done well and grudgingly indicated that we support the work of this committee by sending representatives to her. It explained why. Bryndís Haraldsdóttir that we have a very diverse arrangement for custody and companionship. It is a shared custody, balance, exchange, and possible partnerships in which children are now being added in a very clear and positive way. Then I wondered, " Am I going to be able to share my home with another parent, a common custody, a change in residence, and equal relations, to be flexible enough for everyone? ' If, in most cases, people can meet the criteria for the burs to move except in one, two cases where they would want to manage it differently, will that damage the whole contract process as such? Is it to be expected in the form that needs to be filled out by a businessman that the qualities of a divided home may be accepted but also that have characteristics of equal relations, any other characteristics of these living and sexual traits? I look forward to being discussed by the committee and looking forward to seeing the reviews that it has to do with it. I'm sorry, but I'm not on the Committee that gets this case, but I look forward to seeing the release of the committee on the case. It looks very positive, and I look forward to seeing reviews about it and the contexts of it, for example. The third optional books of the children's covenant.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u110	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of state, government and conduct of the National Church and other laws and to disqualification of church funds. The subject of the bill can be attributed to an additional meeting that was signed by representatives of the Icelandic State and the National Church on September 6, 2000. the application and review of a so - called church meeting, but there is no new agreement. The contract aims to simplify the government's payments to the National Church and also to increase the independence of the National Church on both financial and staff matters. The contract goes on and on. estimated that the Church will have full responsibility for its own finances and will decide for itself the number of its employees. To ensure that certain aspects of the contract are legalized, the Minister of Justice is committed under the contract and a declaration of will that accompanied him to offer a bill at the Council, which includes some legal adjustments involving church affairs. As part of it, laws were passed in the autumn Summit, which focused primarily on the pay and the staff of the National Church, as stated by the law of No. 153/219, but it was important that these laws go into effect at the end of the New Year's Day compared to the contract. In order to enforce the additional contracts, there is going to be a change in the law that this bill is about, but most of them are about to turn to church funds. It is a treasure of Christianity, the treasure of parishes, church affairs, and the local treasure. Then the Declaration states that the cemetery should be determined to stop paying for funeral services. The changes suggested in the bill are essential to an additional September meeting. It should be noted, then, that in the Declaration of Will, representatives of the National Church and State are expected to be working on the review of a current law on the National Church, with the aim of simplifying the order further and the work being done. The changes proposed in the bill are disposing of laws dealing with the treasure of Christianity, the treasure of parishes, church funds, and regional funds. Instead of the donations that have flowed according to the previous agreement and laws that apply to the fund, the State will pay a yearly contribution to the National Church according to the agreement. The types of payments that the church receives under the agreement will be followed below by the same general pay and price proposals which provide the basis for the budget of each year, but according to the agreement, the Church is to accept the property and commitments of the funds as well as the legal tasks that are entrusted to them, as well as the synods to provide further guidelines on the work of the funds. Is this in harmony with the policy of improving the independence of the National Church on finance and staff? The agreement then suggests a change in the law of cemeteries, burial, and cremation, which includes the evaporation of a church government as a result of funeral service. It involves the priestly services of funerals, scourging, and doing the funeral of a duster or a chest, and it is estimated that a Synod will place a legal fee for the church, including priestly services. A respectable president. I have explained the issues involved in this bill, where an additional contract between state and State Church is expected to increase the independence of the Congregational Church in finance and in staff matters, and the simple laws and arrangements for the payment of government funds made by the National Church. Is it necessary to make the proposed laws in the bill to achieve the objectives of the agreement? The 2020 budget covers an additional meeting and is not made up of special funds for church finance and the Fund for the Church, but is now part of the total budget according to the agreement. So the bill is designed to conform the legality to budgets and then revise financial programs. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u111	A respectable president. There's mostly two things I've got to check on. If the aim is to simplify the principle, it is the easiest to cut the cord. The financing of this is supposed to be part of a income tax, which could actually be lowered, and the church could collect its own fees and control all their money. At the present time, tax charges are being collected. As a result, it's public funds, public funds. If that is the standard, it will take into account the Constitution on budgets and all financial control that need to be as good as anyone else does. If this is to simplify financial and financial responsibilities to the church, then the Senate will similarly lose control of the legal resources it approves of. It's a violation of a constitution. We must be able to ask the church in exactly the same way as we can ask institutions how it is handled the financial resources approved by the State. It's the same money they're asking about. So I don't agree with what the bill says about this defending the Constitution, and in reality it's just being strengthened by the National Church, according to the constitution article. So it was about the constitution that is a problem. Then there is the simplicity of the principle. It's simply to be cut apart. And how does it fit in with this simpleness, in the end, because the church meeting is always being mixed into it, that these payments somehow make up an agreement? However, our remaining debt is never ambiguous because of the church meeting, for there definitely is a final amount or price on the earth.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u112	A respectable president. This is where it goes. Of course, a senator over a wide range of fields of talk about the National Church and the various topics that could be discussed about the national church, the cooperation of state and church, and the like. There are two things I'm going to say. It is simple to move the pay cost, from the time the State pays a certain number of priests to the church's own responsibility and advice on how it will be handled. It is also simple to accept church funds, which may include. were set up to improve the church's share of income lost by the State when the church took possession of church property and profited from the 1907, and put them down and how we are going to keep our arms around it specifically and move to the church, which is done in the September agreement that has become part of this total meeting and is now not to be particularly paid by government funds. So here's a suggestion for them to fall down. I'm standing by for simplicity. This increases church independence but in no way changes the surveillance or relationship that the State can have with the church. I don't know what it was like about this fund for like that. I don't think it was working that much, but I don't think it was working. This is for simplicity. This increases church independence and improves, and there are other legal adjustments, as I came in, to consider. I think this is an important step that increases church independence, and it is more like an independent religion. Then there is a larger discussion of how and what steps we take to increase it further.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u113	A respectable president. It is rather an obvious, easy step that can be taken to make the church comparable to other religions in spite of the Constitution of protecting and supporting the Evangelical Lutheran Church. That would be, for example. can be a minimum of anything like running a diocese, and there has been a meeting of constitutions to promote and strengthen that religion. V.E.G. One minister says that the church meeting is to compensate for the loss of the church since the 1907 Law, but the purpose of the 1907 law was, in effect, to strengthen the wages of priests and the church, who simply could not afford to run what they were to fire. The pay was low, and the bill was made directly to raise the clergy's salary in the end. Clearly, the application of the earth, which would then be paid, was not enough. If she didn't do it before, she wouldn't do it later. The State had to run for the baloney and pay the difference. We're still in that trouble. The obvious step would be to take a similar course with the Bavors a few years ago. They were once on budget, but now collect their own dues. The church can do the same, just as other religions do, although it is through the charge that is then distributed evenly. In fact, they can be cut too. There's plenty to do to simplify it. If the simplicity is to be that the state does not pay the pay, but that the church does so, it is, in fact, much simpler that the state continues to pay the wages of a large number of government employees anyway. Adding another remuneration arrangement is simply moving a certain portion into a different system that needs to be maintained and that is an increase in costs, not necessarily simple, but cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u114	A respectable president. The fees are an unregistered social fee or a switch to this bill. I just disagree. A senator may be able to agree on his goal or something. I don't agree that it's right to cut the cord here in connection with State and Church and separate it into one dust. The church has played an important role in our community through a variety of services, and we do this only in harmony, as was done with this agreement with the National Church, to take steps toward their increased independence. I think it's always the right way, because the church puts a big part in the heart of a lot of Icelanders. But that does not mean that it must be part of the government for eternity. But I think it's an important step, and here's a little bill that breaks out of the value of funds and changes payments for the cemetery to meet the agreement made in a wide, large settlement in September.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u115	Mr. President. This bill, as it happened at the highest. Minister, is helping to achieve goals involving the so - called additional agreement with the church meeting that the State did at the National Church last September. As the report shows, a declaration of will followed with this agreement, indicating that the same people would aim for the adjustment that is necessary in relation to the contract and would be presented in this bill. The bottom line of this article explains that the aim is to simplify the development of the financial support of the State to the national church and to increase the independence of the National Church on finance and staff. This is important to me, and I'm celebrating this bill. I've said this before, Mr. President, that I consider the National Church important to an Icelandic society in the past, present and future, and it is an important testimony that we as a nation stand on the historic and cultural foundation of Christian faith and values. We are to safeguard the heritage, as well as the influence of the church in Icelandic society, an inheritance based on the fact that the same is now the case with an Icelandic community and a Christian custom. That's why, as I said earlier, I welcome this bill, which is here to discuss, and the goal is to ensure the church's greater financial independence. This is a turning point. Last year's meeting is a pivotal meeting in relations of state and church, and it can be said that this arrangement is opening up to this agreement, which involves taking a major step toward church independence. So it is that priests are no longer government employees, and the church is gaining far more independence in its financial affairs than has ever been, which I hope will bring them a blessing and a new sense of reason. This fall contract is based on a completely new thought that creates the National Church an important space to revise and adapt their practices in the 21st century. From the standpoint of the church, this must foretell a good change. Before continuing, you may need to know that you may not be given this medicine. fit, Mr. President, to point out that, of course, the church order remains uncut and is based on 62 streg. The constitution. I believe that the National Council includes a declaration of the baseline society of our society, i.e. that this understanding implies that with 62 C.E. The Constitution can claim that we are a Christian nation, that we have a cross on our national flag, and that we can sing our god, O. True, there are Christian nations as we Iceland's people who do not have a similar national code, but the law is an important declaration in my opinion, a national declaration that has been in close proximity to nature and that has been Christian for more than 1,000 years. However, church and nation are not alone on the Constitution; they are alive and built. in our habits and habits. See and participate, most of the council members in a church service in the cathedral before the assembly. It should be noted that freedom of worship and tolerance have been as deeply rooted as in the nations where the system of religion has been the same as in the people. It's a good example in Iceland. The evidence suggests that these virtues enjoyed growing up in the shelter of a broad and tolerant pagan church. The National Church and State Council is at hand in various parts of Europe and the Icelandic Constitution on the subject is attributed to the Danish Constitution, which is a physical agreement and is still in the Danish Constitution of 1953. This arrangement of Iceland's Supreme Court has believed to be in accordance with the Constitution of religious freedom and equalitarian principles and international human rights contracts established by Iceland as long as it does not impair the right to favor other religions, establish religions, or non-ethnic and religious organizations, and it is not divided by individuals for that reason. Some years ago, the status of the Norwegian Church was simplified, replaced by a state - of - state arrangement, and the position of other religions greatly improved. Nevertheless, there was a desire for a National Church of Norwegian, which was more than anything done on cultural and historical grounds. In this discussion, it is better to do so. A constitution that the Evangelical Lutheran Church is a national church in Iceland means that the State Church is given a role that is part of the constitutiond social order. At 62rd. The Constitution says that the Evangelical Lutheran Church is a national church in Iceland and that the State is in its place to support and protect it. This can be changed by a law that is an exception to what is generally true of the Constitution. However, this is according to 2 mg. Ninety-niner. that the change in the State's church order depends on the national approval of national law. So I believe in it, and I'd like to mention here that the National Church Council cannot be canceled without making that decision in accordance with 2 mg. Ninety-niner. The Constitution, as stated earlier, includes a changed church order. As we know, Mr. President, Icelanders took part in the Councilment of National Order for proposals for a new constitution in 2012. Even there was a number of them. asked about the state of the National Church and wanted a greater proportion of the people to have regulations about national church in Iceland in a constitution. That conclusion is satisfying to me, and it is an important guide. The bill we are discussing here is going to review current national church law, No. 78/1997, to achieve the agreement's objective. National law is and has been too binding and has made it difficult for the church to make the best use of the freedom of the new international convention. This need to be kept in mind so - called church understanding, which has to do with this. Dr. Hjalti Hugason, professor of church history at the University of Iceland, discussed. His discussion shows that the term church understanding refers to the answer to the question: What does the church want to be in the near future? Does she want to be a independent religion on the Evangelical Dutch foundation? I agree with Dr. Hjalti Hugason when he says that hopefully the church will not condone the freedom of the new church agreement. This is an important point that I know and bring it up here. Theology professor and church historian are then wondering if the church can remain a national church. It's informative to read it, by permission of a president: ▪ Whatever the connection the National Church has to do with the State, it is most important that they maintain a living, active relationship with the nation. If the church has the confidence of the people in the country; if it continues to turn to it based on its own variety of factors in the sunshine and showers of daily life; if it means that it mediates messages that are relevant in the changing circumstances of each day and the future challenges, the Evangelical Church will continue to be a national church regardless of its legal and administrative status. This must be the church's competition. So a new religious law needs to be simple and flexible and to ensure the church more than anything else about how it builds up its system of ruling and develops its practices under changing circumstances. In this regard, heavy - metal laws must not tie her hands and stand in the way of evolutionary work, including, evolution. the definition of jobs and positions within the church. In the future, it must be important that the church assigns to diverse groups of people with varying education, experience, and training to meet the many challenges they must face. The church must develop from an institution to a congregation like Lúther in his day. Despite much pressure from the nations to get the most financial and legal freedom to develop flexible practices from their own image or church understanding, however, it is so that the new church meeting is being made up of the additional convention - the additional contract - a call for superintendentation in one stipulation form of financial management. In the future, the Synod, the highest government of the National Church, must exercise the authority of the church as it already does. To do so, you need to build a reliable manager who will be the head of the council. One of her first tasks must be to develop a team model to lay the basis for the exchange of funds that must be played out between the various subsidiary, transparent, professional views and bodies of the church. One of the roles of this Commission must negotiate the purchases and markets with members of the National Church, both dedicated and uncivilized. So she must have left her arms a long distance from the church's dedicated government and enjoy freedom from it. As a result, a review of the national church laws is a matter of making good plans for this area, but it also prevents tension between the Commission and/or the church's secretary - general and the Bishop's office, for example. The Management Board must respect theological viewpoints and the dedicated heads of financial arguments. - In order for the co - workers to walk anointed despite the cultural mothers that often seem to lie between these two worlds - mentally and economicly - all need a complete sense of church understanding so that all are heading in the same direction. It is clear, then, that the Council is awaiting many challenging tasks in the coming years to find out the new position that follows the new agreement and when this bill becomes legal. That is where the revised and simplicity of the folk church law is the most important thing, as I mentioned earlier. One of the principles laid down in this law is the absence of funds, such as the balance fund and the Christian Fund. These are funds that have mattered to the church and were thinking, like the highest. A minister mentioned in his talk, to face the loss of the church's income when the State took over the property and the church no longer received interest from them. There's a bit of a point to the money they're about to get into one fund now, so to speak, one pot, if that's what these funds have had with their hands, and that they're going to submit to the special government that I think is still important.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u116	A respectable president. As I understood. A minister earlier is the separation of state and church, definitely somewhere in an indefinite future but certainly in the future. When is it not clear in the books, since we now have this additional agreement, which has a review law in 15 years or something about which is contrary to public financial law, to be absolutely clear. This was evident when the last prime news of church independence was proposed. I wanted to ask you what. A senator on segregation of state and church which is clearly about to happen, just a question of when, and especially in view of what is happening. A senator is a financial body member, working with a law on public financial matters that covers a period of about five years. If we were to cut this financial relationship between state and church as it is today, we would certainly have to finish the contract, of which there is no doubt, but it will last five years, not 15 years, based on the government law, since the treaties of treaties in contracts are really not in the agreement after all. I'd like to have some. To discuss only these strange efforts of the government to say, on the other hand, that there will be segregation of state and church, while it will be a 15 - year contract that conflicts with the government law on public finances with no assurance that the separation of the state and church will be completed at the end of a 15 - year period. It is only said of a remuneration, such as whether the church hires her to say yes or no, that the state is going to stop collecting income taxes for the fees or do whatever else it takes to stop interfering with church affairs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u117	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I know this conversation. Hv. A senator has given it up in his work within the legal committee, i.e. the length of this added agreement. Now I don't know exactly how the contract was conducted. It was in the hands of the European Commission and I expect them to be well reviewed by the legal factors that need to be considered on such a contract. What I just want to say is that what lays the basis for all this is, like, a bang. A senator knows a fine church meeting that is unfashionable. It is a legal agreement made by the church and the State on the basis of church property, and I know why. A senator has made a good study of this. So, with the 1907 accord, the State receives oversight of the Church's land, which then had about 25% of the country, and in 1997 the state receives the land, and gives its property to the State against the price that is being paid to this day. There is so much debate about whether the pay is complete or not, and I know what it is. A senator has definite opinions on this matter. But I believe that, because of what. The senator specifically asked about the length of the contract, that there is something that the Commission has taken care of, and must have taken into account the legal requirements to follow in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u118	A respectable president. Yes, I do have a view of the church meeting, which includes certain transfers on earth from church to State. It was long trying to find out what these earths were and what their values were on earth. In 1992 a church property report was published until 1984, where there was an evaluation of real estate and of the value of church remains and that is not necessarily sold in one way or another for a priest's fee and many of these. The height there sounded to billions of people at that time, the value of the year, which is up to 3 billion or something like that, I don't quite remember. My opinion of that, just from the data we have access to, is that we have obviously paid up the church meeting. I base my opinion on the evidence and there are no data to question it. I was just comparing the amount of money we have paid in the church meeting with the amount contained in the report published in 1992. These are the best data we have. After all, though, it is unconvinced that the earth is truly worthwhile. When a man asks what a scandalous debt is on earth, which was transferred from church to State in those years and the 1997 agreement we're paying up, there's no answers. They don't know. However, it is to be recorded under government law, not to answer when asked by a financial committee. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm worried about monitoring the budget for the money that's going to the church. [[The president calls.]] That's why I'm concerned with the Constitution on the matter that we're actually breaking a little bit of the constitution. [[The president calls.]] So even if we ask and try to follow up on that budget and do our monitoring duties, we can't get answers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u119	In spite of an interesting discussion, the president has to be less concerned. Councilmen are required to watch their deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u120	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. We need to realize that the church meeting has nothing to do with the position of the National Church in the Constitution. It is a legal agreement, as I mentioned earlier, and this agreement stands unfashionable and is established in the additional contract adopted in September by the last year between state and church, and it is now being changed by law which is necessary to achieve its full significance. I know that, and why. A senator has also established this in a budgetary committee, according to this collection and if the value is given, this will have been fully paid. I don't think it's just a normal comparison, okay? Senator. I don't know what the Ministry's job is about and where it is. A senator has been asking about this, but the point is that it was laid down to the church's property, which, in fact, is valuable that it is difficult to add a number. If, for example, we have a nose, what is the value of the Þingvall? What's the value, for example. Almost the entire park town on which the whole town stands? It was all owned by the church and immense value to form on Acdéri, and in the citynes, and in other places. This is a normal question. A senator, but I think they also have normal answers. We must also not forget, so that I come to know that by the end, the Church of Nations provides a tremendous amount of service throughout the land that is benefiting and has shown itself that it is especially powerful now that we have had this viral epidemic. The great and good service that the Church has rendered to the people of the land is invaluable.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u121	A respectable president. Thank you so much for all 15 minutes. Maybe I don't have to use all of them, see. It is interesting to continue with this discussion, which started with the question. paritaprevir Birgir Þórarinsson earlier. There was a price tag in this report at the Thiing Field. Those land was sold in Garðatown. They had been turned in price tag, were legally sold, and as a result, most of them are not part of this report. That's just the way it is. When it's sold on Earth, it's got something valuable. But when we ask what the price tag was, we don't get any answers. We all know, and I can't see that anyone really objects that after all - maybe the amount is so high that we've never managed to pay off the head seat. However, the evidence does not indicate that. It's just that way compared to the data we have. We did a lot of good with them, trying to get better data and more, and so on, but the 1992 report was done, and it's the best good we can do. In fact, we have had to recycle it, but we have reached the same conclusion. We can try to do it over and over again, but on the basis of the opinion I made on this report, she was very successful. She had a final price. If there is a added contract to pay for the provision made, it will also be with the final amount. Surely we can ask: What is the final amount? It is simply to be accounted for by the government's loans, the state of debt. What are the state's outstanding debts? This amount should be shown in accordance with official financial laws. She hasn't yet. In fact, the church has asked about this exact information, asking to find out what is an outstanding debt. It's not just me calling for this. I don't understand why you can't answer that. That's very strange. This has increased church independence. There are simple rules, etc., but what is not said is, What is the goal after all? Is the goal just to simplify the rule? Or is the goal really to take a step in separating state and church in this financial line? It simply has to be said. This is a step toward it. Otherwise, we cannot take a particularly good view of what is the ultimate objective of these movements and contracts being made. Is this a contract to separate state and church? I don't see that it's because there's still this endless amount of money on behalf of the church meeting. The limits of contract time on public financial law are deliberate. It's 15 years here. Public finance law has to be restricted that there may be a longer contract period, but certain conditions must be met, that must be explained why they do not have to be met, and that was not required. They just said 15 years. We obviously don't care why we need 15 years, not five. It is very strange and strange that the European Commission does not answer those questions when the lawgiver asks. The government is to answer questions about such negotiations and legislation. Something else is very serious. Then we're agreeing to the National Church, and we have no idea what it's actually paying for. Therefore, I am concerned about the Constitution of the budget and the management of the implementation of budgets and the use of budgets, the goals to achieve, the policy and the results of the distribution of documents at the council. There's nothing like that in this deal, nothing, except to support and protect the State Church for 4 billion, do it well, you can do whatever you want us to do, we don't need to know anything about it. We don't set goals, we don't set any conditions, we don't set anything. Yet, we are not violating a constitution that says that we should ask, "Why is this coin being used, not gay? " What is the objective of sharing the money with others on this project? It's nothing like that. That's why I'm concerned about the laws of the Constitution in terms of this increased independence. After all, the situation is really different from what it is now, because even if we ask now, we can't get answers. So we have this great arrangement, in that I feel at least, that we simply cannot fulfill our surveillance role in the implementation of funding when it comes to the National Church. We can't get answers from the executives, much less from the church, if that's the case. I have held a few talks on this subject, and it will in fact be clearer and clearer to me that despite all the conditions we set, e.g. On official financial matters, on the Constitution and on everything we want to do right, it is so that when it comes to this concept of national interest, there are a lot of people willing to just look away and say, "Yes, we don't have to live by these laws completely in this respect. He has a special place in our heart, as if there are reasons for doing things differently than for all the others who certainly have a special place in the hearts of others, if we take a philosophy of life or something else. Yes, Iceland has been a Christian for over 1,000 years or so, and before it was a Christian, there were other gods who were worshiped and thus were gods of our country. And before that, the living things that were then in the land were equal, whether they worshipped any god or not. I have no desire to go on to the argument, the authority, that because Christianity has been so long in the country then we must have a national church forever and ever. If we look at just the purpose of religion, we can totally understand the politics in them, their purpose as political power in the past, and as the traditional force of today, without actually any concern of their doctrines over the standard of human morality. I find it very necessary to make clear as soon as possible what the government and the council actually intend to have this strange financial relationship between state and church. This is a strange relationship because all normal rules regarding aspects of the Constitution of religious freedom and such. If church affairs were within the EEA, it would definitely be viewed as a government support for a particular religion over the other. We would simply hear, "I can't do this, it's not good enough. " It would be possible to have a special political law in a constitution without breaking, for example. State support rules by upholding the diocese for cultural purposes, not necessarily religious, as if it were a museum. But we are faced with the fact that, over and over again, there are spectacularly strange contracts that violate the authority to be held at the General Assembly, under supervision, by law. For some reason, people don't make comments to those offenses, as I would like to call them exactly, anyway, in terms of infinity in the amount and duration of contracts. I make a very simple requirement for this and the jury: To answer clearly when asking where the goal is. Is the goal of disrupting the relationship between Church and State? If not, how will this arrangement end? I've asked them many times in specific matters, but for some reason, people don't answer. The Ministry will not answer or refuse to answer, and then the meeting will be finished, and everyone will leave, and you will just have to wait until next time. A very common way to avoid answering unpleasant questions is to wait until the time is up. That's what happens very often with sources that appear to the Committee when the Ministry comes in. When asking unpleasant questions, questions are always collected from all members of the committee, and so is the opportunity to answer, and they answer about Any questions, but leave out the unpleasant things. And then time is up and the Ministry has to go and you can't get the answer to the question. This is a procedure that is repeated in this case. You ask simple questions, it's been done in writing, asked at committee meetings, and asked in writing a question from a financial committee, all the financial committees actually send this question, but the answer simply isn't. There are regulations that have to do with the Minister's responsibility when a minister is to answer General's direct questions. That's where this case is fixed. There's a small administrative move on who pays no difference after all, nothing, because it's just transfers within the same system, the other side of the same coin. That's where this case is fixed. A minister comes up here and says that he is increasing the independence of the church. Yes, all right, the church itself within these devices as a state - and - church relationship is certainly able to say a little more about things, which are good and blessed, but within the system that is a state and church relationship, things are completely unchanged. We're still paying a huge amount for something we have no idea what is. Seriously, we don't know. Of course, priests'wages can be counted and included in such a way, but the question is always, "Why? " And then there's no answer. Once again: I look forward to seeing the Commission's discussion on this subject and calling for the committee to ask the same questions, exactly the same questions: Where is the constitutiond surveillance under this procedure? Where does this end? Does this end in a separate state or church?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u122	A respectable president. We will discuss yet another bill about the status, government and practices of the National Church, the ideal institution, and will include this bill in simplifying much of the legal columns involved. All of this is in harmony with the so - called church meeting. Now I have, like, two o'clock. Councilmen before me, holding more than one and more than two, fine, possibly three, are in charge of this subject. I'm going to try not to tire out the entire audience by repeating everything I've said, for that would probably take more than 15 minutes. On the other hand, I have to say I'm not from the fact that I'm supporting this bill. I just don't like why it's in here, i.e. The factors behind the fact that it is presented, the basis behind all this work that is going on in terms of not only maintaining the church meeting but strengthening it even more in the future. That's what I think of a prerogative, a respectable president. I think it's dishonest. We have had many discussions with the fact that prices for these earths are endless. Hv. Councilmen have only muttered about this. No doubt we will do more in the future, and what will be the value of the Thunder field and what the value of the land under buildings in Gardour is and that. What was it worth in 1907? I don't know. What I know is that there was no more than a number of atoms in the universe, the number is lower than the money the Icelandic state intends to pay, because that number is infinite, as has been over several times. I've already begun to repeat myself, and I'm going to try to get to the subject of the bill. That means removing a lot of laws, which I'm generally fond of if it isn't by the better. I have it in common with many independents, at least as they speak, that I often like to take something from the law rather than to put something into law. There are some things removed here, so I'm not gonna count it all out, but it's like that. The equal funds and regional funds and other things. But what especially caught my attention is 2 c. The bill. There's a II. Chapter of the Christian Fund, 18,◯23. ... removed. It is not surprising, as the chapter says, that a fund is to be set up called a Christian fund, covered with contributions, and paid for priestly, theologians, and etc. The good boys of the day, of course, have no place in a law code in today's society, in my opinion. But what's interesting about all of this is not in itself what is removed but what remains. You see, the law on Christian treasure, contains, or contains, 23 articles. Here's a suggestion for 18,◯23. par. ... they'llrunaway. All right, brilliant. Earlier, there had a total of 1,◯4. par. has been removed, and a total of 6,◯17. par. So there is only one article left. It is the infamous and the wicked fifth grass. the law of Christianity, which we have reasoned in the past; and in fact, the one who stands for a bill has ordered that it be removed. It is the article that obligates the rural communities to contribute free property to churches and to keep them free of charge. I'm amazed that the Ministry, the Minister, went to that job, examined these laws, and thought, "I'll take all of this out, but let's keep this ancient law, which is that I know of incomprehensible and incomprehensible things. " There are some historical reasons why this was a good idea of primitive and poorer and worse times, but there is no reason to have the law of law today. So I strongly assume that at least one minority mask is missing. The General and Education Committee will be a proposal to remove the whole law, as we Pirates so much as some independents, from time to time. You cannot discuss these matters without discussing the relationship between Church and State. This is about the relationship between Church and State. It has many familiar friends, and one of them is the church meeting. By the way, that in itself is true. paritaprevir Þórarinsson and others would say that the church assembly itself does not exist and falls with 62rd degree. The Constitution of the State Church, as it is called there. It's just a deal the state makes with some institution. All right, let's say that this is true, but it does not change that the agreement was evidently made to eliminate future generations from the possibility of separateing state and church completely, by removing special governmental protection, and thereby by providing special legal protection. This is the dishonesty I mentioned earlier in my speech, a dignified president. Authorities act as if they're doing something that's in good because it works out, and it's standing up for some purpose that's not said out loud. It is obvious that this was the purpose, and it is obvious that the support of the high - paying church meeting comes from that direction. People simply want to maintain this relationship, even though the Constitution is changed, even if the legislation is simplified. At any rate, the person mentioned here hopes that someone might have been offended because otherwise he may not have understood correctly. I have earlier mentioned in my talk that I find it inappropriate in a modern society that we have a state church, State, or national religion, or a definition of religion that identifies it as something more than anything else. For the very same reason, no one else, I don't think it's appropriate for members of Congress to create legislation for all citizens of the country, regardless of their beliefs, to proselytize specific gospels or doctrines of a set religious body. The problem is that in the Republic's constitution under which we work here, there is a requirement that a certain religious body, which represents a particular doctrine, should have a special protection. If I be a senator, and I am against this law, what power do I have to change it? Yes, I have to talk about the doctrine myself. I have to go on theological issues and try to convince both voters and other members that this is the wrong religion, that religion and the doctrines that are specifically protected in the Constitution are wrong, materially wrong and possibly morally wrong, such as, for example, wrong. prejudiced toward women in the New Testament, not the Old Testament, but the New Testament. It's not my fault that it's right there, and I can't be ashamed to point out that, although it's a rich tradition for such things among many religious groups, as we know, unfortunately. I'd rather not do it, but I wondered if it's the only way. If it's said that we should not have a national or national or religious or biological standard on the simple grounds that this is the legislation of the entire population, it is believed that a majority of Icelanders feel that they are Christians, that they belong to the religion that is probably true, give it to us at least. So, what advice do you have? To convince the greater part that he is wrong and that he is less wrong. Is it the right way for members of the council to stand here in a church and take over the deep beliefs of people in a material way, go out into it, prove that it is not quite true, not entirely accurate, not quite historical, and just not even able to think about it? I don't want to go there at this scene here. I'd love to do that in a radio interview or writing, but not here, a respectable president, because it's inappropriate. That discussion doesn't belong here. What we have here is legislation for all citizens alike, regardless. religious convictions, sex, sex, regardless of all factors. Then I will finally refuse to accept that the discussion of separating state and church and making secular authorities of today's society, at peace, all definitions of the religious convictions of the nation, is somehow an attack on Christianity or Christians. It's at best an unconscious outturn. I'll do them the favor to think he's unconscious, in fact, I think in some cases he's aware, but let's just try to get the best out of people, let people enjoy the doubt and all that. But when it comes to religious talk in general, people want an individual to disagree, being wicked, they want. It wants to be offended, and it wants to hurt. They want to take things personally so that they can turn around and point to someone who dared to criticize the dogmas, the dogma, and say: No, this truth is your fault. You personally teach that you believe what you believe or do not believe what you do not believe. This, a respectable president, is nothing less than the cornerstone of the Arab religions over the years, that it is sinful not to believe that faith is virtue. In case of a moment. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson told me a lot of nonsense to me and I could see that it was a total nonsense - it never happened to me, but let us know that possible reality exists - I'd say, Hv. Senator, I just can't believe you. [[Up front.]] Is it my fault that the facts are in front of me the way they do? No, a respectable president. It is not virtue to believe, and it is not a sin to doubt, contrary to the doctrines of the Evangelical Lutheran religion. But now I'm letting go of the material of the very best institution. I feel it's wrong to go too far, and to establish my case of that conviction, so I'll finish my case here, but I expect the discussion to continue until the Icelandic state, the Constitution, the legislation, and all that is part of the government of the United States will be secular. [[Foreground on, Amen.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u123	A respectable president. I recommend two primes, one hand for a bill on a deck. 1221, No. 713. It consists of a bill to correct a variety of seafaring laws, fish farming and salmon and trout fishing because of simple regulations and administration. On the other hand, I recommend a bill on the roof. 1222, No. 714. It consists of a bill to correct a variety of agricultural and food laws because of simple regulations and administration. The bills are written at both the pro-address and the Neo-creation Ministry. The Government Treaty states that there will be effort in simple regulations for the sake of employment and the public and emphasis on efficient and just government. In accordance with this, at my Ministry, a three-year operation program has been developed which targets a simple rulework. The development of the Action Programme is a top priority in the Ministry and has been advising the project for the winter. In accordance with the first phase of action, I have removed 1,242 regulations and two law columns as well as a simple rule on the food chain. The recommended primary warnings are part of another stage of the above-mentioned Action Programme. The bills are the product of broad consultations made with the principal stakeholders and agencies of the Ministry, such as Food Institute, Fish Institute, Marine Research Institute, Iceland's National Association and Their Substitution, the European Economic Organization, the European Commission, the Industrial Organization, the Organization for Business and Service, and others. The early projections suggest a number of important changes to the current food, agriculture, marine soil, fish farms, and salmon and trout fishing legislation. The changes are linked to promoting simple regulations and administration. First, I will take part in the changes proposed by bill to legalize the various laws of fishing, fish farming, salmon and trout fishing. It is suggested that 22 entire legal groups be removed. It is a law that is out - of - date or that has no material value anymore. For example, there is a suggestion to remove the law on cheese farming, but for cheese industry the law on shell farms, food laws, as well as natural protection laws. So there is no need for special laws on oyster farming. It is also suggested that the law be removed to aim tickets for trespassing on gold jars, but such criteria have not been applied since 1977. The bill also suggests laws to simplify administration. It is suggested that a warrant be dismissed for fishing by drag code, while the Fishing Room has issued such a license. At the same time, in the bill, it is proposed to dismiss the legal authority of a minister to grant hook - bearing boats permission to fish on bottom animals with the necessary fishing tools, such as plows and traps, as well as net sleek fishing. Instead, it is suggested that the catchs in a Regulation be discussed without any specific permit. This will reduce the number of licenses published by the Fish Room, which have been produced in her hands. The bill also appoints the decision-making committee to lay down an unsurpassed sea level. It is suggested that, instead of being allowed to sue the decisions of the Fish Room, the Ministry's Law. This decision - making committee has been rather forthcoming, especially since the work of the fishing lab has been completed. The annual annual costs of the work of the Committee have also been limited to 2◯3 million per year over the past few years. The main reason for suggesting that the committee be brought to a conclusion is how quickly it will be discussed. It is normal for her assignment to be taken to the Ministry. It is then suggested that the simple treatment of the immediate valves so that the Fish Service gains the authority established by the Institute of Marine Research to ban certain fishing temporarily with the immediate closures. Almost all of the immediate valves are based on the size of the Watchers of the Fish Room, allowing them to be in the hands of the same institutions. It should be noted that it will remain in the hands of an EEC to recommend a minister on the threshold of fishing for small fish. The bill also suggests removing the obligatory duties of the Fish Room in order to provide special journals. The reason for this is that the electricalization of aquifers is now being completed, and it is unnecessary for the Fishing Room to provide water for the ships of a father's day. There is also an application for the collection of information available to the head of a fishing vessel without a major problem. This allows for all registries and dialysis to become electronic. As a result, the use of paper books will be stopped, so the Fishing Room no longer needs to be available for printing. The bill also suggests a small simple proposal on fish farms, which is mainly a suggestion to reduce the reporting of fish farms that produce less than 20 tons a year. According to the Food Agency it is not considered that the emissions of these sources are as thorough and as frequent as those in larger fish farms, which produce much of that quantity. Finally, in the bill it is suggested that the management of commercial fishing equipment will be simplified. In the current law, it is mandatory to disinfect the food equipment that has been used abroad before entering the country. Most fishing devices arrive in the country at Leifs Station, as well as other airports and import seas. This procedure has been monitored and given instructions by the Food Organization. In addition to this, every year the workers of the Food Agency have been disinfected by dozens of fishing tools. The bill suggests that at the latest you have to disinfect your fishing gear before you use it for fishing in Icelandic fish water. It is suggested that food agencies be able to hide markets for fishing in accordance with the standards established by the Agency. This process seeks to simplify the implementation of this disinfectant as there is increased responsibilities for the hunters and fishermen who are interested in protecting against fish diseases. Then, the changes proposed by bill to legalize various laws on food and agriculture. First, the bill is suggested for the removal of a total of 12 law columns. Most of this is a law that is out - of - date or that has served its purpose, and it seems appropriate to be dismissed. It is desirable that laws that do not exist for any purpose will be taken away from the law, since this is in order to strengthen the conviction of the court. Among the 12 laws proposed to be removed are the law of sorting and valuing in yesterday and wool, No. 57/1990. There is no reason to use specifics on the subject. The NTSB, which shall be carried out under the law, has not served for years. Similarly, a special wool - food committee is not needed to determine a conflict on wool's food. Emphasis is made that the manufacturer is responsible for ensuring the quality of his production without the public. In view of the comments made by the stakeholders that it was important to establish a new arrangement before the law went away, a decision was made to delay the withdrawal of the law to November 1, 2021, allowing a little more time to work on the change. The bill as presented by government consultations was suggested to set the quality assessment of a blood vessel, No. 52/2005, will be eliminated as a whole. Under the law, all blood vessels should be estimated and weighed by law-enforced valuaries after full clearance, prior to distribution into the domestic market or for exportation, for the quality of a valematian's evaluation should be obtained by a certificate. It is reason to hide manufacturers themselves to ensure the quality of production without the government's interference. The open consultation process of the bill received comments from stakeholders who opposed the idea. As a result, the decision was made to compromise the proposal for evaporation of a blood vessel's quality assessment by means of the bill. In addition to the proposal to put down a wool - food committee and a yesterday committee, it is suggested that the market committee, the government committee, and the Sheep's Disease Committee. All the committees share in common that there has been little activity in these past few years, but only a few of their talks are received. These changes are suggested in order to simplify management and to improve efficiency. The work of the Sheep Disease Committee and the Committee for Justice will be transferred to the Food Agency. The bill also suggests that the removal will be performed by the Ministry's Interchange in a number of cases, as well as the confirmation of a minister, and that changes are made in order to make administrative arrangements more efficient. That's what it's like. suggested that the Food Organization be assigned to perform various formal tasks previously carried out by the Ministry. These changes are designed to shorten a channel where the current intervention of the Ministry is seen to be a distraction to the administration. It is suggested that the license be performed on a 1 mg basis. Count 9. food will be released without time binding. As a result of the change, food companies do not have to apply for renewal on their jobs because of the same cost as their own, but it is enough to apply for a one-time leave. In addition, the bill suggests that the management of sheep's markings will be simplified. In this connection it is suggested that the earmark be removed from the earmarks of lambs, but there will be permission of law on the hierarchical products, mountain signs, etc. for earmarking of lambs. In this country, it is customary for sheep to have an earmark so that they can be drawn into sheep by side. With new types of markings, album marks, earmarks are not needed. The change is suggested in the power of individual farmers to decide whether they will have an earmark for their financial resources. As previously said, a target committee will be removed, but the change will result in the final outcome of the decision made. In addition, it is authorized to assign other parties, Iceland's Farmers, to oversee the coordination and production of new markets and new markets. It is suggested by the bill that food companies who operate fish farms and have a valid license under the rules of fish farming because of the production. Initial production refers to the fire of fish until the slaughter. Since the production of food on slaughter and further treatment is a Marketing Authorisation, however, such persons should have employment permit for slaughter and processing. The change suggests that a stream of food companies working for fish farms, allowing a license to be implemented in the value of a protocol for the Food Institute and a challenge for approval due to the role of the process that falls under the priming process. The bill suggests that the appointment period for the Commission will be extended from one year to four years to make the work more progressive and efficient instead of the need to reorganize on the committee every year. Finally, the announcement of the immigrants and the manufacturer of the feed within the EEA is suggested except for medicated food, food additives and their premix. This should be considered mainly for the import and production of the application and seed products, as well as for all the food delivered from the countries outside the EEA. The change will simplify these specific feed products from states in the EEA and the change will lead to a simple and smaller extent of import work for importers so that immigrants will not be allowed to register food in the Food Agency or report any shipments to the country. The effect is expected to be comparable in national manufacturers. With the change, the emphasis is shifted from document control to market surveillance for food and food supplies. A respectable president. I've traced the main elements of both bills, and I'd like to refer to the reports of the proposed primary sites, which, of course, are being discussed in detail. After the discussion, I suggest that the primary projections be referred to a second cover. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u124	President. These are two long bills that change many laws. Since this is so extensive and changes little things, as shown in the bill, this article in this law is spoken of as being so queer, and as a result of such disgusting unpleasant work, there is a moral hazard for a minister who makes such an offer. It's easy to sneak things in, let's just say it that way. Now I'm not saying that the highest. Minister Kristján Þór Júlíusson is trying to do it, of course not, I have no idea. All I know is that there is a temptation. Therefore, it is my job to remain on a professional committee that will continue to do my best to keep my perspective on the matter, to see what is being changed, and to what is involved. Is there power being given? I'm very fond of this sort of legislation, clearing out laws that have become meaningless, I'm very fond of simple regulations, that it's clearer and more efficient and effective, it has its purpose. So I really like the main purpose of this kind of work. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister whether he will help me with the job of handling this well on the job committee by getting from the Ministry of Work the existing work documents of Changes, by permission of presidents, by modification papers, so that we on the Committee can better understand what is being changed. When I begin to pass through this and see, with the permission of a president: a minister can set a general and regional directive in a Regulation, to which increased power he may gain. [[The president calls.]] This is where the Fish Room is divided for the Marine Research Institute, the Rapporteur for the investigator. [[The president calls.]] What does that mean? Why?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u125	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Yeah, it's a long prime radio, a bit complicated to get a perspective on this, but it's not too boring to win this thing. It's not. I'm quite convinced that when it happens. A senator who shares my opinion on the matter that it is important to simplify the routine and clean up the room, etc., enter the subject, and sees what is being done to ease the process. I'm convinced of that. The Ministry should not be allowed to inform and cooperate with the Commission because it is basically a very good thing and can be done better in this regard. I am convinced that there are more similarities than memory, so during the review of the committee, she sees more opportunities to clean up the whole thing. Also, I think it is very important in my discussion that the Committee is getting information about the next steps that are due in this three-point job. It consists of monitoring rules that in many cases overlap, not just in this category, but between causes of heartburn, etc. I think it's the best thing to do if we get more perspective into their processing, more eyes to look and head to think. That's why I'm saying the Ministry is grateful to be able to provide all the information on the case and to look forward to cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u126	Mr. President. Many of these are the most interesting things and other fire - old laws that are no longer applicable. However, I would like to ask the Minister what is not in the bill. Why is it not the mistake that the Council made here not long ago, to have comparable rules about land - age accidents? A few months ago, Mr. President, I was in the south of Grindavík, where a fish farm using proben has been waiting for a year and a half before permission to expand because the three institutions have taken time to clear up the permits. I witnessed an accident cut there, a pink one who wanted to go to a meeting of freedom, jump overboard, and land in the lava. It's seven miles to the sea, but this company is designed to have the same defense of accidental exodus, such as a marine farm. I understood in the management department that this was a financial burden. Another thing I miss, too, and I'm not here about a smaller fire, as you say. One northern pioneer has been standing in a clot because he is granted permission to wear a few pink slips in a pond, as well as a permit like Eaglelax. Why is it not a goal for humans to try to solve such a simple matter and simplify their whole life?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u127	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Many of these things are interesting, and it's good to get rid of old laws and rules from a code of law. You're absolutely right. Right away. A senator asks about things that aren't in the bill I rejoice at his inquiry for the simple reason that we first entered the laws specified there, and there I tried to take a rough look at various factors, from a married committee, etc. I expect to deal with the factors that arise. A senator mentions, varied demands between such factors as agriculture and fishing for fish, in the third stage of this work that we started last year. We cleaned up the Regulation first, and then we went into the code of law to clean up. The self-monitoring guidelines are now under consideration, and I expect to get the first chance next month. I can't express myself on a special matter in the beautiful valley of replying because that case is a lawsuit, but I have a complete understanding of the views as well. A senator carries in about that. The case is in a particular process of the institution. I agree with the view that it is unnatural to make the exact same demands of surveillance if we are comparing land to seawater. For the senator, I know of an older fire application on land fish than a year and a half; I've seen worse examples. [[The president calls.]] There are some stoppers in this system that we need to deal with.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u128	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I'm happy if you bring up a new bill that'll deal with what I'm talking about. That's right, in the situation we're in right now, where we're getting unemployment of tens of thousands of people, I've felt that there was a lack of a vision for the government, i.e. To perform tasks that we know are urgent, menial, and worthwhile. That's where the land fire comes in very strong. That's why I would have thought it was one of the greatest projects at the highest level. Minister and his people. If an enterprise has waited longer than 18 months after a simple change in its business, an enterprise that in that case I mentioned double its production capacity and the worth of it will probably be 1 billion a year, if I remember this correctly - we can't afford to drag a company in such a position of response because there are some caps in the system. That's not a satisfying answer, Mr. President. That's why I must encourage the highest. Minister to make sure that this system will be blocked when it is used.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u129	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's insistence to do better in payment allows waiting ones, especially in the case of agriculture. But I don't completely agree with what. A senator with a lack of vision of the factors that need to be promoted in an effort to overcome unemployment. I'm reporting from my media that we were given additional financial resources to speed up the efforts of fish farmers. In that area, certain work is already under way. Similarly, there has been an increase in money to promote agreements with gardeners and then to the establishment of the Food Fund, which is to promote work in this area. In this respect, I would like to mean that we have an excellent perspective in the realm to the importance of creating more jobs. [[The president calls.]] I thank you again and look forward to working with it. A senator dislodging the stoppers in the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u130	A respectable president. Twenty-niner. The bill on deck. 1222 is a deportation of various laws. There are six layers, e.g. The law on the drying of domestic animals and the laws of change of farms, which are not just old and gone, but of empty laws without law. They got nothing in them. It's part of Pirata's bill for removing 208 empty songs. To date, the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs has provided a bill for the removal of his share of empty laws. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers have done the same thing as currently being accepted by the marine dignitary and agricultural ministers. It's just wonderful. This is the third government case today taken from the Congress of Pirata. It's very enjoyable for Pirata to get her way through the government indirectly. What interests me is why, in all these matters, Pirata will always stop on a committee if they get so hair-headed into the government case at the next council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u131	A respectable president. Thank you for the answer and the lovelyness. It's getting a little bit thoughtful if the Pirats are starting to file one thing after another. It is happy if we share a vision and agree on a particular emphasis being made at the council. It happens a lot more often than in general on tables, I think. In this case, legal cleansing takes place. The same was true of regulations. We're violating 1,242 regulations, some completely out of place, others, for simplicity, etc. There's plenty to take. I just want to let myself compliment the Pirates for the bill they laid out in their time. It was a good idea, and I think there's been a lot of work going on in this business to reduce the degree of trial or anything like it by hanging in the library and not saying anything. It's just fine. It's in the mind of a man. A senator's wonderful and good day, and I wish him that they may only be others in his life.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u132	A respectable president. This is a fine example of how things can be handled without the issue of government or power. After all, we agree on things, and we don't need a power chair to get it through. Today, though, this matter is certainly their application. Instead of simply allowing matters to be settled by committees and halls to be passed, Congress has become tribunals and government cases. I just wanted to draw attention to the power program that before the last election we had no interest in cooperating with the Independence Party, but, of course, there is always a controversial cooperation on individual matters, such as legal cleansing. [[The president calls.]] They can be taken care of and met without power.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u133	A respectable president. I think that on the basis of this, it is primarily about how people find their way and work for them. Then there will always be some conflict that calls for conflicting views, and it is only best to disagree with people as long as we have the advantage to be perturbing in that debate. Reasons why the matter may arise at a council may include some things, there is no need to question them. The well that can be drawn out from different reasons why a matter stops is inexhaustible. It can range from the very nature of the matter to the fact that some senator does not see the day as wonderful and just between. I hope in these matters we can have the best cooperation. In view of what was manifested in the contrary to what was Þorsteinn. þm. I also believe that the Council members will assist us with the simple rules of law that are highly important in many areas and that require careful attention. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u134	President. I'd like to stay here just to the highest level. A minister suggested that I do well when speaking to him earlier about a simple act of order. When I've had a lot of time in the public assembly, I've been ashamed of the Food Institute and so much that in one speech, I confused her with Matis, and I'm asking Matize to respect it. I was not going to be forced into that institution. I'm happy if it's true what the Minister says, and I don't doubt it, that the simple rules will continue, and then I'm also going to take back the pioneers who have small business and which are done to pay as much as there are billions of business. Now it so happens that the Agency has just started to create the small manufacturer's products, and I think many of these producers, especially those who make rural areas, can die under what has been called a direct farm. A function that falls directly from a farm in itself is to be heard by a health - care representative. I have sometimes found that during the past few years there was an overlap between the Food Agency and the local Health Committee. I know that those who have complained all the most about this, whether they are in big or small business, have found that they have been receiving visits from maybe three parties or four in a row. I especially remember talking to a good operator in an Eastern country who had three or four members to his home each day, and they all charged before driving from Egls, from the airport where this fine company had a business. I think we can stop this from happening. In view of the conditions we are in, we need to clean up our business. We need to adapt to it. Then this comes back to me as I was talking about earlier, we can't afford it, especially now, to have agencies and patrolrs where the projects overlap and where binary is involved. We can't afford it. Other than that, this double type of effort may have diminished the ability of the members to get into their projects, to get their own business done. So I'm still going to mention the scene I previously traced, to come to the area south of York, where there's a company of pink farming in a very eco-friendly way, 7 miles from the ocean, but is still put out of the way of not having an accident. I'm willing to bet, after I've been there, and I've seen how surfing the lava coast that's an euphemised pink that could escape on a table, it'll only live for one minute on the surf she'll be on if she escapes to the sea. I am to blame on this case because if I remember correctly, I voted with this bill last year and just admit that I made a mistake because I missed this and definitely more. So should we. As I said before, I think, and have put it both in speech and in writing, that right now is one of our biggest possibilities for advancement, for increasing jobs, to increase production and production, and to increase production which could be both currency and currency, we should take much more land for land, and we should stop e.g. Water, such as from Hellish activation, flows down the elf and gradually cools off on the way and does not come near it. It's a waste, it's an insult to the natural world to have broken land and then to use only 15% of the force that's in the process. Nor can we afford to practice such a waste. There's your chances. I was talking about hot water, and I know I'm at the top. Minister has been involved in some action against our gardening, our great industry, but better if necessary. My proposal is simple, selling gardening, this industry, electricity at the same price as another major industry. This adds to the possibility that even more species can be produced, both for domestic use and for export. I'm still going to take this one example that I took in a talk that day. Today, the meaning of vanilla is at a global market as expensive as a gram of silver. It can be cultivated under glass. At the time, I was told that glass cannot be cultivated, but the Dutch have started it and, using proben, for amazing reasons I don't understand, there is a mile of time for gardening under glass even cheaper in the Netherlands than in Iceland. I have to ask you, why? I know that Rarik is a farmer for gardening but I admit that I have been turned on by people who run their companies in a 30-170 km line from the largest activation in Iceland to pay electricity that is comparable to when some man is ironing his shirt at Selephoss. The greenhouse for e.g. Smoke hole around it uses as much electricity as any year's city. The last time I knew, there were 600 people working in the Southland garden. It's a big deal. There's a possibility that we can produce all the species, both the ones we personally consume and the exports. If we're going to move out again, I'm going to remind you that if we're going to move out again, we're going to choose the species most expensive per kilogram to match the export costs we're fighting, but most of all, we're saving the carbon lines that come from transporting vegetables from the Canary Islands to Iceland regularly or west of America. I've only been out a few miles, but I had to get these things out of my system too, because the basis for all of this is the surveillance and the license party. Therefore, it must be as clear and effective as possible. It's a tough thing, Mr. President, if we're putting a stone in the street of a pioneer who's floundering across the country, rich settlements, subtracting tourists, this year of Icelandic origin and the rest of the years of both, that we, by the rules of law, prevent this development from taking place when it's based. We're not supposed to do this. We're not supposed to be too small on this. If so, as the minister says, and I don't doubt it, to consider these matters even more carefully, i.e. I must also suggest that there be a special review of where e.g. The activities of the Food and Health Monitoring Agency overlap. Is there a duplication? This needs to be checked, and it needs to be checked - the minister from the hall says it's for observation, and it makes me happy. [[We're looking at it.]] Finally, I have to confirm my conservativeness. I did not pay attention to the second bill that is also included in this discussion. My attention was brought to pars 11 and 12. that bill. By permission of the President, the first sentence in a report on Article 11. The following: It is suggested that the earmark be removed. I must admit, Mr. President, that there woke up in me the conservative because this is an age-old tradition in Iceland, part of culture, and the only party that had half of the past half of them were sheep thieves, Mr. President. It speaks of plastic signals, and they are good, but I say again: It's not easy to get plastic signals into a log, e.g. by taking half of it or by removing it in other ways. This has left its mark. I warn you, and I will fight that this will be done, both for cultural reasons and for the fact that the plastic label is not as safe as it is because much can happen to sheep on hand and in hand. There are natural fences, etc. which these animals can get into, and that's why I'm warning you. I also warn that it must be delegated to non-Subjects of Iceland to supervise the coordination and development of new logs, as follows, and to produce new boundaries because it also appears in the report on Article 12. that people have not yet found the party to take over. They say it's possible that this one or the other will, but they haven't been found yet. We may tend to make decisions here, where we want to change something, and we are so prone to change the possibility that we will rip something out of a relationship without finding a place else. We don't have to do this, there's no rush, and I think this bill would be better if it wasn't in there. I also notice in the bill that the Food Institute is given an enormous number of new projects, all very good, but I'm still going to remind you of the long pay period of the Food Agency that has come up over and over again. Then I think the government and the highest. A minister must make sure that a food clinic operates on these new projects when she is unable to handle it at a proper time in the work assigned to her. I'm just gonna record myself right now, Mr. President, because it's not normal to be waiting months to run a business together in which we might be purging ourselves already. This is disturbing, and I say again that we cannot afford this, Mr. President, especially with the present situation. Once again, I claim the highest. Minister and thank him for attending the entire discussion. I further urge him to seek that application and other activities regarding the Food Organization will be provided at an acceptable time, not for months, loss, or years. It must be more than--I must not say, Mr. President, because the Congress case is Icelandic - exhilarating for people who have done well in business and have everything ready to double that business and increase the value of exporting to sit together to wait for some institution to cough against the licences she's supposed to do. As I say, a new country is not being broken, it's being added to a already started and successful operation for years. Let's fix this right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u135	A respectable president. I would like to recommend our council decree, the Group members of the United States, to conduct operations for students on the behalf of Covid-19. It is well known that students have not been included in the hardships and difficulties associated with this virus's arrival, Covid-19, and therefore we recommend a general attack for this group. This group, I say, but students are not a single group, but they are a paradox of the community we call students. They are people from all walks of life, people of all kinds, hard-working people, and less hardworking people, people who do accomplishments, and people who may not accomplish something, and everything in between. Yet, these are all people who are supposed to be in that place in their lives as students. It's from one place in life and across to another place in life, and perhaps on this very journey you need some help, at least has the average student not in a large fund to pick up. In the last few weeks, many men have suffered severe downhills, and many students, as we know, have found that their food and extra work in all kinds of services that have been so badly affected during this year. People may work at restaurants, restaurants, or travel services, as well as for students, have had to be careful to study at home for whatever circumstances might take place there. In this regard, 34% of students are parents. This is a large percentage of young family members. It is clear that unemployment will increase rapidly over the weeks and months, and unfortunately it can be expected that it will take considerable time to reverse that trend. As a result, this situation is likely to make it difficult for students to enter the summer work this year. Therefore, governments need to ensure that students either have the right to unemployment benefits during the summer to meet this extreme uncertainty in the labour market or that adequate contributions are made by the Icelandic loan fund of students versus the efforts to increase the academic financial resources. The sea could even. An offer to students in part - time work who are unable to make use of the three - month extension to cover the gap over the summer with certain conditions fulfilled. The discussion has often presented itself, and it was actually discussed before this epidemic, the anxiety among young people as a special problem. Because of this epidemic's increase in anxiety, there is no need to be a problem, so we suggest that students are guaranteed access to psychological services. Two universities provide psychological counseling and group treatments, and the last loss has increased the attendance for that service. We also want students to have access to improved mental - health services. We want a mental - health service within the university that has such a service to be strengthened, that it will be guaranteed within all the university, paid down, and continued to be available to students throughout the country for September 1. Without supportive systems such as psychological support, learning cannot be guaranteed equally. The availability of a student's access to psychological research throughout the country is to increase general options in the psychological service, the availability of students, and the availability of reimbursement as a result of the expressed cost of psychological services. This suggestion also points to the fact that many students came home from foreign studies because circumstances did not offer to continue or stay. Some are still in their own country, and they have many problems. This needs to be done so that students do not face serious financial problems that can lead to a loss of education. So there are countless examples that students have had to make high - travel expenses for travel from abroad to Iceland, and it would be desirable for the loans to enter into it and to allow them to reimburse their expenses. As you might imagine, there are occasions where students cannot see the end of a spring test because of this situation, and they should be able to borrow from the loans. This operation is important in reducing the loss of Icelandic students from studies, both here and abroad. We know that the consequences of such a disfellowshipping could be devastating to students, even for a long time, and it would not be necessary to comment on national benefits of a major loss of education. It is very important that we continue to support and promote innovation and education by providing students who choose to study both abroad and here on earth an increased scope for the worldwide program. Then I'd like to comment on a few words about the position of a professional student who is being handled in this synonym. In recent discussions about the need for industrial education, I believe that almost a nation's state is expected to promote industrial education and direct more people there than has been in recent years. Industrial students are now particularly vulnerable to Covid-19. Much of a student's education is, as we know, in the form of a field education and trade students who rely on it to be taught at the same time. Without a contract, students of industry are in danger. We recommend that additional funds be made in Rannis's workforce so that more men can be made available to receive such traders. Then those who lose contracts by September 1 will need to have the opportunity to complete their studies in another way at an appropriate time. This helps to prevent evaporation from important subjects. The Union of Icelandic high school students has brought this problem to its attention, and comparable measures have been made in the North countries. As such, I suggest that the case be referred to the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u136	President. I didn't get to come up a little while, not necessarily to run away. A senator's comment on some answers is not always intended, but to state, as soon as I say that this proposal of all attention is worth, probably taking a look and evaluating the discussion that I feel will become more full of the many measures that have already been taken with the interests of students in mind. It's a part of what you're talking about. In his speech, a senator mentioned that once the growth of student loans has been reduced from 1% to 0.4%, the loan rate has been reduced in a way that reduces payments. The discount due to student loans is up to 15% in the world, and responsible men on loans taken before 2009 are eliminated, and this guarantees an equalance. This is a 14 billion - dollar operation. There has been a special campaign to keep a firm eye on the situation. At the beginning of his speech, a senator agree on the proposal, i.e. is identified with summer and potential for work, where the government has presented proposals for up to 2.2 billion dollars. will be spent to create 3,000 temporary jobs. I draw attention to the fact that the thought is also being added to the local community, making more work available for students. This has also been given 300 billion. K. to promote innovation among young pioneers and 800 million. K. to offer summer parties both in college and college. President. I just wanted to mention this to make it clear that there have already been some operations and then declare it, as I said at the beginning, that the suggestion is worth a lot of attention and counsel to sit over it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u137	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppér answers. I don't make comments about that. I realize that there have been steps that have been taken to deal with these students' problems, but the members of the United States Congress believe that better things can be done because this problem is very urgent. We have good reason to believe that such students, such as many other citizens, may face a major drop in income in various ways, but where students are on the side, they may land a little between ships and docks. We believe that in this council resolution, there are ways to meet the challenge.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-30-95.u138	A respectable president. In fact, it is a fine connotation proposal, that at the time of 1st. I confused this operation with academic unemployment and assumed that it was from the government. I was confused with her and her summer school, there are two things the government suggests, which increase summer education, and then money for summer students in 3,000 jobs or so. I listed another and listed the unemployment benefits that the government was doing, and I thought it might just somehow be filled up into the gap that could form. There are only a limited number of jobs available. Not everyone has a chance for summer education, some may fall apart, so this is a very normal way to bridge the gap technically. We'll see it coming soon from the committee.
