ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u1	Mr. President. For many months the government has ignored students' demands on providing them with the right to unemployment benefits, whether in the summer or because of their studies. Although students have for many years had to work along the course of study in order to make ends meet, simply because they have no right to be used by students through the student loan system. 69% of students in Iceland are working together with studies, and 87% of students are doing full - time work in summer. They've all been living up to the payment of a job insurance policy fund, some every decade, without any rights. What justice is there in this? Now it's due to change the distribution rules of Education for the work of health and welfare departments and the police and that income on account of them does not result in poor student loans. In the United States, we welcome this initiative to the highest degree. Of course, a minister of education, but this intervention for the individual matters precisely sheds light on the elephant in the living room, which is simply that the holiday target is far too low for everyone, not just behind, but for all students. For example, there is a general pay for more than 3 60,000 dollars in federal institutions. in a month, and if a student works there for one summer, he's over his credit target and his student loans are down. The vicious circle is on, the forward is impaired, and the student needs to work more. It is absolutely unannounced that this system prevents students from making money for themselves and their family during the summer or through part - time work. There is now a new law on education that has taken place on the responsibilities of a minister, not at the board of directors, i.e. To set the distribution rules, and therefore I challenge to the highest. Secretary of education is now going into this case and raising the holiday goal. That's a fair thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u2	V.E.G. President. The role of a financial body is important, and I think it is undisputed that the professional approach proposed to the Council is an essential part of the Council on the government policy and plans. I'm telling you, writing the role of a financial body into the law as done in 13. the law on public financial matters, which includes the following:Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: A financial body is independent of its jobs, evaluating whether financial and financial policies depend on the baselines and conditions of the 6th paragraph. and 7th pars. At the same time, it is recommended that the Council appoint representatives of the financial council in the light of the Senate's surveillance role and the responsibility of approved financial policy and financial programmes. To sign the role of a financial council in this way was a fascinating approach when the law was written and accepted, and I believe it has already been proved in the manner that the law puts upon the terms of the government. The value of the Council and its professional approach to the peculiar circumstances that we are now dealing with in the realm's affairs has not been reduced. Under such circumstances, the importance of a structured environment is also central. Now the ratings for budgetary management have been made by 2020/225 and found with a financial committee. It was a useful meeting as always. To some extent, to counterbalance with the political emphasis we deal with, consider the fundamental part of the discussion and must, of course, be there. However, it will be considered to be of great benefit to us so far in the discussion of the legal committee and the coming council. A respectable president. I'd like to agree with the court-saying council by permission of the president: ... to thank the laws on public finances and the procedures they publish for the well - prepared national standing to meet their present challenges.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u3	A respectable president. Mental - health issues are so widespread that mental - health help asks the public to sign a challenge to the government for their help, and it challenges people to sign on the page 39. As is the case today, children and adults with mental illness who need emergency care need a reference from their health care provider. And that's often a long wait. People even need to talk to an answering machine that even gives misleading possibilities. Instead of receiving immediate help, people from Pontíus Pilate are sent to Heródes. A respectable president. 1,193 children all over the country wait for an diagnosis or treatment of mental and psychological problems. The majority is the delay list at the Development and Behavioral Station where 584 children are waiting for analysis. 107 children are waiting for the diagnosis and treatment of the Children and Youth Department of the Lands Hospital, BUGL, and nine children are on the waiting list for hospitalisation in the department. We're having children with mental disorders wait, not just for months, but even for years. And there is no help for children who need to live with mental illness. It's also a broken pot. And what are the consequences for those children? Their schooling is upset, their future is upset, their family's future is upset. This can be avoided by making sure that children are not on the list.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u4	V.E.G. President. In 2012, a law against commercial fishing was given. In the same year, the directive stated that countries could be hatched as a source of drawn fishing instruments, trolls, scurvy and nets, and 80% of their resources were to be added to the Marine Research Agency and 20% to develop. But on line hunting and hooks the reins should be cut, and all lice should be let loose, whether she was alive or dead. I made a written inquiry to the minister at the Council of 2017-2018, and I found the answer to the question about how these tests were going, that there was now a better outcome of a crisis in connection with this, but it was not the time to issue a license for the hunt. The rate of growth was said to be about 5◯10 years. I have proposed the idea, and I do it again, that governments will publish a license to sound the hook-in, line-by-line, both for the land of value and for the Marine Research Institute to see a fine delay in their complaining over lack of financial resources for research. This would show some of the growth of the hatch and make value. A lot of these hatches are cut down, and everywhere around the country, boats are fishing to cut the reins and the hatch falls into the sea. It's a valuable matter. This is a big case that I think we should go on, especially now that we need a currency in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u5	Mr. President. We senators are here almost every day making decisions that will have a short and long - term effect on government affairs and government funds. We do so in the hope that once this virus is gone, our job life will be prepared to seize the opportunity and promote Iceland as never before. One of the main motivations that we middle class have made in this struggle is to cut down insurance and even cancel it now in the latter part of this year. This has not been agreed, and when our proposals were made, the prime minister observed, that they were unrealistic and could not be used in this way, and now because of much unemployment, the tax under unemployment could not be replaced. Today, there is nothing particularly popular about having a special tax in order to cope with unemployment. In itself, it is much more affordable and desirable to lower taxes, which will encourage companies to hire people. When this virus is down here, we have to restrict it to the point that a company will be encouraged to increase the number of employees rather than the loss of the staff. This is based on our future application, i.e. that we are not hanging our job life in an even greater tax dump and that we avoid the threat of unemployment here when you see the sun again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u6	Mr. President. The employment committee has been discussing the effects of Covid on the pay and the job life in the country. We had a well-informed meeting with key people in Southnes yesterday. There the collapse of tourism has had a tremendous impact on the entire world of employment, with over 25% of unemployment that is the most difficult in foreign people, young people, and women. This situation has increased the pressures of the welfare system and the anxieties of the long - term group of people who have been stressed to extend their rights. Older people who have lost their jobs are concerned, but they may find it difficult to get back into the job market. I share these concerns with you, and for good reason. Granted, the situation varies between rural partners and is unemployment, e.g. less in Grinsavík than in many other places. Despite a difficult situation, there is far from giving up in people. People are struggling, and they were delighted to learn that the action the State has taken has been of great importance. There is good reason to keep working with them and to make up where weak links are. A labour agency has been offering scholarships to companies. We have an extended income-related improvement period. The campaign for study is now under way. New jobs agreements have been made, as well as the part-change route and pay pay on notice. All of this is important, such as support loans and corporate support. The increase in money has been put on health and innovation projects and is being done by locals to command services in Njardík, with ideas for salmon farming. It is important to consider working for women in this situation and there is Istavia, a large workplace involved in increasing the number of jobs. There's all evidence that once we get back on the plane, Iceland will be a very attractive country to visit. We just need to keep the wood in order to be ready for what we need to be in place when everything begins.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u7	Mr. President. I wanted to review here at the council's work on the powerful reaction we've seen since the violent storm that swept through the country on December 10 and 11, and many have been talking about as a rescue storm. The effects of the storm and the crumblings that appeared on the north were the most severe. These were factors that involved the transport systems of electricity, Raiks' distribution system, the communication system, and the backup. The government responded quickly and immediately appointed a group of workers who quickly wrote a high - speed report that included the projects that must already be carried out to ensure many of society's major safety infrastructure. Already a great deal of work has been done on the Landsnets, Raiks, and Emergency Line to cope with the indications presented in the work force. The plan of bringing the company's distribution system on the ground has been accelerated by ten years, with the completion of the 2025 project in place of 2035. Today, there are over 65% of Raiks' distribution systems in the ground. The Adventist storm also showed serious problems with electricity transport systems, preferably in the northern part of the country. This year's work is exerted vigorously in the construction of the Cruces Table 3, from the River Valley Station to the Cruces. However, it is appropriate to point in this large figure that preparatory measures due to the construction of Holasanndian Line 3 have begun, i.e. From the Cruces to the Ranger's Eve in Akureyri. Now that I'm close to my class, I'd like to mention the much work done by the Emergency Line and its employees in connection with strengthening our country's communications network and developing reserves, where the big task is to strengthen the vital infrastructure that our country's communication system really is. All of this has been well - worn, and thanks to it. Good job.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u8	A respectable president. A picture of a woman in the morning of a police officer who bore signs of white nationalist and pictures of the comic hero ◯Punisher, or curator, by permission of a president, during her duties has attracted a sense of urgency today. The design of these markings is not only an innocent reference to a Marvel world cartoon character but a symbol of the police west of the ocean as the punishment of the power of those who take the law and punish themselves and shun the justice system. The message is that the police have the responsibility to punish the citizens for their crime, just as the punisher does. Such attitudes cannot be considered desirable in a community that claims to be at least Support reform policies and the state of justice. Police in the capital area have declared that she repeated to all of her staff that police officers are not to carry any signs that are not recognized in police uniforms and that they are to be followed. There is certainly positive news, but it can be done better if, especially in view of the comments made by the police woman who spoke to the scientist that these were used by many police officers and that she did not believe that they translated anything negative, but she herself carried the signals for years. The policewoman's comment suggests that either the lack of important instruction within the police on racist and violent signals such as Vienna flag and ◯Punishers, or the sign of punishment, now or worse, that Rasism and violent culture are allowed to feed in the police department. Both are unacceptable places. Therefore, I will request that a global and educational committee handle this case at a meeting and consult with the police on Rasism within the police and the ways to keep him from happening.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u9	Mr. President. I'd like to call attention to a story that appeared a few days ago and that has actually taken a little note and had little discussion. The story is that heroin is about to go to bed here. This is quoted by the project manager of Mrs. Ragnhöfki, who has been helped to reduce the number of drug addicts. Although it is most serious if these destructive drugs begin to crowd out in the country, we have blessed and, to the most extent, were free of heroin so far, although the material has been common in many of our neighboring countries. Mr. President. It was also reported less than three years ago from Mrs. Ragnhei that they feared that heroin would follow when a new supply of medicinal products was taken up 2017 and less of the market of prescription items was introduced. Today, the crown - virus epidemic is added. Indeed, it is a serious concern that heroin is starting to get under control here. Most of the most common drugs in the market are, therefore, fixed dose regimens. In heroin intake, dose levels are not considered at all that carry the risk of mortality from overdose. For that reason, I've asked you a question to the highest level. Minister of Justice on the frequency and quantity of heroin kept in this country during the past few years and also on the remainder of this year. This needs to be taken, Mr. President, and in this regard I am pointing out that it is long ago time for the police to be completed, they will be better equipped to deal with the import and sale of this destructive material.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u10	President. We historians often find it noteworthy when history repeats itself, and we see something in front of our mind. That, however, does not always mean that it is enjoyable. I have to say, Mr President, I didn't quite know where the weather was coming from when I checked again from the Iceland Business Council, which has now taken up an article on what it thinks is the right way to get the situation. There are some old acquaintances, so to speak, suggestions on reducing the affairs of the State. in the fields of social molding, united federal institutions, read: management, as we know it, reduce legal protection and rights, read: less monitoring, and how to promote private activity in various ways, e.g. The health system. This is a familiar theme of pre - collapses, since we drove the community to an end, from the newfound freedom - control days. I must say, Mr. President, these aren't the eager guests who are about to pop up now, not in my mind at least. It is morning's light that there is reason to stop now and ask how good it is that the government has promoted the public health and health systems and the public systems and the importance of the public system. This crisis is not the proper way to get the right way out of it. The right way out of the crisis is a way of drinking together and being well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u11	President. I have a status update on human rights protection in Covid's time. We had a meeting at a board of administrations and monitoring today where Dr. Ragnheiður Helgadóttir and Bjarni Már Magnússon, professors at the Department of Justice HR, came and discussed what we've been discussing with the authority of a psychiatrist, a health minister and in the extended context of public rights protection at the time of the virus. Everyone who has set up the committee and discussed the matter agrees that the WHO's surveillance duties are usually very rich, but especially rich in these times, when there is so much human rights, much civil rights, to reach the principal objectives of life and health, and that the General must enter into the matter of legal matters. Then, at the meeting this afternoon, a suggestion was made that the conversation between the minister and the council would be more effective and taken to the Senate Hall. There's one possible application. I would also like to discuss the informed discussion that must take place, which the contemporaneous three - eyed has shown must take place and be necessary, and that critical voices should not be silenced. The doctors are now pointing to certain offenders, including those in the U.S.A. Bryndís Sigurðardóttir, a infectious doctor at the Land Hospital, says that people stay home quickly and also find that the situation at the Land Hospital is better than usual during this time of year. She asks herself why people are not advised to stay home each year when the pressure in the hospital increases because of influenza. She also speaks of the stress, the incomprehensive care system in which a person needs a place in a nursing home. There is something that would be good if we were to get answers from the health minister and financial minister. Why don't money get into it? [[The president calls.]] If the money is put into a nursing home that we know to be there but not in the hospital, it could create even more room for the already good hospital and enable us to take these situations in a much better way than we already do. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But they also need the nurses. So it can also be shown how badly they were treated during the last fight. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u12	I remind you of the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u13	A respectable president. I'm gonna use my time, and I'm gonna talk about plastic, the great invention. On the other hand, we have a problem with plastic abuse. We're using way too much plastic, only in a single-use container. The production of plastics seems to be unsolved, but the annual world production increased by twice as long as the year - old world production in 2000 to2017. Thus, plastic waste is becoming one of our major environmental issues, and it is estimated that by the year 2050, there could be more plastic than ocean fish. This, of course, is a chilling fact. Norwegian environmental Ministers have now proposed a new international agreement to reduce plastic pollution in the ocean and are effective. A report made to the Norwegian Minister highlights such a international agreement aimed at implementing governments, employment and consumers in a joint effort to prevent this massive pollution in our report and in Iceland for plastics, it is found that plastic packaging is about 40 pounds [47 kg] per person per year. That's about 165,000 tons. Only 43% of this plastic yields for recycling. A respectable president. We just have to deal with this. Also, the question is, Where do we recycle the plastic? Most of all plastic, if not nearly all plastic, that goes to recycling in Iceland, has been exported abroad. We have developed a system for further recycling through the Ecosystem Fund, part of which is transport equations and aims that all plastics are to go to export. I wondered, a respectable president, if it's not simple for us here in this hall and the highest. Environment Minister to change this system to encourage the recycling of plastics at home, thus encouraging innovation in the national economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u14	A respectable president. Pure Iceland is what I'm going to talk about today. Yes, we are faced with many challenges today because of the pandemic, but when we become clean by the land of Covid, we have to look at the many opportunities we have in our clean country. Here we have much pure energy and many opportunities to harness green and clean energy for many good works, especially in food production. Our means and opportunities lie in clean energy and clean food. This is exactly what the whole world is looking for today, the most wholesome, cleanest food and as clean energy sources. This is where we live when we grow vegetables, proteins, and so forth in a environmentally friendly way, where we should move ahead and take advantage of these opportunities, think on the road, and be optimistic. There are also opportunities in clean industry, such as data organisms, which are natural in the digital age of which we have increasing industry, and we need lower energy and so forth. Once we get a powerful transboundary cable to the country, there's a lot of opportunities. If we take advantage of these opportunities, we can create a lot of high - paying jobs and good jobs, a variety of employment things that will depend on the welfare community and the quality of life that we want in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u15	A respectable president. Yesterday, 43,243 signatures on a new constitution were received based on a bill of administration. Over the years, there has been a debate among experts in many places that no attention is given to experts. I suppose that just after a crash, when there was a great lack of confidence in experts in every aspect, it was a correct complaint. On the other hand, at least in the second century C.E., experts give off opinions that indicate that they, some of them, do not take the matter very seriously. Their criticism even reveals that they have not considered the matter as well as you would expect, that they have, for example. Could not read report or even not read the window in the current constitution. That's how you feel, e.g. Examples of reviews at the General Assembly, which I'm going to consider better in a talk afterwards, where there are criticisms in the bill to a new constitution, rather harsh criticism, which is correct, exactly as in the current one. I'll get better at that from now on. I would like to try to reach out to people who are opposed to taking up a new constitution. I'll listen to all the experts who take this case seriously. I'll take their criticism seriously. I hope it's north that we take one another seriously wherever we stand. It is uncertain how to arrange the conversation with the public, after changing the current document, but when it comes to criticism, it is all open. I hope experts don't experience themselves excluded from the discussion. At least I won't rule them out from the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u16	A respectable president. Obviously, no one has been overlooked as to the fact that there is a heavy level of ethic in many business users in the community, in dictators, as well as in artists. A restoration has tried to do their best to promote their language here in the Hall of Congress and have offered suggestions on what might be done, such as postponing the increase in alcohol costs proclaimed by the Ministry of finance and by the government, which includes some factors. heavy loads at restaurants that are now calming biofuels. Now I want to look at STEF, who collects expenses from those who run restaurants, shops, nursing rooms, hotels, and so forth, who are in great trouble today. According to my sources, right now this year there is a income drop due to a 70% STEF concert. There's a drop in background music up to 30%. Now in December, at all times the largest distribution to musicians and text writers through STEF, that amount is likely to be much lower. We all know that, and we hear it from musicians and artists that the business is very heavy. That's why we're counting in the Forest on the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance and after the incident at the highest level. Education minister gave particular attention to how you can include, even though there are no major steps, but there are important steps in the big context, helping STEF and the restaurants and musicians, to support the operations of restaurants and just, to keep them going, and at the same time to ensure that there will be no income for musicians and musicians when it comes to the performance of music. It is important to try to do everything possible, to take big, bold steps, and to think about solutions, not creating needless distractions. It is possible by simple action, and especially at this time, to face a decrease in income from musicians but at the same time to make sure that they earn the right income. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] At the same time, we are relieved of these peasants, restaurants, and hotels, who are in deep trouble, as we know, dear President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u17	A respectable president. I just want to draw attention to the fact that we had a very important discussion here earlier in the week on government matters relating to heart - control measures. It's about time, when one pregnancy has passed since the arrival of Covid, that we have this regular conversation. I come up here to recommend that the president introduces us to us as a member of a administrative committee, a broader discussion than just a legitimate question, a conversation with a health minister, a conversation with the government, of how we are going to behave the natural interaction of the council's surveillance role. We have to be able to have tools and tools for that, and I think it would be good for everyone to support us here. Health Ministers, for information and Senate are very important today. Experts have emphasized that extensive consultation is important in this regard. We understand that well, especially at least for at least in front of the government and other government opposition, that governments must have time to act quickly because they have a rich responsibility to act quickly and to defend our people for health care, whereas it comes about as far as we are concerned, the more dignified president, to have a healthy, upset conversation here at the council to give each other support, and we members of the Parliament must do our part, being under government supervision. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u18	The president agrees that it is important that the council be able to discuss these matters, and of course they will be provided with requests. If a president wishes for a specific discussion or such, he will not be. It was planned to extend the special discussion, which, in fact, was the highest. Just because of the importance of the situation, the prime minister took the initiative to pick up, and with the longer amount of the situation mentioned here. There may be a chance to address these issues on the committees of the council, etc. So the president now believes that there are some resources and tools available in those areas, and he just repeats that a president will not be able to take into account the request received from him.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u19	President. There can be a discussion with a health minister, with members of the Parliament just doing so, but there are more ways than having special discussions. Specific discussions are a very limited resource. It's not a fixed point. But they are calling for a fixed point in the existence of the council hall, at a conference meeting, where the Minister of Health is discussed the situation, etc. The three ears, in an article entitled ▪Vogalls of the virus and People's Health, point out that this informed discussion is so important. We must not silence the critics. In other words, informed discussion is a basis for both effective and successful communicative measures and the protection of civil rights and other human rights to be replaced. So I'm calling and supporting this call for a president who has the authority to just put this tempo to speak to a health minister, whether it will only be weekly or a half month ago at the Council of Health Minister and answer our questions. [[The president calls.]] The discussion has been extremely complex, and I wish it would remain that way. But that the health minister will come and we'll put this tempo. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u20	A respectable president. I agree with what has been presented in the matter of the day. Senators and I want to add one more thing, that's the initiative. It has been called, since this situation began, the initiative of the government because of the efforts that have been taken here at the council - we have come to understand the situation by setting matters straight through, the funds, and the like - that it is a good follow-up and that governments take the initiative in providing information on how things are going and how things are going. Discussion of the oral report by prime minister is, in fact, the first step taken, which was followed by a social discussion and a proposal to initiate an investigation into the administrative and surveillance committee of the situation. But we need more of that in all committees, that governments take the initiative to bring information to the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u21	President. I'm just gonna agree and commend the people who raise this important matter and we'll talk about it. I was glad that the president had an extended discussion session the other day, and I am happy and want to commend myself. The head of the administration and monitoring committee, who received me very carefully for an open meeting for a treatment control and authority report. He has then continued his discussion there, this morning. I think there's two meetings finished outside the open meeting, so there's an active conversation going on within the management and monitoring committee, not a study, but a conversation about this. I think it is very important that we use the resources we have to discuss this as often as possible, here are ministers for answers and there are specific discussions, and that we are creative to see if there are any other ways in which we can have a good and healthy conversation about these matters as we have been doing in a management and monitoring committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u22	A respectable president. Thank you very much. President very much for this reaction. But I'd like to remind you, as I mentioned earlier, that it's an entire pregnancy since Covid came up and we've had one discussion. It is commendable that it was long, but there was one discussion at the council. Discussion is what we are calling for in the most kindly. I agree with what's been said, that we should have a profound conversation here, we should keep it healthy, and it's the best interests of all that society can get through this difficult time. But what we do not want to reveal when we look back in history is that we have failed to resist the premise that we have failed to measure up to the requirement of democracy in these times. It was only natural that the council tried to do all they could to be flexible, to make the first response right. But now that this is over, we need to be careful to have a regular, regular information present at the council. It's to the benefit of everyone, both the European Commission and the legislature, this oldest body council in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u23	The president refers to what he said before, but he would like to state that he is not sure that it is quite remembered that this is the first special discussion of the Covid epidemic coming from door to door. At least I think I remember correctly. twice in the months and last for us, if not three times, there have been special discussions and oral reports from counsellors, mainly prime minister, on the economic response to the epidemic. However, there has been a special, organized discussion on this matter. But this has come to pass, and it will be returned to the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u24	A respectable president. Here we vote to ask for a report on a great deal of justice and a great matter of freedom, the availability of motorists in buildings. I believe it is very important to get this information out to see if somewhere a pot is broken in this category, which it certainly is. In that case, I think that such information can help us improve our schedule. I want to thank the Congress for taking this request so well and also how many there were on it because it's completely paradox, which we all agree on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u25	Mr. President. In the United States, we voted against the bill to pay part of the pay for the notice. We thought that there were a number of flaws, and we wanted to put more emphasis on making companies able to maintain employment relations with employees than on strengthening them to resign. So we will not support these changes, but we will sit behind the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-21-12.u26	A respectable president. Pirat's House did not support the government's so - called resignation, so we will not support this addition in the way of resignation. We don't think that it should be easy for companies to give up, no matter what size they are, no matter what their type, so we say no.
