ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u1	The president would like to inform us that there will be only a series of perfunctory sessions for today that, immediately after the discussion on the matter of the Council's activities, the 9th part of the program, and the subsequent discussions about it, the 4th and 5th part of the program, will be taken up. It's a requirement to combine all the votes of the day by a total of 2,◯5. Case 9 after this. It is hoped that they could be votes at about three o'clock. The President expects a good cooperation on this. Otherwise, a series of programs would be followed as far as our day lasts to leave.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u2	There have been letters requesting every time to provide written answers to queries; from the Environment Minister for a requested application. 271, the review of the British Protection Act, of the Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, and the aim of a petition. 327, about the price of animal hypocrisy, from Karl Gauti Hjaltason; from the Ministry of Education and Culture, for the inquiry ofaxes. 173, State Radio fines and benefits, Bergþór Ólason.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u3	A respectable president. I'd like to allow myself to attract the highest attention. For example, yesterday a president gave an answer to three queries dealing with the number of apartments owned by two state banks, Iceland Bank and Landsbank, made during the 2008◯2019 period. The answers explain that no material answer to the inquiry can be given, including with reference to 57th par. Act of Congress. However, in a paper with all the inquiries, with the council of the Parliament's Office, it was stated that financial institutions are not under the topic of financial and economic ministers, and that the President of the Generals has signed his signature that the inquiry met the conditions of 57.g. Act of Congress. I allow myself to go to the top search. A president who uses these inquirys to answer in a material way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u4	Mr. President. Yesterday, I received an answer from the secretary of finance and economics. I had asked about selling the best property of the Bank of America over a period of years. The Ministry's answer says: The information available to the queries is not available in the Ministry or its institutions. Landsbank Corp. and linked enterprises are not government institutions or administration organisations or public services in the understanding of the above regulations, i.e. 3 mg 49. g. Parliamentary law. This is a cheap outback, Mr. President, because part of Iceland's Bank. is 97% in the hands of one man who is a financial minister. I can't live with it once again that you're being pulled over on your stupid ears over and over in this case. [[The president calls.]] So I'm supposed to be here right away, so you don't have to wait the other three years as you have to do in connection with a request for the sale of the final holding of the apartment loans.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u5	The President has heard what he's got. According to members of Congress, but first they want to state that there has been a short period of time when these answers have been received yesterday, and the president wants to say the least until he has been able to examine the matter. Few words have the least responsibility in these areas, including Because one way to interpret these answers is to understand them as criticism of the president for allowing the queries, and of course the president takes it seriously if such understanding is taken into consideration. On the other hand, it is equally clear. Ministers have their answers, of which the President has no bid, and the highest. Ministers have political responsibility for their answers. It's directed to the president. Senators to remember and keep that in mind. However, because of the circumstances I have tore up and the short time I have had to look into matters, the president did not rely on him to say more at this point, but his attention has been drawn to the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u6	President. In spite of a considerable discussion of the loss of civil and civil Constitutions and human rights as a result of disease control measures, there has been little discussion about the deterioration of one of the most important elements in a democratic society, the right of people to meet and protest the government, the rights being given in the Constitution and the various human rights contracts involved in Iceland. It is not good for a government to refrain from the public in the form of a protest. For example, the chairman of an older citizen's Union said: During the days in relation to the worsening standard of life of the group, with the permission of the president: If it weren't for Covid, older citizens would be here in the East. There are also the climate strikes of young people who have suffered every Friday of last year on the East Coast but who have died because of the epidemic. At the same time, the public is now not authorized to attend the General Assembly. President. There must be some development so that these important rights of people can be guaranteed despite intervening world epidemics and other disasters. Now, the one standing here is working on a synonym, which is in harmony with a good convocation of my fellow believer, the Björn Leví of Gunnarsson, whom he proposed in 149 C.E. The interpretation proposal that I present is in that spirit, and it is as follows: ▪ The General concluded to assign the president of the General Assembly to ensure the possibility of the respondents of the signatures and Protestants to appear before the General Assembly and describe their views and demands in a speech when the right to protest is restricted for disease prevention or other reasons. I realize that the proposal could be controversial, but if the U.S.A. can allow Pia Kærsgaard to address the Council, then we must be able to allow the general citizens to do the same.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u7	A respectable president. One of the most widely read morning's reports is undoubtedly the 90 - year - old Margrét Keenan in Covetry, Britain, which became the first British to be vaccinated for Covid -19. At a loss and a positive attitude, Margrét encouraged all who have a chance to do so to have a vaccine. News of the last days truly inspires hope. This week's contract will be signed by Iceland's candidate for vaccine on Pfizer. We're losing the virus. Vaccinations have begun in several countries, and Christmas has just begun. This morning, Skakís Svavarsdóttir introduced health ministers to the hospital during a disease prevention operation. Thus, a meeting ban will continue to occur with ten people, but shops and restaurants will have more room for room, as has been called. At that time, many no doubt rejoiced that swimming pools will open again and that extra space is available for sports practice. There are also stage art and cultural events, but with some limitations. These are careful steps, but they all matter to us. Both of them matter so that people gain more room, but it is also important that we not go too far, that we do not take too much steps. We have learned from experience that it can be of enormous importance. Because Christmas was near, and many no doubt hoped that more than ten would come together at home for the holidays, it is good to remember the good Icelandic saying that it is often good to walk slowly through the door of joy. We're going to hit the finish line in this long race, but it didn't include anyone in it. But let us apply the hope that we gain with these good news all, using it to get the last lot of it, for that is the best way for us to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u8	Mr. President. It is now time for the government to extend the duration of the traveller, and that is good. I thought this idea of the government in its own time was both practical and creative, but it could have been more powerful. We would have liked to see larger steps on these subjects now and not just going to the extension of the period that can be used but to raise the amount to 15,000 bucks. We want the range of values to be improved so that it can be used not just in the field of travel but as a source of culture. We want this to help all 12 - year - olds to live up to their assignment as a family. This would be an excellent way to support the families of the country. This, of course, will help us to see the actual injection, the real space for individuals and families to take a day's rest and, of course, will lead to an actual injection to companies and operators in the areas that have been seriously affected, a crisis that is proving to be both heavier and longer than we anticipated at the beginning of an epidemic. Some 25,000 people are out of work or on nonemployment. These figures can probably grow even higher by the end of the year. Travel services, art and cultural sectors have been affected by more than most of the articles so that new travel, art and culture to this level will have economic benefits. There's some beautiful thought and beautiful ideologies in this way to face a shock to do this now in leading to Christmas. We want the gift to be meaningful until the fall of 2021. By doing so, we encourage these articles and offer people the opportunity to enjoy a happy day at the end of this year. This will be important for tourism and cultural and artistic work in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u9	A respectable president. Once again, I think of the words, systems, systems when I plan to discuss the mental health of young children and teenagers. There's always some system they have to fit in with, and they have to fight a system to get out of their cases. I should think of people, people, people, children, children, children, so it's about people themselves, about the children. How are they rendered as fully as possible? I think we can give children the best mental - health benefits by giving parents more influence, giving them more choice, and having the right to solve problems with their parents. Of course, they need specialists, different experts, but no one knows what is suitable for a child better than their parents. But because of personal problems, this is important. I think that we need to give independent professionals more important, thus opening up innovation and telecommunications to a much greater extent than we have done today, opening ways for this, and making it so that costs are not limited to various conditions and agreements and such. It does not have to enter a preconceived convention. Rather, we need to give the professional a little freedom to shape a ministry that is convenient for most people and to accept the challenges we face today. I think we're going to do it best with the child's financial support.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u10	President. I'd like to briefly discuss the use of power and abuse of it. At the General Assembly, power is divided in that certain classes decide to take greater authority. This may not have to be done, nor is it necessary for Congress to produce results, but it can be done if a greater proportion of members of the Parliament agree to take over the power in that way. When I give my authority to the council, I mean that more of the council decides to assemble themselves to make more and less decisions on all matters. If the matter cannot be passed through this majority group, it will not be able to pass through the council, even if everyone outside the majority of the group together with any part of it would actually make more of an individuality. Consider the new constitution. It has the support of much of the country's population by surveys and national standards. However, land dwellers are scattered between political parties, each with a different view of the new constitution. Although a greater proportion of the two member states are supporting the new constitution according to a survey for the last election, this opinion did not succeed in those categories following the election. Others were more important in their assessment. But praise belongs to those who earn it. Now there's negotiations before the Senate, and last night, there was only a conference until 8:00. It was the decision of a president to cooperate with members of the council. The majority could have used themselves for an extended meeting, as is often done at the time, but did not. This is unusual and should call attention to it. It makes negotiations more business and better. When the majority take power, they are also responsible for proper handling. I think it's a perennial decision for president not to extend a meeting and follow a standard schedule during negotiations. Criticism, you see, is useless if you do not commend for what is well done. Therefore, I would like to commend the president for his decision and further encourage him in the effort to achieve contracts on objective grounds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u11	President. We are living in a time when a common understanding is on the decline. Politicians, wherever they are, do not shrink back from upholding their truth, their facts. Up and down, east and west, we no longer agree on what it is. In such times, powerful media are more important than ever before. It has been demonstrated in the pandemic that has now shaken the inhabited earth for a number of years as to how powerful a Kingdom medium is an essential democratic debate in Iceland, information and the presentation of what we all need to know. VOLV status, such as the situation of other media, is difficult. We have a special case to support the private media. RUSB has, like other media, had to live with a decrease in income because of the decrease in advertising. On top of that, RUSB has also had to live with the addition of income on a radio charge, a lower number of radio fees than have. These are sums of money that really matter to the Management Board, including all of us. To a large extent, the government radio is our culture and our information flow we need. I believe, Mr. President, that there is a total reduction in radio costs to be made. In order for us to continue our business, RUV needs the radio fee paid completely.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u12	A respectable president. It is often necessary, but now it is necessary to break the worst - set poverty trap in our rich society and stop classing sick people and older cities into thirds or fourths of society, even a pack of trash. The need to live in disability should not be a sign of poverty, let alone poverty. That government by government puts sick people and older citizens in a poverty-crabble party sucks. To never make ends meet, to be always fighting for every piece of food, and even in line, in the wind, in the freezing debt. It sucks. Never knowing how to survive is destructive to the people and especially to their children. Christmas lies ahead, and many struggle with anxiety and distress just because they do not have salt in it. That people can't do anything for their children and that they can't give themselves anything, and much less buy one single Christmas gift and not even have food for Christmas dinner at Christmas table sucks. In Covid-19, which has been living for almost a year with associated health problems and difficulties, there is at least a little light in the dark. Today, we deal with the 361 session at a rate of 50,000. "employment, tax and inadequacy, for disability." There is tremendous agreement here at the council to establish this matter as soon as possible so that the individuals will be paid out on December 18. I say if this works, it's a very good first step we put the people in first place.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u13	A respectable president. I, who has 1st manifester, joined with other members of the Independence Party, gave a bill for a work permit for the Southern Line 2. The objective of the bill is to validate authority for Landsnet in the construction of Southnes Line 2 in the country of Hafnarfjörður, Voga, Smokeynestown, and Grindavík. This is a 33.9 km line with a target cost of 2.3 billion. For a long time, the Landsnet has planned the building of Southnesia II. The process is of national importance and is aimed at increasing the safety and transport capacity of electricity for Southernis from the capital area. According to a report of energy forecasting, electricity projections 2018-52050, and the development of rural society in the South, the demand for electricity will increase more rapidly there than in other parts of the country, including the U.S.A. Because of increasing activity at the Cheflavour airport as life is changing to normal and increasing population growth occurs. Its effect when Southnesline 1 suddenly decommissions business is almost inevitable in Southnes, with a negative effect on home and professional life. We're not going to be here any more. Southnes Line 2 is a procedure that is important based on national interests, so there is no need to reenact the urgent need to act on it. An unacceptable delay has already occurred in the language that has gone well in the system for years. It is unacceptable that citizens of the South will have to suffer the severe failures that have been permitted for this operation. Therefore, in order to eliminate uncertainty, it is necessary to act on and legally establish a warrant for the implementation without the presence of the rural communities. A respectable president. It is my hope that the development of this bill will result in the loss of the local community by approval of the project. It is called for by security in Southnes electrical transport, which is called for a variety of occupational life on the Southnes. For this call must be answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u14	Mr. President. Covid-19 disease may not be the last pandemic mankind will ever have to deal with. How does that fact relate to an expensive journey? Today, some 8 billion people live on earth, with about half the number when I was born over 40 years ago. After some 30 years, the inhabitants of the earth are reaching their goal of becoming 10 billion. At the same time, the world's population has seen an increase in meat production by associating with animals. It is now believed that the coral virus from bats is attributable to flounders and to humans. The SARS epidemic, the swine influenza, the bird flu, and other epidemics are also attributed to close association between humans and animals. Because of the appalling circumstances in so - called food markets in the large world, they can act as a growth factor for mutant viruses and as a jumping virus between species. In that light, how can we prevent or keep dangerous diseases in the future? minimal. Hence, much more attention should be given to the conditions and conditions in which animals live, the fruitless meat production. Mr. President. We will control the bottom line of the crown virus with science. But we will again be dealing with relatives if we do not change our dealings with animals in terms of their equipment and meat production. Animal travel is closely related to man's well - being. That is very clear in the present situation. Take good care of animals, and we'll do well with men.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u15	Mr. President. Today, 40 years ago, John Lennon's book of life fell back off of a memory bagman west of New York, who shot him to death outside his home, and it is remembered today. Lennon and his associates changed the cosmology of hundreds of millions of young people, and the world did not become the same after they came together and accomplished their achievements and used their own goods, Mr. President, proben, the greatest achievement that this group did before they became 30 years of age. When the Beatles stopped, none of them were in their early 30's. After the Beatles stopped, Lennon took the lead in promoting peace movement. He left home and went on a three - year - old drinker, returned to care for the pie and the raising of children, but just before he died, he had released a record. Their first song is now so remarkable that it is about a new beginning. He had thought that the process would start again with this album that he released in his early 40's, but unfortunately it did not. Iceland and I are under obligation to preserve Lennon's culture and memory because his survivors chose Iceland as one of three places for a memorial site on John Lennon, as well as in Reykjavík, are located in New York and Tokyo. To that end, Iceland's life story is involved, and we should honor it. Let us also honor what he said himself, freely, Mr President: Life is what happens when we are busy with other plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u16	V.E.G. President. I ran into a discussion in the late hour, with president's permission, you can never give up on anyone. This headline aroused my interest, and we in the Middle Ages have repeatedly noted the importance of creating jobs to enable people to do their part. That's why I started reading this coverage. We have wanted to give people the opportunity to be active members of the community, and that was exactly what this discussion was about. In other words, the coverage is even. the important and good cooperation between the public and the central sector of a victim. The path is clear and lies ahead. It is said that the greatest lesson was to look at people's strengths instead of their weaknesses. At the same time, we are told that lack of funds is the main obstacle. A new approach to mental illness for young people will result in results, social and financial benefits, not to mention how much this new approach will mean. Therefore, I would like to encourage all who are concerned with making sure that this new approach is most useful. Some of us senators and I, however, disagree about goals, but I see a way that could be of service, and our objective is clear, and we're supposed to go there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u17	Mr. President. During this time, members of the Parliament have had difficulty discussing the activities of both the Bits, the pangolines, and the bats. However, the following days will be marked by the fact that we have important issues related to financial payment, annual conventions, tax changes, and other matters that follow each year. However, there are also several additional issues that are special, and particularly due to the conditions in the economy and the economy of the Covid pandemic. Therefore, it must be very prominent during the council that we are handling important issues related to the financial affairs of the State and that it is important that they run out at the right time. However, more matters will be considered, and the presidents of Congress are now discussing how best to handle them, including the above. based on what issues in 1st. It would be desirable to come to the committee before Christmas so that the deadline can be held for Christmas and New Year's Eve. Then there are major issues that will be considered on the schedule. Later this afternoon, which is helpful in getting to the fore, so that the time that passes before the council meets again from mid - January is most useful. Of course, the discussions of the council groups have meant much conflict, but I allow me to say that there is reason to be optimistic about our getting together. Even if we do not agree on the contents of the matter, we can agree on the payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u18	V.E.G. President. It was in the news at lunchtime that a minister had received a signature list from gray-collars, where over 54% of the kennel officials signed that they were in favor of grizzzly fishing, or were to be checked. These 54% of the licensed authorities include 80% of those who have been catching their fish in the past few years, since many permits have not been new. There have been 64 reviews of the subject, each of which seems to be more than a few of the things in which grey - free fishing is introduced. It is fresh in memory of the last season when the distribution of the Archipelago caught up in a short period of time and was concerned that this situation could come back if nothing has been done about it. I've called for this matter to be treated materially at the council. There's a bill about it inside the government. It seems odd to me that the government of broad appeals cannot agree that such cases will be granted and discussed at the council. This case has another concern about local fishing of vertebrates, the sea oedemas, urchins, and, if this issue cannot continue, they will not be treated either. I call the government to agree that this matter will arrive at the council's program sooner than later, since the next level is due for a grizzzly hunt. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u19	A respectable president. During the autumn months, a number of sheep in the province of Skavegar were confirmed to be diseased. We all feel sorry for the farmers who suffer such tragedies, the emotional and financial breakdowns. Since all the money on which aglow has hit has been cut down, it can be said that their feet are cut off from the life - style of farmers who find themselves in such horrors. The emotional damage of farm farmers will soon be improved, but the State needs to step in and try to meet those farmers who have lost all their money because of their humping. It is estimated that the overall improvement due to this loss will be about 200 billion. K. When this serious situation arose in Skavet, I introduced agri-environmental minister for answers on whether or not the policy for research on prophylaxis measures in sheep in this country had been developed. It was a pleasure to hear that work was started at the Ministry in collaboration with the Food Institute in evaluating and reviewing the rules and administration. I am glad that studies on the prophylaxis of sis are part of the factors to be considered and in particular will consider whether there are other measures involving less intervention, disorder and costs than the measures taken in the last decade when ignotine disease has been identified. Thereafter, monitoring of the guards must be reinforced and extended. It has been shown that this son of a bitch can lie secretly for decades. A respectable president. The situation presented here calls for an opinion as to whether it is necessary to ensure that there are structures that enable the competent authorities to comply with the rules of waste disposal as such. The management plan is required for the treatment of serious domestic conditions. We never know where or when they'll call.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u20	A respectable president. I bring here an opinion on the bill for changing laws on social assistance and social security law, or on reimbursement and subsidies. The committee has discussed the matter and received two comments. The review of Iceland's Microcollar Association encourages the quick payment of the case. The bill offers suggestions for changes aimed at paying special replacements due to extensions for microenergy and rehabilitation professionals. In addition to an up-to-date increase of 3.6% in the bill to budget the year 2021, income markets due to the payment of a special pension plan are updated. The primary reference level for those paid for household chores is 333,258 k. every month and those who do not get paid household chores at 265,044. per month. The budget has previously been updated by a Minister's Regulation, but more clearly, it seems to have an updated amount of money in the law. Then the bill suggests that the impact of income insurance will be reduced by microenergy and rehabilitation pensioners when calculating specific replacements so that the earnings of pensioners should count 95% of the total income insurance. This bill is about two things, and the other is a special one. The bill presents specific tax-free reimbursement to the microenergy and rehabilitation donors who have in 2020 had the right to pay the disability money or the rehabilitation of pension. The fee should be 50,000 bucks. to those who have been paid compensations all months of the year and in proportion to those who have paid their dues. The committee emphasizes that special payment will be paid out on time before Christmas. The committee feels that it is urgent to ensure a rapid progress on the situation and suggests that the bill will remain the same. It was the determination of all members of the committee that we would take care of it quickly and effectively, so it is now happening. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an emissary officer of the Committee, is in agreement with this opinion and is expected to write Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðmundur Kolbrönnadóttir Ingi Kristinsson, Rafney Eðney Magnúsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Sara Elísa Thordur's Þórðardóttir, and Vilhjálmur of the Árnason. It was fun working on this case, it soon worked out, and everyone agreed. Perhaps more has been said about this one-off at 50,000 bucks. but as early as the next year, which is very enjoyable, there is also an increase in the improvement in the income-priority of the group, while the overall improvement in social security and social assistance to the most efficient pensioners in the coming year will be about 1700. an increase of 6.1% in the current month. There is tremendous progress, and I feel that it matters, as well as the one payment will probably come in handy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u21	A respectable president. It's not often that it happens, but now you come up in a pit with joy and satisfaction that this matter is being resolved from the council today. 50,000 bucks. ...employment, taxation and inadequacy, and especially that we're trying to make sure that it gets into the hands of the most needed by Christmas. Also, we must not forget that in this bill there is something that has not been seen for long in the microenergy donor bill, as is said here, by permission of a president: Thus, the full increase in social security benefits to the highest income of the pensioners would be about 19,700. at month or at year 2020/2021 6.1% 6.1% corresponds to the exact amount of pay development, and this is finally being inserted and should be attributed to a better human life. More often, we need to show the tactics we have shown in this regard. Everyone puts it in harmony and harmony, and we need to do it more often. We need to put our hands together and make sure that no one has to live in poverty or very poor in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u22	Mr. President. I will not extend this discussion more than is needed but will only welcome the solidarity that arose. the welfare committee to speed up the treatment of this matter through the council so that the monopolitan pay listed on the bill before Christmas can be taken care of. This is a great deal of justice and a vital matter. I'm proud of what I did. A welfare committee can, completely united, in one voice, work together on this matter in a rapid and effective manner. The committee received two reviews that were completely consistent in the matter's efforts to speed up the case, so we responded with a call. It's a pleasure.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u23	A respectable president. I'm not gonna extend this discussion, but I'd like to join my partners in what? A welfare committee, and especially a back-up. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson. It's a pleasure to come here after him and be happy to do this. He is a great fighter for ideal micro-vital workers and has often been in that chair, and now he could be happy for us, and we all agree very much with the situation. Like most languages, there has been good peace and a good spirit in this regard. This is a single payment of 50,000, which has been reported to be very important for Christmas so that it will benefit most of those who need it and then a lasting increase of 19,700 bucks. every month, it is extremely important to achieve that, an increase of 6.1%. We're happy about that, and hopefully we'll have another Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u24	V.E.G. President. I want to be like everybody else. Congress officials come up here and are happy that this case has come for release. It is with such speed that observing it is admirable. The bill we're discussing here is about two main points, there's a process of living, and then there's a special remuneration that we're a little glad we got a good job. As mentioned in the preceding committee, what may matter most is that we have resolved that the pay will be paid out on time before Christmas. Today, Christmas is not long before Christmas, and it is important for people to get the money they are discussing in time and to enjoy the Christmas season as best they can.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u25	A respectable president. Commending the welfare committee for this matter and payment may be in the water, but there is good reason to do so. Here, the entire committee stands together as a group. A step is being taken to improve the provision of those with the lowest amount of currency, and this is very necessary and good. So that makes the system perfect? No, indeed. We need to keep on taking these steps, but this step is important and will surely make a difference for many who will enjoy it. That's a pleasure, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u26	Mr. President. I would like to agree with the words that have occurred before. Councilmen. As we have seen, this matter has been settled in peace and harmony within the years. The welfare committee, which is a positive step forward. What a joy it is when parapolitic reconciliation has become a matter of the most important importance and taking steps to get people out of a poverty trap toward righteousness! Finally, I just want to remind you that those who live in poverty and disability often present babies who promote disability and those who have the lowest forwards. I welcome this matter, and I look forward to seeing it go to a vote hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u27	Mr. President. I'm in charge of a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision of the joint EEA committee that has to deal with mental rights. In order to frame the committee opinion, I'm going to make some comments on the grounds of the Parliament's decree to enter the EU Convention. This is made up of a brief report by the Parliament's resolution. I'm gonna read some lines, with the permission of the highest. President: The purpose of the directive is to agree the EU legislation on these topics [...] to facilitate access of blind, visually impaired or to tackle other printing inhibitions to appoint tasks [...] This directive aims to further syncance with existing Community legislation on the authorship and related rights within the framework of the inner market, by implementing rules for the use of specific types and other substances without the approval of their competent authorities in favor of blind, visual acuity or those with other printing restrictions. This is the purpose of this synopsis proposal. The commission says, with permission of the president: The journal has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Gautur Sturluson by the Ministry of State and the Tryggvadóttir of Education and Culture, by the Department of State. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 165/2020 from October 23 on the change in XVII. Annex to the EEA Convention on May 2, 1992, and enter the Convention Directive of the European Parliament and Council of 2017/1564 of September 13, 2017 for the specific authorised use of specific tasks and materials protected by authors' rights and rights in behalf of blind, visual acuity or those who deal with other printing restrictions and for the adjustment of Directive 2001/29/EC on the coordination of certain aspects of the author's license and related rights in the information community. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter was absent from the case. Signed on December 4th, sir. Councilmen Sigríður Á. Andersen, Chairman of Ari Trausti Bryndís, Brytísdótttir Haraldsdóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Logi Trausti Friðbertsson, Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brryjornóttir, and Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gönsdotir. Mr. President. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u28	Mr. President. As shown in the case of this article, there is much work to be done if we reduce the use and culture of palm oil. This issue involves climate protection, animal protection, and the protection of less fortunate ones. It is also about opportunities for greater agriculture and greater opportunities for Icelanders to be independent in their own energy production. However, this is not about the need to reduce pollution from fossil fuels. This is made clear in the article and in the accompanying accounts. The recent documentary for Sir Davids Attenboroughs, life on earth, or A Life on Our Planet, as it is called in the original languages, can also be identified. We hope to see the first step toward helping Iceland to reduce the use of palm oil in the world and thus becoming one of the best nations. Otherwise, Mr. President, I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity and give my thanks to the Committee and its support of the case. Finally, I encourage a body of Congress to support the matter and to vote for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u29	Mr. President. We're here to vote for something very important. It is important that all of the members of the Parliament be brought together on this matter. Here is an important support for vulnerable groups, and this is one step toward improving the ideal micro-organism that has the lowest improvement. This is a great celebration, Mr. President, and I encourage senators to join us in the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u30	Mr. President. I'm here offering a review of a change proposal to a bill to correct the changing of unemployment insurance laws, income-related benefits. The Commission has discussed this matter and proposed temporary changes in response to the labour market for pandemic crown virus. The bill suggests that temporary XVIII regulations in unemployment insurance laws will be allowed to pay those who are guaranteed within the unemployment insurance system for up to six months are covered. These are proposed changes to 9,◯11. mg temporary XVI regulations in accordance with the changes made in 1 mg. the arrangement for stipulation to December 31, 2020. In view of an extension of the government's actions to create resistance to the effects of the pandemic crown virus, Iceland's demand, presented on November 20, 2000, adds a greater proportion, in consultation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, to make a change in the bill so that it does not cover solely the guarantee of paying on the unemployment insurance system for up to six months. In accordance with government action, the greater part contributes to the date of 31st December 2020 at 2 mg. provision for temporary XV in the unemployment insurance law will be met: on December 31st, 2021. This has an extension of 6% non-compliance on the basis of each child's basic non-employment. This is important, and it is a change approved by the Senate on spring days and is now extended. In accordance with government action, the majority also contributes to the date of 31 December 2020 in 1 mg. May 31 May 2021. Adds a larger change in unemployment improvements with a decrease in employment rate and a change in dates to 9, 10, and 11 mg. the set of instructions in accordance with the above or by 31 May 2021. This suggests that the extra item will suggest a change to the date 1 January 2021 at 3mgr. provision for temporary III in the law on the remuneration budget, and instead of the date on June 1, 2021. This is also consistent with the fact that on January 1 alone the law fell out of force. This is actually extending the so-called part-change process until the end of May, and it's important. Much has been called on in the community to say that there is an increase in confidence. At the expense assessment, or the change, the Committee received a memo from the Department of Social Affairs, which says that the maximum increase may be up to 6.7 billion next year. With the reference to the above, the more part suggests that the situation will be agreed with the changes I have made here and are set up in the Committee. Under the name of the Lord. Councilmen: Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Árnadóttir Kolbrönnadóttir, Ömundur Friðriksson, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, in advance, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdótir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u31	Mr. President. I hereby recommend my share of welfare committees to this bill to correct the changing of unemployment insurance laws in terms of income-related benefits. In Iceland, unemployment rates are acquired rights to pay people. The design is based on a baseline North American policy and was established here by labor movements and political groups who have fought for the public's rights. Basic non-employment is 289,510 k. per month. In addition, each child is less than 18 years of age paid 11,580 k, or 4% of basic non-employees. The law on changing the law to meet the economic effects of pandemic crown virus allowed for each child to be raised by 6% to December 31, 2020, or 17,371K. Tax-related unemployment improvements are paid up to three months at the start of each rest period of 30 months. The chapter - related period has been extended temporarily to six months since September 1, 2020, and all who accepted basic non-employment benefits for that period will receive only three months of income - related activities. Mr. President. It is incomprehensible to think that more items will be extended just three months before those who lost their job in March, as the bill expects but will leave some 10,000 people out of work in February or earlier. The smaller portion suggests that all persons who were unemployed on September 1, 2020 will receive six months of income - related improvements end up inexorable and illogically conflicting with the period length. The maximum financial level of income-related unemployment improvements is 456,404k. per month. Thus, improvement in the level is of little importance to the overall picture in the event of an age of unemployment. By tax, we have 242,700 dollars basic non-employment. and income related improvements of 348,500 k. These figures show that the financial harm of a person who loses his job is significant and greatly affects the business of his family and family. The part-authority process enables employers to maintain recruitment relations with their employees. The smaller parts also consider it necessary to change part-time criteria so that companies can maintain recruitment relations with more staff than is currently possible. We need to get out of the valley of tears we are in. So the smaller part suggests that the criteria will be reduced back to up to 25% work ratio, which may be important for employers to maintain recruitment relations, e.g. Instead of the two employees, the arrangement is granted to remain unchanged. The smaller part complies with the suggestion of a larger portion that contributes towards a partial improvement to June 1, 2021, because obviously it takes time to rebuild operations after a deep economic crisis, but suggests that it is best to reduce the limit to 25%. Clearly, a person who needs to earn a living on unemployment needs to reduce his consumption because of reduced income. Thus, much and long - term unemployment also has negative effects on economic demand, which again reduces jobs. The crisis following a pandemic crown virus is more intense on those who lose their jobs and their families. Basic non-employment is much lower than minimum wage insurance according to the biographies agreements. In order to distribute the stocks, the smaller portion is extremely important that basic non-employment be increased to 95% of minimum income insurance and the right to unemployment insurance is extended by 12 months. During the following weeks and months, hundreds of people lose their right to unemployment benefits and are able only to consult rural unions for support, rural society that is already in a very difficult position because of the Coron viral epidemic. This group needs to search the local community for support, which is half as low as basic non-employment. If nothing is done, the number of people in Iceland who live in poor health is growing. Increase with each child, as agreed to the United States proposal, with a temporary extension is a positive change. However, the change must be permanent and the smaller portion needed to make a donation of each child permanently. Mr. President. Job's loss is more serious in crisis than in good health. A lot of people lose their jobs at the same time. The number of jobs is reduced, the harder it is to find other jobs, and the chances of long - term lack of work increase. The adverse social and health effects of long - term inefficiency are well - known, and they are expensive for families and for society all. In time, the most important number of jobs will be to increase, but it takes time. That's where we have to stick together. The cost of employment, however, can be raised as soon as it is socially practical. It is important for jobseekers to find a job in which their education and experience are most useful, otherwise they may lose valuable education and expertise. It has been claimed, including by the activities involved, that if unemployment benefits increase the number of job jobs, and so on. Secretary of finance, saying that it is important to keep unemployment low. When thousands of new jobs are reduced to a pandemic, causing serious problems in the largest nation's industry, such claims are clearly wrong. No new jobs will be made by creating distress in the homes of those who have lost their jobs under these circumstances. In addition, research shows that unemployment is no more in countries where there is strong unemployment insurance. Much of the money the state uses to raise unemployment insurance comes directly back in taxes and increases in economic activities. Mr. President. The smaller section supports in another way the suggestions for more part than considers it necessary to go further. We need to take bigger steps. With the reference to what has been presented, the smaller item suggests that the whole case will be agreed with but with the changes presented in a committee study with the changes in the smaller section.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u32	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for a bill to legalize the Highland Park. The central population is unique in nature and contains a large number of natural and cultural and continuous areas that are already protected. About half of the area where the bill assumes that peace-informed prices as a Highland National Park will already be declared. These include Lake Bay, Mountain Park, Patriot, Hofjörg, and Belarus, the Mountains of Kerns, the Heavens of Whos, and the Swamps of God. All of this is the sexiest region, and they will not allow anyone to go home unmoved. In most other parts of the world, natural and landscapes have the same variety as those of one of the largest uninhabited areas in Europe. In the middle of the last century, ideas of an organization of national parks are restored. Many conservationists have been fighting for this task for a long time and have served as a means of vision and effort. Here at the General Assembly, Hjörleifur Guttormsson proposed a synopsis at the end of the last century, which included several national parks in the highlands. The members of the VG have proposed a conquistador to the establishment of Hoftyk Nation, and in the last five years, Congress laws have been proposed for one large national park in the central highlands. The members of the VG have twice made a plagion proposal for a central national park between 2015 and 2017. Then, in 2015, a representative of the United States proposed such a proposal. However, for the first time, this project is proposed in the Council in accordance with the government covenant of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir. A poll conducted by the National Social Science Institute of the University of Iceland presented at the end of 2018, showed that 63% of the public was a member of a national park in the central highlands of Iceland. More than 75% of its members were involved in the establishment of a park in the central highlands in order to protect many of the areas that are not protected today. More than 70% said that he would protect the central highlands as a single group and 68% would increase his understanding of the value of the central highlands. V.E.G. President. This bill is looking forward to a long future, creating an opportunity for the present and future generations, which will not come to pass by the bill. These opportunities turn toward international tourism, and especially in the highland regions. There is also an increase in public activity in the country, including the U.S.A. People with university education who are fortified and who lead to other secondary jobs. Countless of these are the opportunities for other employment practices such as agriculture. Of course, the most precious opportunities are involved in creating a highland park to protect one of the greatest natural value the nation has; the central highlands and its resources. I think it's safe to say that the whole central highland is, in fact, the largest and most remarkable structure in this country - a pearl of our share, no matter where we live in the country. A bill of what I recommend here is about us as a nation. For this reason, from the beginning, much emphasis was placed on preparing the bill for a broad discussion and a large conversation with the government at home in the province, the U.S.A., the public, and particularly the representatives of all the classes working at the General Assembly. I have tried hard to listen carefully to all the viewpoints that have been presented and to reach as far as the greatest peace and understanding of the matter goes. When it comes to such big interests, it is understandable that viewpoints vary, and it is a challenge for us to listen to one another's viewpoint and to appreciate how we can reach the best conclusion and in the greatest agreement. Early in 2016, nearly 30 member organisations in the field of nature protection and outdoors, along with the members of the tourism service, published their declaration of the establishment of a national park in the central highlands. Then, in July 2016, the establishment of national parks in the region of the Environment and Resource Ministry began with an order by the current Environment and Resource Minister Sigrún Magnúsdóttir. Thus, there has been preparation for several years in the administrative system. The above committee should be analysed and the area within the central area should be charted in a complete way. The committee represented local members, stakeholders, members of society, and governments. The report of the committee included has been identified as natural and cultural and key interests and use within the central highlands. The objective was to investigate the basis for establishing a national park in the central area, either by enlargement of the Lakejörbjörður Park or by other means. The committee returned its report to the minister in November 2017, where the projections on different forms of national parks in the central highlands were developed. In the Treaty of the Foreign Government, Independence Party, and Left Forces, the establishment of a national park in the middle of policy, for the first time in the government covenant, on November 30, 2017. Since its beginning, therefore, it has preconceived a big, important matter that required the best of action. In accordance with the above regulations of the Treaty, a transnational committee of members from all political parties was appointed at the General Assembly, as well as a representative of the environment and resource departments, the Ministry of Presidency, and the local council for the establishment of a national park on the central highland in April 2018. In their work, the committee had a comprehensive consultation with the 24 members of the community who have organizational responsibilities in the highlands or who have the highest rights, as well as a number of economisaries who are concerned. The committee held a special Web site on the board of directors' Web site and published work as closely as possible in government consultations and finally produced a more elaborate report a year ago. Information on the work of the Committee and the data it has based on its work is available on the board of directors' website. So all the people had access to the case through the Internet. The final report defined the limit of the national park, as defined by the international definition of the IUCN, in terms of national services centres and main slides into the national park. At that time, they were given the opportunity that a park's establishment would have for the development and economy. Suggested suggestions were also made for key priorities in management and protection programmes and employment policies for the park and provided key emphasis for the production of the Law for the Highland National Park, including the U.S.A. was taken into consideration by the park's administrative organization. After the Senate Committee's work and following the release of a bill in a court of agreement with the government last December, I, along with the Ministry's staff, have met a number of covering and consultations across the country and have a comprehensive consultation with rural society and various stakeholders in which the main views were considered and ways of compliating them. The Council produced better suggestions and, including, the following: it's an idea of community planning. I believe that the wide consultation I had has given a bill that is much more compatible with key parties, especially the rural communities. A respectable president. The aim of a highland national peace description is primarily to protect the specific nature and history of the region, allowing the public to get to know and enjoy the central highlands as well as to ensure the best access to it. According to Article 3, the bill's goal is set out in ten teams. This includes: to promote social and economic development, especially in the vicinity of the park, and at the same time throughout the whole country. It encourages sustainable innovations of the park's quality but also stipulation that it will be a topic of discussion and decision making on land use and development. The park shall contribute to research and education, and within it a damaged ecosystem should be recovered. One goal is to preserve national parks and ensure that their worth is maintained in a natural and cultural way. Finally, it is stated that the Highland National Park should promote cooperation and cooperation with societies and volunteers on the affairs of the region. You see, we are so fortunate, a respected president, that we all care about the high country we share. There is great wealth in itself. The bill suggests that the minister of peace informs certain areas on the central highlands as a national park. The formal peace description of the Highland National Park would be carried out by the sentence of a regulations as instructed by the bill. Takes the park to national lands, a land in the commonity of all of us, which lies in the middle of the country's highlands. Current activation areas in the central area are defined as peripheral areas and are suggested that they not be declared as part of a national park. Highland National Park is expected to become an independent agency under the administration of Ministers. The law on the Waterland Park would be replaced, and the Waterland Nation would be part of a Highland National Park, as well as the areas of the central highlands that have already been emancipated on the basis of nature protection laws and hear under the management of the EEA. As mentioned above, about half of the territory in question is at peace-installed. The bill assumes that the government structure of the Highland National Park will be distributed. This means that the arrival of rural partners, partnerships and stakeholders is guaranteed in national policy policies. In the national administration of the park, the ideal representatives of a greater community, one from the national park's domain, or a total of six of the 11 agents, and four representatives of community organizations and stakeholders. A representative of each management area shall be appointed jointly by the local administrations of the members of the affected area from their representative of the district council. The minister will appoint one representative without a form of appointment to be chairman of the board. In the district councils arranged for each of the six park's management areas, it is also assumed that the same measures will be taken, i.e. that the members of a rural society represent a greater part of five members of the nine members of the district council. In addition, representatives of the outdoor parties, environmental organisations, the service rights ocer from the sector designated by Iceland's Farmers Associations, as well as one representative appointed by tourism agencies in the management area and the Group of travel services. Presidents and vice presidents of each district would be elected from among the local representatives. The distribution of authority described here should ensure that, as far as the majority of the local, social, and main stakeholders are concerned, policies in the national park should be established. The setting has a model in the present government structure of a Lake Earth park, which marked a turning point in nature protection 12 years ago, when it was established and the arrangement has been successful. The national park's main governance and protection program would be proposed by each district council for its territory. They would include them. set the protection level of individual areas and landscape barriers, so-called reservations, which take into account national protection targets and other land uses in the area according to international national parks and non-authorized areas. This should be done in a schedule including Talk about monitoring, instruction, security, construction, policy management of guest room location and services within national parks, transportation, infrastructure, traffic rights, and public access. Thus, the work of the district councils is crucial to the fact that those who happen to know are expected to put up with a management and protective plan in their territory, the level of protection it will submit, the manner in which it should use and traffic it. Thus, a management and protection programme is also a new programme in its nature. Unlike the current legislation on the Waterland Park, it is not expected in the bill that individual rural governments are bound by the national management and protection programme in developing their plans for areas of highland park. It shall be reserved for the administration of a management and protection programme by means of a conversation and cooperation at the Council of the District and the Management Board of the Highland National Park, thus participating in the shape of the programme. A respectable president. I'd like to draw these points out in particular where the misunderstanding has been presented in this important issue that, in the establishment of the Highland National Park, some way the organizational responsibility is taken from the rural communities. This which I've described above is even one of the factors changed from the previous motion to the bill after a useful conversation with a local representative who handles organizational responsibility in the central highlands. Thus, the demands on organizational responsibilities have been met. I'd also like to state that with the bill the district council is entrusted with a more extensive role in the Highland Park than with the equivalent regional standing in the Lakesland park, the bill will be under law. For example, the district Council plays a role in the provision of national and national applications and the preparation of agreements for employment-related activities in the management area. Such a law is not found in the law of Lake Earth. The bill also contains provisions for traditional crops, such as livestock, bird hunts, reindeer fishing, and hunting in rivers and lakes, and it says that they have the right to the right, as the use is sustainable. This is a set of energy efficiency regulations that explain the rules for the controversial issues. As previously stated, there will be activations that are already present in specific border areas and not part of the peace-lit region, i.e. not part of the park. Then there are regulations that explain the compatibility of Highland national parks and protection and energy efficiency programmes, or framework plans. Other ways are virtually the same for the Highland National Park as for today's Lakejörður peoples, which include: a management and protection programme, a general principle of conduct in the National Park, of activities and employment, of land use, of services as well as of general regulations for monitoring and authority. It is planned that the construction of basic services and other park services will take no longer than five to ten years to achieve its objectives. In a current financial program, funding has already been provided for the development of the core work programme and the operation of the national park. The Ministry's conversations with the local representatives around the highlands have established a number of ideas about where such structure might take place. Keep it there, including They are called houses near highway 1 as well as other ideal areas for building up on an alpha-way route. Such structure builds secondary jobs, enhances home service, attracts tourists who are interested in staying locally and taking advantage of the services available to the territory. Most important, such an opportunity is to expand that service and to add new ones when the tourist has additional reasons to stop at more places of construction. Viewing public activity and looking to Lakeh earth for judgment, there were a total of 34 years of hard work in the park in the fall of 2020. Of these, 30 were in park territory and four were in the capital area. And 114 persons were in summer work in the park last summer, all the work in the coasts of the land; and these numbers were of their number. I think it is safe for me to say, sire President, that in many places people see a great opportunity with the building that the Highland National Park will follow. It provides an important opportunity for the regions with the expansion of public work and travel services. The economic impacts of reservations are, therefore, considerable, as shown by the studies and resources used for nature protection are thus well spent. A respectable president. I hope that we will have the advantage of this unique opportunity now available by the Council to create the largest national park in Europe, a national park that has the opportunity to protect priceless nature and wilderness indefinitely, the opportunity to create a green front for the Korean tourism, which can make a difference for the restoration, and the country's opportunities for growing public work, building a guest room, and belonging to secondary services and green innovations. A highland park would no doubt be the largest contribution from Iceland to the world's natural protection so far and would strengthen the image of a foreign nation. Let us not be distracted by this opportunity. Finally, I would like to quote Jón Kalman, author of Stefánsson, who wrote an article at Science yesterday, which he said, on permission of a president: ▪... nobody has or can expect to be as happy with as much vast, emotional bill as is underneath. But, in turn, it is so incredibly important for us to come, when mankind is hopefully finding their way out of the Covid galaxy, to Iceland's health with the largest national park in Europe. Health with a park, integrity with the declaration that we are going to preserve and protect beautiful, threatening, barren, dramatic, violent, refreshing regions. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject and suggested that it be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u33	A respectable president. Admittedly, there may be some positive developments in the Middle East. With that in mind, though, I would like to ask about the need for him. What would happen without a central national park? What would the developments in the highlands without him be like? How does she get better with him? In the comments you've taken on this matter, and the Piratars have otherwise a agreed policy of coming to a central national park, so that I come from there, reveal the concern people have, and they want to know the answers, because that simply makes it better. How would the situation be without a central nation? How will a centerland national park solve the problems there will be?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u34	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the deposit. The senator asks: "What is the need for this assignment? " What happens without this park? I think there is a great need to reach the collective of protecting the central highlands as a whole, including By means of organizational arrangements so that both the practical and the protection I think it needs to be can be seen overall. So if it wasn't for the park, we wouldn't make it. I think we should also look to tools that are not just the protection of nature, i.e. building up that can be seen in the country around this time, in the development of tourism and public work in the country. These three things are most important to me; nature protection, organization, and opportunities of this great task.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u35	A respectable president. It's hard to get this to in one minute for the highest. Minister, because this is very important. V.E.G. According to a minister, half of the current territory is already declared peacefully and in the scattered territory. How would a centralized nation park, e.g. look out only with those areas? How does it help to connect them to this central national park and to meet the highest efficiency? The minister described last year's answer?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u36	V.E.G. President. By linking the areas that are already peacefully declared inside the highlands and by adding to areas within the central highland line, as expected here, in national lands, we are far better able to reach a whole greater degree in protecting these areas. We are better able to control the activities of the highlands. We can, in whole, work against the extraterrestrial development or protect the singles of nature found there, take care of the overall environmental educational work, and hold on to the structure that can occur in the area under the premise of sustainable development, with sustainable management. Inside the region is probably one of the most remarkable areas in Iceland and even though more than the rest of the world is searched. I think we're responsible, including when we look at it as a big, wilderness place, to hold this territory with a national park. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u37	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister of history, and for the first time bringing this case into the council, it is a big step to establish a highland park. Because of the highest. In the final answer, a minister said that nature in the highlands was invaluable, and we can truly agree with that, it's a bit clear how much we talk about the market opportunities of tourism and the economic impacts of a national park in the report. It allows for the possibility that some other economic impact can lure these priceless natural forces, as we know, for example. with the area that is now under the neck of Kaldrum's Healing. It refers to the perimeter of a national park, which was just waiting for Kárlen's activation by pulling the edge of a Lakejörg park to the north because the basis for the economic activation was first in place and for the national park number two. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the minister because the idea of peripheral space gets a little weird when the perimeters are scattered like bread crumbs across the whole area. [[The president calls.]] We're talking a lot more about holes where the holes are industrial areas for activation in this bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Doesn't this lead to danger?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u38	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u39	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the deposit. Hv. A senator speaks of the economic impact that is being spoken of. Yes, there's certainly opportunities that may not least be related to construction outside the park, i.e. in rural areas that lead to the highlands. This is primarily what this economic effect refers to. Hv. A senator also enters a perimeter and speaks of its being spread like crumbs all over the area. I may not agree entirely because the peripheral regions were actually responding to comments, including The environmental protection movement. In the bill code, the priming areas that are already in this area were part of the National Park, and they were criticized. This criticism was managed by limiting it to specific areas called peripheral regions and not part of the park.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u40	A respectable president. Back through the perimeters or industrial regions for the activations within the park because they are not on the edge. Challenging, in a waiting frame program, is in the middle of the area. Botnags, Grashagi, and Sandfells, for example, are on the edge of the land of Peace, set in there like pearls, and ready to blow steam, so that all the experience of the deserts in a peaceful country disappears by the Mountain whale. This will be in the middle of a national park, a centerland park. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Why, the classification of activation options in the frame program has not been revised from the obsolete category to the highest. Minister of Sigrún Magnúsdóttir set out here for a very long time and on a completely different basis? Then, in view of the fact that the advance team has Iceland record in advance of the executive bison, I'd like to ask: Minister over the head by having the majority of administrative support? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u41	V.E.G. President. The perimeters listed here that should host areas of energy efficiency, i.e. fields that have already been applied, and if it should happen, more sites would be applied, they are drawn around these sites. However, these are areas that are sharp. A candidate here brings up a waiting series of guidelines in the current council proposals, and we do not know what their outcome will be. There is a special provision in the high-national bill that explains how this interaction is conducted between the national park and a frame plan and is too short a time I have here to trace it. However, it is actually trying to complete a discussion about possible activation areas that could occur in as short a time as possible so that we will face the different views that exist and have been used in the highlands for a long time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u42	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for his history and work in this large and important matter, which is setting up some organization around the highlands, the heart of Iceland. But there's one thing I'm worried about in this, and it's that if everything goes sour, all the opportunities and the biggest national park in Europe, whether we're ready to accept that opportunity. Have we provided natural protection in the highlands so that many tourist attractions, which would be even more common in Europe's largest national park, can accept it as soon as the park is ready? Can we be sure of the security of visitors who arrive in this highland area? Can we secure the visitors' experience so that they still recommend Iceland? That's what I'm worried about and I'd like to ask the highest. Minister for.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u43	V.E.G. President. To start a national park in the middle of Iceland is just to be ready. That's the point. By having a national park in the area, we are ready to meet all the challenges we face when it comes to using the highlands. I think it's the right way to go on that road. In this way, we too can introduce the other aspect of our lives. A senator mentioned the security of those in the highland area. Of course, security is growing when we have a national park where we have people working in the field, and in effect, we have far more people in this area to care for such matters. So I say yes, we can't make ourselves ready to accept these opportunities unless we start the National Park.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u44	A respectable president. The second thing I wanted to ask the highest. Minister to the development of the organization and the planning of rural society. It is stated that in collaboration with rural society, a change in the management and protection programme is not being carried out over existing rural planning programmes. So if we take into account national policy and other natural protection requirements for nonviolent regions and so on, is there real planning? And, then, is there any other government that is being used today by rural society under national laws and other factors that are moving to the park, or will it remain with the rural communities? Does the whole administration of organizational authority follow? The question is, Is there real organization in the community?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u45	A respectable president. The main subject of my conversations with rural communities this year has been to address their concern over the development of rural society. As a result, I and my community fell away from the arrangement that is now located in a Lake Earth park, i.e. that national legislation and protection programmes are not binding to the rural organization as this bill is presented. This is to meet the demands of the local community. That means if there's something in a government and protection program that any community is not fond of and that they don't want to adopt in their organization then the community doesn't have to do it. Thus, the demands of the organization's integrity have been met. The communities I talked to, especially in summer and fall, welcomed this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u46	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Environment Minister for History. There are no reports that I have had considerable doubts about this matter and how it is presented and how it is intended to achieve some of the other excellent goals that are underlying. But I noticed that in the introduction to the minister, he skimmed slightly past the economic impact of the case as the highest. The minister made a great deal of a discussion last year, where countless times were referred to to as making the impression that every dollar submitted to national parks returned 23 times, saying that each dollar was twenty-three times to be put into a national park like this. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What makes less emphasis seem to be placed on this point today? [[The president calls.]] Was it not just room for it in the talk, or has something changed since the introduction of his food last year? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u47	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I have given this economic impact a great deal of weight, and I have said that the research that has taken place in Iceland but also in the United States and in Finland has shown that the financial benefits given in a peaceful -ised area are economic. This has been shown here by the research of the National Institute of Economics, the University of Iceland. This has been shown, as I said, in Finland by the same methodology as in the United States. So that in itself is not a change. I understand that according to the Economic Institutes of Economics, this figure, 1 over 23, was not entirely correct, it was somewhat lower. I'm not quite sure how much it is, I don't know. But this does not change the fact that, as we have already seen, there is considerable and significant benefits. [[The president calls.]] The person standing here is not trying to slip past one or more on that point. Rather, he has simply repeatedly proved that economic benefits are of this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u48	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer and better, I hope we here at the council don't put much money on a project that doesn't make any money. The other thing I wanted to ask the highest. A minister in the foreword to what the minister brought on in the matter of rules that explain the interaction of framework and highland national parks. Then I just want to ask you directly: Will Ministers be able to develop new energy efficiency options within the national parks if the bill is accepted as it is?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u49	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator asks about the interaction of the highland park and a frame plan. It is thus possible to have some activation options that will result in a third class phase under the bill. They are allowed to invade them in this area. They will then be in a so - called perimeter, like those areas that are already used for energy efficiency. If they are a waiting class, then a frame plan can look at them again and look at the methodology it uses in addition to certain factors mentioned on the bill. Other new ideas not observed, i.e. in the currently proposed frameworks, they would be out of the question in the national park itself. It would then be less activated that would be useful in the area itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u50	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the Highland Park. The Environment and Resource Minister has reviewed the National National Park bill in Iceland and will not interfere with the fact that he is in a state of great concern. A wide range of activities in these larger areas already includes more than 30% of Iceland's territory than is already around the world. Half when it's called "peacey," or about 15%. All this activity is in the hands of people who love the highland, their nature, and many farmers, for example. grew up in the arms of this land, which is their cradle, their survival, and their history. Thus, the highland, its organization, and its use, is important for the sustainable development of the country, for its valuables, for its recreation and outdoors. Our country is in good hands today. It will not quickly be seen that there is some special danger if this bill is not fully accomplished, for it is the common interests of all of us to take care of our country. The individual enterprise has long and hundreds of years forged a course in the highlands, using farmers to use it for the use of farms and farms. Savouring natural sheep are farmers, and they recognize the land as their palm, and no one has looked better at the welfare of the country than do farmers. Individual activity and protection are interactions that have proved beneficial, and we should continue to make use of them for the good of all. So I agree with the emphasis expressed in the opinion of the cross-cutting committee, which discussed the matter, that traditional uses can develop in a natural way in the highlands. A respectable president. I am concerned with such rural communities as the Blue Forest settlement on the need for the community's organization to remain in their hands. The opinion I have in my possession says, by permission of the President: But when it runs out and the rurals start working in a new planning, they need to take into account the park's management and protection programme. These plans are the other way around and agreed on by the district council and the park's management. This form of organization is being placed in the hands of members of society. On the contrary, a representative of the Blue Forest says: ▪ By bringing organizational matters from democratic elected representatives and moving to members of society and officials, local governments are being minimized. The last democracies are being made in the countryside. The people chose the members of the local government to care for their interests, not representatives of their communities. I agree with the local government that claims that the conversation with rural governments and rural society over the administration of a high-land park is not over. The bill shows that with an organization of national parks, there is an opportunity to cross control and to set policies in a consistent and complete way. These are all present in the current law; organizational laws, nationalization, and national planning are covered by these factors; and the rural communities work by these laws. Hence, it is only natural to ask what it is about the present system that requires such changes. - There's something wrong with calling me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u51	Mr President's sorry, he threw himself into some button and re-created something.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u52	A respectable president. Hence, it is only natural to ask: What is it about the present system that requires such a great change of law? Southern rural communities are now working together to establish a regional structure for the southern highlands, and this work is expected to take about four years. A much wiser way to work the organization and protect areas in this way and at this rate, where things are being carefully worked and carefully considered. After this discussion, we will see the committee where there will obviously be some change, and hopefully the warnings we independents have answered this matter, which is as reasonable as the one given here. I'm one of those who believe that this bill has taken too much steps at once to establish a highland national park that takes over so much of the country. Even now, for the National Park on the Thieves, Lakejörður National Park, the National Park Solnnnnnnjörg, and the expected National Park is a national park on the West, followed by tens of the peace-lit reservations of the country. We have heard of the economic problems and management problems that have been reported in the media last week, and large numbers of previously unknown stages of driving have been reported. There are many who are afraid of this approach and the funding of a new highland park that needs to be discussed, for the discussion is not over, I think, and many people I can hear. We need to make better terms with our rural society before we can complete this case, we need to discuss the funding and management of the national park, an entirely unwritten form of paper, and put the entire business's operation and planning into unacceptable uncertainty. Energy production and transport of energy and tourism must have a clear frame before closing this case and putting the power into the union that no one has ever chosen to take the lifeline of society in the countryside. So it is a good idea that has come out of the people whose case is the most urgent: Let's start by uniting the national parks and a peaceful reservation under the hat of a highland park. That would be a wise start. A respectable president. The size is not what matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk and the discussion here and would like to agree with the question. A senator, what he mentioned about the affection people in all parts of the area have for the priceless territory we are discussing here today. It is this affection that I think that we all need to reach our arms and make sure that people can continue to care for this area, that they can continue to work on a number of projects, such as land transplants, or the mark, will come up with signs, signs, and other activities that are being done in this area today. This bill promotes cooperation and, in particular, growth in what is well done. I want to come in for a second. A senator brings up the matter of organizational authority. That's where I don't think it's quite right, so I want to point to 16. the bill on the right effects of management and protection programmes. When compared with the rules that addressed Christmas last year, it was 1 mg. In this article of the bill on how a management and protection programme would be binding on the rural organization. In case of a moment. A senator will read this article today, not such a 1 mg. not found there now. What does it mean in human language, if we can put it that way? Yes, they're not taking the planning from rural society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u54	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister on the counter. I'm flattered that he came up against me to discuss this matter. I completely agree with the Minister that this will take deep into our minds, of course, and especially to the people of the country and those who live there next. That's exactly the point, the people they live in, the people they took over, and they've been cultivating this country, giving them everything they have without asking about what the pay is. It's all about the land, its use and use that people have enjoyed for years. So we agree completely there, me and the Minister, and the band's people agree completely with this, too. It's all about feeling, it's really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, Therefore, a respectable president is so urgent, not just for the council, but for the minister, that the matter is settled in a way that there is some dignity, that the people of the country, in the countryside, can stand up and say that they are reasonably at the conclusion that the council is going to achieve this. The bill has certainly been modified, but there is still a gap. There's a gap between local government and the minister. There's a gap between us and those who think the local society's too far gone, like I killed a little earlier. It takes the Senate to eliminate the uncertainty completely.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u55	V.E.G. President. I wanted to enter another part of my speech. A senator, who has two things to do, really. Hv. A senator mentioned traditional applications. There was a lot of talk at my meetings all over the country. In particular, I wanted to mention that following the discussion and following the discussion that the transnational committee decided that the bill would include a special code of laws that will address the issues, that traditional uses should be allowed in this area. Of course, they need to be self-sustained, like anywhere else and like any other use on the land. Then I'd like to mention a little bit about funding, because here are words like exit vehicles and other things, and I want to mention it specifically about Lake Earth and, in fact, nature's overall protection that have been added a lot of money, including in increasing soil protection and infrastructure in a national program that is especially being enjoyed by the parks today, which is a great pleasure to see and to be happening in many places. We are starting to build a service center or a guest room both in the Snæfelljörg and in a church town free, a number of projects that have taken place for a long time. I'm also going to report a report on Thermal Casualism, etc. Of course, we will continue this discussion. Councilmen on the Committee, after 1st. and I'm just looking forward to dealing with the situation and having a share in discussing it with you there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u56	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for this inquiry and discussion, which are excellent. We agree to ensure traditional uses of national parks. A minister also killed only at a mass meeting. They were very interesting. I attended a meeting in Aratuunga, which was very complex and my experience at that meeting was that the minister informed his affairs well, but there may have been more unconcerned questions after the meeting than before, that was my experience in speaking to the local people. We need to make things right, and we here at the council have to develop this habit, for this is not the only time we are criticized for our lack of communication. And it is of particular importance in such a delicate matter that we consult. The population is dwindling, there's a lot more weight for thinking about the highlands, stubing, and walking around, and it's working really hard to care for this area, which is, of course, so dear to us. It's also worried about funding, how much it's gonna cost, who's going to pay all the jobs, who's going to work in the guest shops. Of course, they are great and will be good places for tourists, but, of course, it all costs a lot of money. We need to see beyond that now, and especially in today's society's conditions that will prevail in the years ahead, as we work out of it, so that we are not putting too much weight on that propaganda.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u57	A respectable president. Nature is the most productive resource we have to care for, we need to protect and respect it. It is Icelandic nature that ensures prosperity in Iceland. Highland National Park, is that a good or bad idea? Big chance or not? Is this the way to ensure the goal of caring for and using nature for the prosperity of an Icelandic nation? There are debates and many with many differing viewpoints about this, as well as whether the opportunities are there, regardless of the regime we decide to have over our high country, the heart of Iceland. This is the most important arrangement, scope, governance, plans and preparation. All of this must be kept in mind when we discuss the important issues in our highland, our nature, and our prosperity. We need to find out what is the best way to achieve the best in this regard. The voyage in a highland park has been extensive and long, as noted at the highest level. Minister. The last three governments have discussed the matter. First it entered a national organizational policy, and then a form of choice was made, and last time it was entered into a new government covenant and set in motion a transnational committee. The Federal Committee had much consultation and listened to viewpoints. I shared in that work, I worked hard to hear the challenges the people in the country faced, their viewpoints, their worries, and their opportunities, and all that is involved. Going through was a great process of learning and was greatly benefited by the work to come. At the end of that work, I made certain changes in my mind or took up a memo and summed up my view of the matter. The work of the interpolitian committee was very good and extensive. There we received all these views, and the conclusion of the report is: What has to be done to make national parks available in the middle of Iceland? That's the result. My warning is that all that is stated in this report has to be fulfilled so that we can take this huge step. It's based naturally on consultations with rural society, with vagrants, crops, and all that. There have been a number of reactions in the bill here, but not everything, and I refer them to my collective stand. However, I would like to say this work: There was no choice analysis of those jobs. Rather, the arrangement was to import the park within certain boundaries, not one park, not with different geographical areas or different sizes, but with a little narrowness, so that it came out. But it has to be settled, it's absolutely certain, on such a big and important matter. Since the word is used in the name, National Park, and with Iceland's heart, I believe that a great deal of agreement will be made to rule, especially with current users, rural communities, and the current supervisors of the highlands. In the National Conference of Independence Party it stands, for example. the decision to make a high-land national park needs to be in agreement with adjacent rural areas. And I agree with that. It's going to have to work out. Nature is often talked about here, and nature's protection is one of the main objectives here. We must not forget that there is a big story in the highlands, around Iceland, and about farming. There are a lot of cultural and cultural memories in the highlands, and we have to protect them. They must be included in this process, we must maintain this. We need to know how we have reached today's prosperity, not to be forgotten. The highlands have not always been at peace. This may be the first time that we find ourselves in a foreign country that has not been so happy about. An outstanding debate has been made, the language of bait has been discussed, the organizational affairs, and the central highland line, which is used to set down the park. There has been a lot of debate over it, but really, there are no material reasons for the middle of the highland line. It was very clear in this consultation process that there is no evidence of natural or natural protection or that there is no basis for evidence of anything like that. The central region line exists for an individual organizational event long ago and should never have used it again, let's be absolutely clear on this. I think we can totally agree that the highlands so far and now are in good hands. It's been in good hands. The farms and farms have thought of the highlands, worked to heal them, went into the highlands, and observed and helped them. Farmers, mostly through their rioted communities or other related activities, have put countless jobs and funds into caring for the highlands. Extremities have made a great deal of volunteer work and have built up much wood, new high ground, and have worked hard to introduce it, making it more accessible to the people in the country. The energy companies have walked through the country with great respect, ensuring access and certain safety and other activities and have been very progressive in trying to reduce their environmental impact in the areas. We must preserve this and make sure that the highlands are in good hands today. There's a lot of work there, so initiatives can't be lost, and don't upset the type of work that's in there right now. Everything has to work together, that's part of the deal. I'd also like to mention that the percentage of the highlands they're talking about adding to the Lakes earth park in the highland park is completely different from the other region. These are two areas and the circumstances are quite different. A lakeland park is about 14% of Iceland's area and is the main source of a glacier. I don't know if it's removed from the capital area or a bioavailability or anything that makes travel - related pressures less difficult than in the other region, the southern highlands, and less tourist attractions. In the southern highlands are the largest resorts to the highlands, there are large reserves, there are the large fishing companies, where transport is more accessible, so it's all much bigger and more extensive. It's more diverse, it's administrativeally complex and stuff like that. I'm not sure we really need more people into the South, or whether we're just ready to take more people in the U.S. pools, for example. Are we ready to do that? I'd like to point out that though the Landsaver and Mountainback are a peaceful territory, but not in national parks, organization has long been there ready. It is that the initiative of the local people and current users in the U.S.A. is that they are ready, but they have not yet been allowed to step forward. We need to keep this in mind when discussing this big, important matter. But the structure that has become in the southern and other parts of the land is based on national laws. I've been calling the Nationals before. At last, over 20 years later, some arrangement is being formed that has come to terms with, experience and knowledge in the system, community communication, and the Ministry of Presidency. It's only been through there, and if you have to react, you've got to be a bit commutable. It has come to terms with a measure of reconciliation and experience. It has something to do with what I came up into the answers to the highest. Minister before, but it's how we're gonna be ready. I think it's a little dangerous to go to such a vast and large park and change the organization in such a vast area that is already busy without being completely involved with all the processes and arrangements. We already have it in the foreign countries, and it's just arrived. We need to be careful about changing the course when we are just over the river. In such a large and massive and important matter, there are always differences of meaning and viewpoints. I came into my office earlier that I gave a strong stand on a report by the Parapolitan Committee, and I continue to do so. The Independence Party has made this a matter of personal interest and has made certain warnings about the situation. We'll take them into work with us on the Environment and Transport Committee. I'm going to go over this very moment's notice. It is primarily about separation, about the size and size, what falls under it, and so on. We may have talked about how we should start by uniting the peace-lit areas in the highlands and then doing this as we are ready to go further. What is part of the arrangement for peace - informed areas, let us continue with it and expand it, leaving the territory where the peoples are. As long as we're finishing the framework plan, we can also have other members of the Generals' plans put together so that governments are having all their plans to talk to each other. We've joined in a process on Landsnet System, Framework, and so on. We need to make this talk, I think it's important. This led to the conclusion of the Parapolitic Committee, so that it should be. In terms of energy transport, it is necessary to find a way to ensure enough electricity transport across the country, that is the attitude of the Independence Party. Then there's the initiative force I came in on. It is of enormous importance that he does not lose, and all this volunteer work, voluntary contributions, and all that is being done by the inventors, farmers, all crops, tourism, and the present organisations in the high country are doing; that cooperation agreements are prepared with the current operators in the highland or management area, so that when the park takes up the job like an anointed machine, it has been made cooperative agreements so that the current workers can proceed safely. It is important to make even more effective use of the personal enterprise that has proved to be in nature's protection, and there is a need for a measure of space there as well as to build up the infrastructure. It was one conclusion that the government fund should not build up all the infrastructure. Rather, it should be in cooperation with privates, partnerships, and so forth. That arrangement must be established at the outset too, since it must not be done. You can't create booths over the highlands, and the increase in public activity is not stock, I make that statement. The national or national or national organization of the highland or highlands, whether by national organization or by any other organization, should create a general structure for the development of some valuable creation and such. The main point here is that there are many opportunities, not just leftover jobs, but that is not real structure. The universal rights and freedom of choice, we have to keep it intact, and it's part of culture and historical culture that I've talked about, and we have to protect. The security issue is of utmost importance, for security is assured, but not merely trust that the rescue teams will provide the safety of volunteers. It needs to be developed. The role of the park, the role of its private, its local, and its existing overseers, is of vital importance. It's important and the peace I've talked about. I'm just gonna get in on the board. I'm very impressed that the aim is to have the most meaningful conversation and most consultation, it has to do with this agreement, but if it's right to have 70 people in six regional councils, and a government that's on top of the current community organization and all those procedures with people who are free partners in a volunteer and otherwise, if that's true, I'm beginning to question it. I'm just saying, it's necessary that all the preparations and assessments of these activities be taken for nature protection, security of visitors, and visitors' experiences, whether or not we're ready to do this before the national park begins.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u58	A respectable president. At first just outside the program, I liked to hear it. A senator describes how the central region would be a mere human project, not some physical laws that would be drawn at a fixed height around the central highlands. That's how it goes with so many things we work with in this room. Remembering this can be a good thing. I was also interested in listening to the senator because I know that he has given himself a great deal to nature protection and the National Park especially, a prominent member of both the Parliamentary committee and the government of Lakehjörk National Park. What I would like to ask in particular is what was the red thread of it like. A senator spoke, and he seemed to be standing in front of both the forwarding party and the independence party in this matter, which is at peace. It is important that we are at least as much satisfied with such a big project. That's why I'd like to ask the senator, because he's been in this whole process, if he thinks it's realistic to put up with that reconciliation this year? These six models that I counted from him as the Independence Party and the seven warnings offered by the Agency, some of which are in agreement, but not all, are a bit much, only if we look at the reconciliation that needs to be achieved within the administrations. Then there's a lot of local government levels, the people there, the free partnerships, farmers and all this organization that was. A senator mentions. The question is, Is the senator really saying, "Is it realistic for us to make peace, and the end of this matter is realized in the winter? "
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer and these questions. Based on the size and scope of the project and its variety, it is very difficult to see that the matter could be completely settled. Whether it is possible to achieve sufficient peace may be another matter. I think that in the bill, in many ways the big players have been met by the local communities, the crops, and so forth. What I think would be the key to the reconciliation, whether it's too much for any party, I don't know what to do with it. The scope of the park can be determined, but it depends on the forms of peace and on such factors. The bill considers whether there's a perimeter for the continuum transfunctioners. It is then a question of whether we can have this in three ways, that the present peace - declared territory will go under the national park and thus a larger area, than the current national and national structure. So there's a lot of stuff in it. When we get this much and good discussion, which is about it right now, you never know what will come of it. I'm not going to rule out anything in advance, but I'm going to say that the project is big and emotional.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u60	A respectable president. The present government and use of the central highlands is mainly determined by planning and planning, the main rural and regional structure, national planning, and national planning. In 1998 a national law was given. That matter was debated at one time, and much was said in that discussion. It's been managed to straighten out the situation a bit over the years and to build trust between parties, i.e. those who live in lands that turn to national lands and the government. Yet, this is not the end of all matters. It is important to note that in a paper with a bill to their law, the rural communities each went to their own territory and cared for these areas, they fell within their administrative boundaries in most cases. It suggests that national resources will be divided between the prime minister and the local community. And that's the way it is today. Thus, the nations are not in a state of anger at all. They are under this government that has been developing and developing during this time. Also, at the time of the nationalization of nations, it was strongly discussed that the central highland line drawn, the boundaries drawn, would never be used in any other context. This was discussed especially by those who then discussed the matter and made those decisions. So it is basically out of context that we should be discussing such an important matter as the establishment of a highland park and aim at this threshold, the middle of the highland line. It was never drawn to any extent from the national park views and the use and protection that are to exist within it. There's a council proposal for the establishment of a highland park, I think first in 2015. She wasn't finished at the council. Then, I think, again, in 2017, and then the minister - appointed committee was set up in 2018. At that time, no Parliamentary proposal has been made to establish this huge task. In itself, the Senate has never discussed how humans can see this, where we were going with it, and where we were going to set the lines of work that lay ahead of us in that vast task. Of course, it is a very thought - provoking president that we are going on this great journey and that our backland within the group on this matter should not have been guaranteed by any discussion at the Council on what lay ahead. No analysis of natural protection in self-administration has been performed, i.e. Total interest. If we compare this with the approach when a Lake Earth park was established in its time, 1999's synopsis was adopted for the establishment of a Lake Earth nation and eight years later, or in 2007, a law on the establishment of the National Park was established, after this discussion had resolved. It's a reference to how, in part, bad work we're doing in such a big deal. Much needs to be considered when taking such a big step, e.g. Standards, standards, and requirements for protection. How to play perimeters into this and e.g. the use of energy resources, access to tourism and so many factors; the use of local inhabitants on baits, fishing, public travel, outdoors, etc.? What does it mean to enter the national park system? What options are available there? How far should we go? Will we take the step to the full at the outset? A park as suggested in this bill is a very permanent arrangement where natural protection is the most important thing to do. We need to try to answer where this park's activities will then look. Many people are really worried about this from different interests; those living in highland areas, residents of these rural communities from their uses and other interests, the large number of Icelanders who are traveling in the highlands, both summer and winter, those who are engaged in employment related to travel services and those who use energy resources in the country. In fact, it can be discussed for a long time as it comes to assess and adjust the meaning of other interests. There are so many unsettled, respectable presidents. Those who claim to be energy users are deeply concerned about this. It has, in fact, been revealed. Of course, the discussion of highland national parks is an integral part of the discussion. That's a long way to go. In fact, we have a frame of design, and in recent years we have not been able to discuss the subject in a grammatical way where we are going to aim for the use of our energy resources and what opportunities are being seen in it. Yet, in relatively short periods of time, the projections have changed dramatically. When we were discussing a frame plan five years ago, no one thought that wind power could compete with the energy we have. They're all different in the world today. By then we had not been given the reductions we had received in the Lakefield a few years ago, and we have completely altered the extent to which it will be important from national security reasons to distribute electricity production in many parts of the country. How will this play a role? Have future interests been evaluated? It has not been accomplished, and the work that was started on this great project was not expected. In fact, it was merely put together a group to evaluate and analyze opportunities in the park. It was not an analysis of the current position, not an analysis of lost items, but an analysis of the instruments of the park. That's what they suggested. The other plans we make are temporary. This applies, e.g. The programme, its main organization and national structure for 12 years, a framework dealing with the protection and use of our energy resources should be revised every four years, the Landsnet System plan should be reviewed next 2029, the transport programme is 5 and 15 years, and the communication plan is 2033. But we take this big step without having any rules that we are going to reevaluate our goals, review our situation. At the time of the assignment or minimum of 30 to40% part of the country, it must be normal to take at least one pass of the review of the strategy with regard to other interests, possibilities and future applications. How will the fund and operation of the National Park be treated? It's okay. It's okay. V.E.G. A minister made a little less than that the building would be extensive, that once visiting rooms were being built in a church village or elsewhere. But does it really have to be a national park, so that the state builds guest rooms or conventions for foreign tourists and otherwise organizes the highlands in cooperation with the locals? What is the role of the State in this construction and operation? Is that better in the hands of a private driver? Is the highlands threatened by those overseers who have had it in recent years and decades, even hundreds of years? Is it in grave danger? What will be the effect of national administration on the development and innovation of tourism? A great deal is made up of opportunities to set up a highland park, the largest national park in Europe. We see the controversies that are rising now, just because of the access of tourists in the Lake Earth park and the eating of it. The number of tourists and the limitation of the bioavailability of something is called for? How will humans act on that? V.E.G. Minister has said before, I think even before he entered the minister's chair, that there must be a limit of access to the highlands. The highlands just held a stand. Of course it is. When a search for permission to build a Kjal Road, which is naturally unacceptable and that is, in fact, has caused many to go into the highlands and enjoy it, the EEA said: "Well, the built - up road, it affects their environment so much that it cannot be taken. Is that a view? Isn't this something we need to put our arms around? Many seem to have the idea of a highland park centered on taking control, that it is not necessary for the protection of the present system or for the ruin of the present system. The speed of the case and the method of government decision making is unprecedented. In such a big case, it is unprecedented, and really crazy that we should think that we can use something here in this brief period that has never been paid fully by the Council before. Maybe it's not a good idea. Actually, I think it's good. I really like going into some interaction there. But as long as we have not identified the problem, we have not identified the impact and other interests, while this analysis has not been conducted but just a complete one - sided analysis, we cannot answer the question adequately. For example, there are specific terms of peace, including the following: because of bigger things, perhaps better? Would that be a better conclusion? Have we already offered a democratic approach, knowledge, and responsibility to fellow believers on this assignment? What are the interests of the future generations of this land? Are we making decisions that will influence the growth of tourism, tourism, and the enjoyment of the highlands, the ability to use energy resources in the changing world, where there is tremendous opportunity for Iceland to be responsible for stopping fossil fuels? We know where we can take the energy. We can just become energy exporters to form hydrogen production. It is a concern, a respectable president, that despite the discussion as high as possible. A minister speaks for my experience that the disagreement on this important matter has increased. Many feel that they should try to eat the elephant a little in one bite. I think that under these circumstances, it was unwise to give such a thorough witness. [[The president calls.]] The Mosaic Law does not discuss the matter. [[The president calls.]] I've made an explanation for certain issues I've got on the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u61	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill on a central national park. It's a bill that, in my opinion, needs a great deal overseers. The subject in its nature is complex and complex and varied. The management, protection, and use of the highlands are in nature a difficult task, and it is important that all involved come into the process, be clear and reasonable. At the top of the top of the country, 23 rural communities have a wide variety of activities, some of which have a very long history while other activities are being discovered today. In this area too, a significant part of the nation's energy supply is being carried out. The territory in question is the whole country's property, and therefore it belongs to rural areas, such as a whole other country in Iceland. There are many urgent assignments in the middle of the country. A growing nation - in addition to travel, increasing attendance calls for more coordination and cooperation on the use and protection of the highlands and more outdoorly than on the level of production and traffic. I have considered the phenomenon a national park, with its different protective categories, to be a useful instrument and a platform for this needed coordination and cooperation. I also think that a national park in the middle of the country can create opportunities in scattered settlements to create private and public employment. A park could thus, if successful, create an opportunity for people who want to live in a rural area to choose a place of residence and create people who create additional opportunities for industrial development and strengthening communities. Besides, of course, the principles of protection that I think all citizens of this country are important, even though we do not necessarily agree on the methodology of protection. The Agency's Group highlights cooperation in the protection and use of the highlands, such as any other country in the national community. It is not to be secretive that, as in many parts of society, there are very divided opinions about national parks in the middle of the country and whether there is the right way to reach out for the challenges there. My biggest doubts about the bill as it is now focus mainly on the order in which it is wise to carry out the visible tasks, on which steps we should expand our present national park in the middle of the country, which is said to widen out a lakeland park, and how fast it is realistic to do the work, what must be done before a larger national park can exist, and how long it will take. The work of the Generals is to determine whether the proposal as it is available to address the challenges and whether it can establish the cooperation necessary for the future on the use and protection of the central population. I think someone who used to talk to me had a way of talking about participation. All involved need to be active participants. We need to be effective if we use this tool, this phenomenon of a park, because without the best results at first, there is a worse start than at home. There has been a lot of work on this project during the season, and in fact, many have thought about it for decades. In recent years and months, the group involved has grown, and we have to respect the fact that people have had many time to figure out the concept of national parks and projects in the highlands. I have spent a lot of time in the past few months looking at the challenges facing the highlands. The time is well spent, for these are projects that must be handled regardless of the progress of national parks, various projects to be made clear by the Council. The task is extensive and complex that there must therefore be a good time for the coverage, both at the General and in the community. I was a member of the transpirotian Committee for Environment and Resource Minister for the Institute of National Park in the Middle East. The committee gave a report that drew a picture of how a park might look and drew out a point that would have to be considered if such a park was to become a reality. Participating in that work was a process of learning and enlightenment. The committee depicted a highland national park as a vast national park that would be formed with special regulations and dwell on land in the national community, i.e. National and peaceful areas in the middle of the country The ideas of the Committee were based on extensive consultations and widespread management by direct members of the countryside and strategists. I think that this report may have been somewhat missing. It is one of the main opening points for the Committee that the National Park promotes and supports the traditional use of the highlands as it establishes a covenant to protect the environment and culture of the central highlands. Then the committee stressed that in preparing a bill, a more thorough analysis of the national budget needs of the park would be made. The Committee also considered it important that in the implementation of the national park on a legal bill, it would be considered that the park's national governance could start this work, and after events, with the targeted plans needed before business, such as a management and protection programme and employment policy. It was then important that at the establishment of a highland park, we first consider the research and the data monitoring of traffic monitoring and natural progress to make a realistic assessment of the results of the organisation and operation. Now that the bill on the matter is passed to the Council, it is the job of the Parliament to determine whether or not the proposals as it is will handle the challenges presented in the report and the challenges that have appeared in the narrative process since then and whether it is likely to include the cooperation needed to accept the protection and efficiency. As we have seen in the discussion, the Assembly of the Assembly made a specific advance in handling the case for the council. So I'll be able to include myself in the progress of the situation on the environment and transport committee. They are linked to all the challenges presented in a report by the Parapolitan Committee. I'm going to skim over this short notice: 1st Dissociation of external boundaries and different protective groups is carried out in cooperation with rural areas and with their consent. 2. The role of rural development and the role of planning and districts in the implementation of management and protection programmes will be clear. 3. • providing a longer-term budget with a realistic schedule of time needed for planning procedures, the time to build up governance, the time to work on policies such as management and protection programmes and employment policies. We've all seen it take quite a long time in other national parks. 4. The responsibility for the funding and maintenance of transport workers in the highlands will be explained both to the highlands, within the highlands, and to the routes leading through it. Of course, access to people in the middle of the country and the equal between travel practices has to be guaranteed. 5. The setting and development of traditional crops is clear. 6th Energy processing and transport of electrical energy and cohesion of energy efficiency are expected to reduce energy generation and electrical transport. 7. Communication with other laws on protection and use will be undertaken by the Generals. This applies, e.g. for the Regulation on sustainable application and the protection and fishing bill on the way to the council. 8. Together with the work of the Generals, the Agency will be created to ensure the continuation of a variety of projects now performed by various peoples on the highlands. It is the volunteer work that is immediately done. It is a variety of projects that deal with security, various types of service, land management, traffic vision, recovery, and protection projects. This is also true of commercial projects, not just voluntary projects. - This is, I think, one of the important things to ensure participation among the most people in creating an arrangement that makes reconciliation. 9. The role of the different state responsibilities on safety in the highlands. 10. More important, the cooperation between locals and rurals and the state of the Middle East needs to be assured. Otherwise, the central area will not be a sustainable area. - That's key. Some of these things are reasonably done in the bill already, something is unclear, and something is missing altogether. One of these conditions requires work that must be performed together with the work of the General. Something else is over by the council. I don't have time to look into many of these points, but I'm just going to get better into the road and cut down the park. Roads, roads, and roads in the highlands are a major challenge. Should they all be open, and who is responsible for them? The part of the highway system that lies within the central highlands is 54 roads. Their survival is the responsibility of the Road Building. In the middle of the country, there are four main roads and the network of land roads. There are also unique roads that fall into other roads. There are many, and here and there, and there, roads and paths in the middle of the highlands, which do not belong to the highway system. These roads are registered. Most roads in the middle of the country, whether they belong to the highway system or not, are simple dirt roads or roads, some may be difficult, with unwieldy rivers, and some are in a very delicate land. There has long been uncertainty as to how to determine which road routes to drive during the years are permitted. The decision must be made about this road. The park cannot be expected to finance or maintain road repairs; it must be assumed that rural and crops will maintain trails. Or can it be assumed that these people, communities, and crops, will maintain road access sites that were not built for? I think it's very important that the arrangements for funding that will be maintained on the highway network become transparent and become part of a transport program. There must be a debate about who will take care of the roads built by rural society and the crops. So just at the end of the day a little bit more about the separation. Despite the criteria for establishing national parks in the middle of the highlands, I have always viewed it as the outer edge of the area for consideration. The extension would have to work together with the individual rural areas associated with planning and separation of different categories of protection areas and how lines will be drawn around damaged areas such as energy generation. In this way, the local community was gradually built up by a lake park. For example, there is no reason to interfere with the outer borders of the present lakeland park. In all cases, work has been established for the current limit. It came, for example. clearly in the cross - political work. In many cases, it is not a reason to stretch out lines along curved lines but rather to follow geographic or natural bodies. In order to promote the matter to the General Assembly, the national park's perimeter or impact fields became visible. There had been little in the discussion before. The Agency's Group emphasizes that the perimeters will be defined within, from the outer edge of the park, so that they do not interfere with new forms outside the park. This work must also be part of planning, for the size of affected areas is highly dependent on local landscapes. But finally: Teamwork, cooperation, cooperation, participation, participation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's log for the speech. I'd like to ask you what. A senator in front of the Panorama Party. I don't remember seeing such a thorough and large court order in a case that has gone through the government and members of the government. Here are seven massive warnings and a number of extra focus points. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative whether the Specialist Party is, in fact, saying that the matter is not fully understood, that there should have been much more and more work to be done in the Ministry of Ministers before it entered this council. This kind of preemption actually means nothing more than that the forward party does not support this case. From members of the Independence Party, those who are the most independent members of the Central National Park case, it seems that there is hardly a powerful support for the idea. So, in the end, it's just a park left green? The question will be raised on such massive notice. It's not what. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir just says, "We don't support this case? He's actually the head of the party too. The models are put by him. Would it not be better at home than then, to send the case back to the minister, to work better, and to see if the occasion or the will is to consider these comments before putting the council next to that fight?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. The warnings primarily reflect the complexity of the matter. There are an amazing number of factors. The models also lead me to work on an environmental and transport committee that tells me that it will not be easy to discuss the matter there. It's a huge project. As I mentioned in my talk, some of these also call off certain jobs outside the council, as if to see more clearly how fast this complex task can be done. What is a realistic plan? For example. You can watch a Lakeland park and how long it took to complete management and protection programmes for all areas. When was the job policy set? You have to do this work. Whether it comes in somehow to the council or whether it's going to be a dead end is a staging point. We need, for example. to be given the opportunity to understand this in the environment and transport committee each cooperation with the Commission on sustainable use of the land is at the bill. The premonitions primarily reflect the complexity of this project, perhaps in a very simple way, I think, whatever it takes to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir yet answered. I think that's a good point that happened by then. A senator said that what is practical in these matters needs to be considered. Watch your step. A senator may later decide whether he or she is involved in what time the council needs to do a bill on a central nation park, and after incidents agree to and finish, or whether it is a work that then takes place on the basis of that law? There's a fundamental difference. I can't see that anything makes sense to speed things up in the way this is done, just in view of the magnitude of it. Something else caught my attention in the history of a dog. Senator, when the senator crossed the alert. Hv. One senator mentioned that some of these things were already well done, and I think the senator said so. Could the senator please enter the points in the seven warnings and the emphasis that the forwarding party feels are well set in the bill for now, just for practical purposes, so that these points are not put on special emphasis? It is difficult for someone who is not a member of the Agency Party to discern which points are considered successful, or fit, as the senator expressed it, and who needs a special opinion or even a revolution, in the opinion of the House of forward Christians.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u65	A respectable president. I think, for example. The traditional crops of the bill have been appreciated in many ways. But it has to be carefully reviewed, including in conjunction with other legislation or protocols, whether there could be any interaction. That's one of the things I think are going well. That's where I'm interpreting the warning in my own way. Some of the members of the council may not feel comfortable about them. However, there is one of the key elements that must really be looked after and considered in the case of the Committee whether the situation is well controlled. Similarly, when I saw this bill, I thought that it was a good idea that it was obvious that more than one of the protecting groups, and even many, were put into the park. In closer care, this was not clear enough. Since then, the situation has been added. I think even more needs to be added. You could say that it's at all levels. There are things to think about. Although I think that a particular feature, such as traditional baits, may not be as good for a particular kind of fishing. It will then appear in the reviews to the Committee, if that is the case, or if not the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u66	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the Highland Park. Not surprisingly, I have some doubts about it. Here are a variety of factors, and then a little bit of the story, I was in the so - called transpiritian committee, which started working to see if there was any sense in the matter above and how it should be handled to the best of it. It's not much from saying that I saw a reason for telling me about that piece of work at a certain time, perhaps because I considered the entire issue that was very much discussed, primarily to be a sham in times of trial. It is the tone that has actually echoed from the time the case was submitted, started with a presentation, and was then in a report, which I had left for Ministers, for the entire last assembly winter, and until now. There have been reports of stakeholders, particularly in the areas of interest, rural society, businesses operating within the area where a central national park is supposed to cover, outdoors, etc., that the representatives of the case had arrived at the site, held meetings, certainly listened but not taken any notice. There's no consultation. Yet, that is the situation, and there is no indication that it is changing. I have not seen the difference between the current case and the case as it was proposed last year, which should lead to individuals, communities, or businesses counting the matter much better off now than they do. This was the historical introduction I wanted at this point. I criticized it in my own time, after I became aware that there were reasons to consider just a few in the preparatory work. It is the word of the Church of England, which is among the ministers of the council, to set up a so - called transpolenic committee, but when it comes to it, the purpose of the committees seems to be, in later stages, to point out that all classes had a chance to approach the committee even if there was not a single matter from them. Of course, it is my goal to muleize parties in political discussions. It cannot be good, neither for democracy nor for material management nor for good. So I'm going to go into this room and to the ministers who hear it, I think it's subsided, but it has to stop. Ministers must be responsible for their affairs, present them themselves, and defend them. And then the government and the government, of course, have to stop us from spending the day as we did yesterday, we spend more and less each day in discussions, daggers, and arguments about matters that occurred during the day that there is about no support for the board. Since then, we must be free. Next time, I'd like to step into organizational matters. Of course, there is no doubt that criticism, especially of the local community, has been intense in this matter, and even though slight adjustments are made from year to year, it is made that the big picture is unchanged. These are not people who think of these songs for the first time. They have a deep understanding of the things involved and speak with great knowledge. We are directly obliged to take it seriously, especially when the same people report that they have had a view throughout the course of the case, from the first so - called consultations in what is still called a transnational group on the preparation of the case. I don't know how fair it would be to call a group of parapolitics when a single-rate representative has resigned, but let it lie between parts. I'm not going to argue with you about that name being held in that category. Next time, I'd like to introduce to you the need for legalization. I cannot doubt whether there is a need for the legal process here. It is possible, I believe, to achieve most of the goals, many of which are good, either within the present rule or with much less burdensome means. V.E.G. A minister specifically mentioned Article 3. the bill in his frontnote address, which is the focus article. Then I'm going to go through some of the highlights there are. They're 10 total. I'll name a few of them, by permission of the President: ▪ The aim of the peace description of the Highland National Park under these laws is that: [...] 2. Give the public the opportunity to get to know and enjoy nature, culture, and history of the park. Wait, do you have to start a highland park to do that? Has that not been the case for decades and, of course, forever? It has been successful for a long time and is no worse than that, so foreign tourists find great pleasure in coming into the area and enjoying nature, culture, and history of the region, so it can be done without setting up a highland park. Then, with the permission of a president, he says: ◯3. Enriches the public access to the park as far as possible without its natural nature being lost. To achieve that goal, does a central nation or highland park need to be established? Not at all. These goals can be achieved within the present rule. It's actually done, but it's mostly limited on budgets for road repairs. which cause not to work faster than it is. The fourth thing that has come here under the aim of a highland park is, by permission of a president: ▪ Achieving that the public can live outside the park in harmony with nature and culture. Is that a problem? I didn't know that. Of course, the public has been able to go outside the national park area for a long time without any significant problems. Why is it necessary to establish a special highland park in order to achieve this goal? Now I've mentioned three of the first four. Let's go. I'm gonna jump over the 5th team and go to the 6th, with President's permission: ▪ The National Park will be a stage for discussions and decision-making within the park and its development. Is it not right to do so before we establish a highland park? They're doing everything in the wrong order. These are the goals of the case. What, then, is the bottom line of importance if our goals are so weakly advanced? ◯ The park will be a place of discussion and decision-making within the park and its development. Why don't we start with this? It's all kind of weird, I'm sorry. On to the seventh point, by permission of the president: ▪ See the national park for research and education... Is there any basis, then, for us to engage in research and instruction in the areas in which we live? These are many of Europe's most elegant regions, except for of course those who use the area. Does a highland park need to be established in order to promote research and education in Iceland's highlands? It's some kind of nonsense, some damn thing. I'll read next to the eighth thing, with president's permission: Ecosystems that have been disturbed. It's still the same thing. This is a situation that is extremely unsatisfying to use and carry out under the present rule, and it is actually done. Some of us in this room know how to develop in agriculture, farmers, and other interest stakeholders in the areas stand in a variety of structural projects, which include building blocks. to restore ecosystems. A highland park does not have to be formed to achieve this goal. The whole thing is being made more complex and complex than it needs to be. Then there's the tenth item I'm going to let me mention here, by permission of a president: ▪ Achieving cooperation and cooperation with societies and volunteers on the affairs of the region. I reiterate: What is the need to establish a highland park to achieve these goals? The people who are most concerned about how things are happening in this bill are exactly the companies and volunteers who have the greatest passion and interests in these areas. These are the farmers, the citizens of the country. These are the companies that provide their services in these areas. These are the outdoors, who, in horror, think of a situation similar to that of many areas within a lakeland park. The greatest concern is the one about which the tenth objective is that we are now cooperating with these groups and these people. If this is what the government needs and does, why not accept it? This does not have to be the case with a highland national park. Unfortunately, everything is being done in the wrong order in this case. I'm sorry, but it's a common practice for the lndependence Party, Front Class, and Left Green that a reasonable chronological order of things doesn't seem to be the best part of it. The organization is not good, and the process is even worse in long chapters. It was really necessary to go through these goals, and I want to draw attention to the fact that just seven of the ten goals mentioned in Article 3. The bill, then the other three make it that I might as well have gone through them too. The aims of the establishment of a highland park, as presented in the bill itself, are as good as this. This should be sufficient reason for us to take our steps slowly. It's not a decision we're just gonna make and watch. When that decision is made, this vast area has simply been established under the rule and shape of a highland park. It cannot be replaced in such a simple way. Now, after this discussion is concluded, the management of an environmental and transport committee where I am in the lead. Of course, I will, although I have doubts about the matter, take care of it as I do of all other matters, with the greatest honesty and conscience, that it may receive fair and good treatment. I urge the senators and my comrades to rest. Environmental and transport committees to manage these issues carefully. But I'm only about a third of the points I was going to come on here. I see that there are only a few seconds left of my time and I would like to ask the President to put me back on the rosary so I can get those points back to me afterwards that I believe it is necessary to treat 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u67	Madam President. I thought it was interesting to hear the passage of a dog. A senator in charge of his goals in the highland park. In part, his criticism focused on setting up an organization to promote study and instruction, as stated in point 7 of view. Maybe now you're right, as a matter of fact. A senator mentioned, e.g. can help to improve land healing, which is facing the 8th point, etc. Still, I wondered, " What is it? ' A senator can describe how he sees that further research and instruction would be done without the availability of an institution because we now know that this area is widely used for scientific purposes. There is an urgent need for the public to be better informed about what is in the middle of the country. I didn't go into Iceland's central highlands until this year and wish I had done it much sooner, there's so much to pick up. How can you tell? A senator envisions that research and instruction would be financed in another way, how might this be done better? More important, what shape would be more suitable than some kind of national park?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u68	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy counter. It is not a problem, however, to support research and development in this area, as in so many other areas of the economy. We have a wide variety of funds that support a variety of basic research and general research in all areas of the economy. We have a powerful university in Hólar, we have our high school in Iceland, and we have no doubt there's something in the University of Reykjavík engineering that fell below; I don't know how to say how much work there could be left to the University of Akureyri. There are, as I say, a wide variety of funds, land transplants, and forestry. We have a lot of government institutions or relief tools that could, in a very efficient and practical way, be sure, improve research under their hat. If it can be financed within a so - called highland park, it can be financed for some other government agency, a living fund, or a private firm as it worked. I see no problem supporting this objective without setting up a special institution. There's nothing in the bill that indicates that research - truly education, I give it to myself now - is a special part of the park if you just look at his organization.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u69	Madam President. Yes, this is so true, and I can share much criticism. Senator. But it is also the case that within the highlands of Iceland, one is one of the largest if not the largest of Europe's deserts, which is quite remarkable, and I don't know that there are any special funds to finance that research in that area, e.g. ... in pecographics and other things. Indeed, there are the geology departments at the University of Iceland, and of course some in the field of education are looking to that area. All, though, are general measures. A senator mentioned. I cannot help but see that something positive could come from having some special means to support that goal. I know why. One member of the Environment and Transport Committee is expected to be treated for this matter. I'd like to encourage him to do so, in view of the fact that this bill is already available, to see if there is any other fund that can be added, if that is the case. One senator noted that there is a lack of funds that would contribute to the investigation in this field. I think it's a good thing they're trying to protect this area. I have a few things on the bill to put and will review it in a talk below, and even very many things I find are unacceptable in the current draft. But there's a simple way for us to fix a fault. While other institutions and other funds may be able to deal with this, this fault may be eliminated and some one of these may be added to the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u70	Madam President. I'm gonna promise you right away. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy that I will not suggest a special fund within the institution that I oppose being formed, just to be delivered. But, hey. A senator seems to have heard something wrong. I didn't say I was missing a fund or an agency today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u71	But it's not there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u72	If the aim is to support these studies, there are plenty of funds, companies or institutions that can do this under the current hat instead of setting up a special institution there. We're not on a similar charge now, me and you. A senator, and understand each other? I don't think it's necessary to start, just so it's clear, a central national park to achieve the goal of further research in the highlands. As far as I'm concerned, I think there's no reason to start a special fund within an institution that I don't think is a reason to set up. I hope this answers a question. Senator. According to this, it is important to keep up - to - date that it is probably researching in the highlands; I will not oppose it, as it were.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u73	President. Hv. A senator considered goals with a highland national park and traced some of them to a conclusion. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy just before he thought he needed to study, of course. But as for the fourth objective, to help the public live outside the park in peace with nature and culture, I did so in speech. A senator claimed that this was no problem today. But, hey. Senator, that's a problem. In fact, there are various natural bulbs that have been kept unscrupulous, or have been little, because they are very sensitive and very beautiful. But in Internet times, it is easy to find them. They are simply marked by GPS buttons, and those who have not learned to associate with Icelandic nature in general have searched these places without respecting the fragile nature in which they live. Sounds like there's a speech coming out of there. A senator's view of such goals is that he generally agrees with them, even though he calls them sick or something similar. I feel that this is a very necessary goal, and nothing is sick at all. It's absolutely fundamental. And considering it's a problem, obviously it has to be fixed, right?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u74	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. When I talk about being ill with the objective branches, I'm talking about it in the matter of being a foundation for decision making on the establishment of a highland park. Our goals are not weak, not individually. But when you go through ten goals and there's a reason to say that seven of them, at least, don't call for a special institution to respond to the emphasis that's presented there, I think it's a pretty high proportion. But to the fourth, that is, to a good degree. A senator, by permission of the president, came into his office by saying: "I want the public to be able to live within the park in peace with nature and culture. " Of course, this is a noble goal, so for example, we are for forming a law on nature protection, a law on these factors, on close association with sensitive places, and so on. In the early stages, there may be a much greater lack of emphasis on protecting and informing in those areas. And because it's the highest. A minister came on the outside and said it was easier to reach and defend him, as discussed in 31 st. law on nature protection. So there are rules and rules around us in the laws we live in, and perhaps especially in the laws on nature protection, No. 60/2013, though not older than that. There's no ancient law. When I reviewed the bill's objective, I reiterate what I said that most of these factors are either in the present or in a better way than setting up a special institution.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u75	President. Yes, these matters are vital and urgent. Outside driving has become somewhat more serious in recent years, only if you look at news about him, and certainly it would be good to intervene in the past. But with an increasing number of tourists, the vast number of people now being there seemed to be overworked, unable to care for what was needed. Maybe it's because this is a twosome and abs, it's here and there, where communication becomes more difficult. As the magnitude increases and pressure increases, the value would be at least Not wise to increase communication in any way, to increase efficiency in the wide range of problems mentioned in this bill? Whether it is called the necessary highland park or something, the problem is clearly there that needs to be tackled by access to highly sensitive natural bulbs, road distances, and other pursuits discussed in the objectives. Well, at least not at all. A senator who is opposed to a high national park or an organization to do this is also a problem with small people everywhere trying to work out the same goals. The efficiency must weigh something in this process right now. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u76	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I can only say right away that I'm a big fan of efficiency, especially when it comes to government business. Now I know what to do. A senator is very interested in the reports of the State Reconnaissance and if we look at the effects of the tractors that the Lake Earth Park has obtained in the report The National Reconnaissance then they are intimidated by the steps involved in these topics. Not only was efficiency lacking but there were much more factors at that point. The way it worked out with a lakeland park alone should be enough to say: Let us at least consider carefully whether it is wise to do this in this way. I think that these efficiency measures can be achieved, and more or less all the goals specified as targets of the legislation, in all other and more practical ways that ensure better flow, better efficiency and efficiency, and which, of course, close to the great conflict that is being brought up in connection with the community planning, access, company and individual contacts and housemen, and so on the streets. So to answer the question I think it is. A senator has been forming and asking, if I don't think it's necessary to form into an institution to cover all these factors -- now shakes over. A senator's head is not the first time we don't understand each other. But I don't think it's necessary to create a new government agency called a highland park to achieve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u77	Madam President. We're here on a big, big case today. There's a lot under: Land everything. Fortunately, we Icelanders are fortunate to have had advocates for the country, friends of nature, friends of the environment for decades. It's all been on the basis of individual and partner enterprise, and that organization, and individuals have done their job well. We are here to discuss in 1st. A bill on a highland park, a case of the same nature as it was proposed for a 149th assembly, where this bill was with a relatively different feature, a different appearance. This has been done, or has been asked for, helpful adjustments in the context of the discussion, and in other respects, it has had a little face lift. We've been thinking about our country and nature over the years. This has been quite a coincidence, depending on how we have been doing it. It should be noted that before you think that a case has already been presented at the World Council in centralland parks, such as the Supreme Court. In fact, a minister entered his entrance today, a council proposal for a national park on the central highlands. At the 145th legislature, members of the United States of America made a motion here at the high General Assembly, which went out that the Environment and Resource Ministers would be assigned to prepare for the peaceful proclamation of the central highlands of Iceland as national park, which was then to be introduced at the 2016 spring Summit, with the aim of a national park in 2018. Its fears included. A survey that Gallup worked for National Protection and the National Protection Association of Iceland, conducted in March 2015, where nearly 65% of respondents claimed to be in favor of a national park in the central states of Iceland and actually claimed that there were over 12% opposed. That may sound strange to those who listen to the discussion, at least In part, because the same does not appear to be the case today. At that same time meeting of the United States, in 2015, support for the proposals of a nature protection organization where I believe, if I don't break, was declared. has the current maximum. Minister, be head of the board. There we agreed on a national park in the middle of the country, and the proposal was submitted to Council 145, as noted earlier. Unfortunately, the matter did not succeed at that time, but it is more than smallly associated with the UN's emphasis on environmental and natural protection. The existing bill now takes on an important step in achieving harmony and harmony with the way we want, how we need, and how we deal with our nature and the land that has come to be used, according to events overexploited and used in its own way over the centuries. As shown in a bill report, the country's central height will cover about 40% of the land's area, becoming one of the largest continuous areas in Europe where it will not be caught if this bill becomes legal at the council. In the middle of the country, however, the majority of the country's population is built and scattered. So these are one of the largest areas in Europe today and its value in itself. And before you know it, I believe we're going to be dealing with this thing like a global phenomenon. The central area is unique in nature, and within it there are large numbers of natural and cultural, memory and continuous areas, some of which are protected in some respects. It has been discussed by the Generals, the Government, the stakeholders, and the public as a future strategy for the management of land management in these and other areas and whether these factors are usually to be controlled. The discussion will include: spins around the use, protection, and construction of infrastructure, often in the light of a growing number of tourists coming to the country and choosing to enjoy nature's freedom from the world. Hence, there is special reason to establish these matters without any distraction in those who have used or walked around the area in the past and who have done so well in many ways. An article with the bill shows that close consultations were made with stakeholders, including rural communities, most of which support the subject of the bill, but not all of them. Those who do not do so are particularly concerned that their organizational authority will move to the government of the highland park in the form of a management and protection programme. The development of rural society is greatly impaired, and this trend continues to reduce national independence. V.E.G. A minister in his case today explained this point very clearly and dismissed it. Other rural groups did not consider the establishment of a highland park to be timely, since problems associated with the Lakesland park were not yet solved. Then came the view that with the establishment of a highland park, freedom of persons was even being restricted. The representatives of energy companies also required continued operation and development of activation areas within the national park. I'm sure the next thing I'm sure there's been a lot of big troll stories or misunderstanding about issues I believe a minister has worked hard to destroy or explain at the time that has passed since the first bill was submitted and until now. From the interaction between individuals and members of the community where I know it can be concluded that there are strong opinions on this bill, both in those who are inclined to walk into this area, and we have heard them here from the General Assembly's symposium today, and also in those countries who feel that this is an act of vision and altruism toward the protection of individual nature in Iceland. Madam President. If the bill becomes legalized, the Sea of Earth's Earth's Global Park, where an organization is laid and a highland park will be established as a new and comparable organization. It is noted, however, that there will be no adjustment in the formal setting of the Lake Earth's national park until a highland park is declared at peace and under regulations. For other national parks this bill is expected to be unchanged. It is suggested that the government structure of a highland park be similar to that of a lakeland park, but because of its size it would be somewhat more complex than other national parks. Regarding the control of the national park, see II. section of the bill. It says that the park will be divided into six management areas, such as the highest. A minister entered his speech, and that members of the community would be assured in each business area by order of one representative. In this government, 11 agents will be sitting. The bill covers the role of the government, the director, the management area, the district council, and the National Guard. The bill cannot be managed unless the establishment of the National Park Institute is no more. V.E.G. A minister has said that the viewpoint of the most important interests is to be taken care of in matters related to this bill. Some of the biggest stumbling blocks in the bill presented in 149 C.E. were taken away by Congress on National Parks and National Parks, which were not at all agreed. A minister has mentioned that he put forth effort to approach and discuss with stakeholders and clear viewpoints, and that's a good point of view. This bill bearing the title Highland National Park is here for 1. and are now being reassigned to the relevant and careful management of environmental and transport committees where various views can be expected. The matter received much attention when it was presented to 149th Congress and a good deal of discussion about it in the community, and it has actually been under constant control since then. The feeling is that this coverage has sometimes been somewhat exaggerated, somewhat extreme, and emotionally charged, and that is normal. Those who know their country best have tender feelings for it. It will be informative and exciting to participate in a work-in on the environmental and transport bill. As a minister has repeatedly mentioned in a talk and in a publication, he here believes that he is taking on an important bill, a matter of interest for all the people of the country, and a national agreement, and that it is accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u78	Madam President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. I wanted to agree with the process because of what I was doing. A senator stressed this to the highest level. The secretary of the environment would have had an excellent scheme, he would have travelled about and talked to the party. But there is a conflict with what has been presented in the comments on this subject. Municipal communities, especially in the South, have said that the negotiation has not been enough. Now it's got the highest. Minister said he'd fixed it up. As a result, I picked up the phone and called one of the directors in the South and asked him if he had done something about it. The local commander did not recognize this. That's a little conflicting with what's at the top. Minister has said. This indicates that some pot is broken in the preparation of this problem that must be handled. What I wanted to ask you. A senator is now being investigated, including U.S. research on cooperation when it comes to national parks. It places great emphasis on talking with the locals at all levels of the matter. What I'm trying to come to, huh? A senator, I believe, is afraid of the steps. Is it not to expect that after a national park has been established, things will go in a way that leads to virtually no consultation because few consultations have been made in the process of establishing the park? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It would be good if it were. A senator might come a little closer to this consultation, which he says was good, but the communities are not familiar with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u79	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. What do we have in mind? It is eternal food, a late personal discussion with each partner possibly. I do not know exactly which consultations have taken place and how much. I know, however, that the highest. With its colleagues, a minister has endeavored to inform and present information, purpose and purpose in developing this park. But we may have to look to Iceland's special position in many ways. They, especially in rural areas, have strong feelings, strong opinions, and strong traditions regarding association with the land and the possession, ties, or rights to which they believe they have almost much of the Holy Land. Of course, it will never be possible to reach the perfect agreement of all parties. I think maybe there's some kind of ideologies that would be best. But America's interests, nature's interests, and future interests are in order to keep this in our hands, for example, part of the country needs to be protected, to maintain, to the level of vegetation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u80	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's answer is to discuss this with him. Today, Iceland's High School of Economics has made a report about a year old, discussing the effects of reservations on neighboring areas. This is an interview study in which 16 interviews were conducted that turned to a Lake cold national park and discussed with those interested in it; local members, tourism companies, job development partners, landowners, and employees. It asked questions about dealing with those ruling in that national park. It shows that many fear commands and bans, and they want more consultations with the local people at all levels of peace descriptions in general. The red thread of all those interviews is deep - seated distrust, which is generally described as referring to those who come to the rule of national parks and nature generally from a distance. We see in this study only that in our existing national parks and in peaceful areas, there are areas where pots are broken. I've got to say, yeah. A senator, that I think it simply indicates that the steps are shaken. And is it not true, as the situation is today, that we take ourselves in and do much better in the areas we have already declared peace? Correct what has failed, including in communication, but let's not start another national park and go back into this process, where there is a deep - seated disagreement in communication and so forth. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is it not proper to focus on that, huh? A senator who has already been made the national parks that have already arrived and the areas of peace - torn rather than of starting another park? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u81	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson for the second answer. I think the discussion was pretty good. Otherwise, I'm not going to speak on behalf of the highest. Minister and is not his special spokesman in this matter. A respectable minister can speak for himself. I'm just trying to tell you that men were looking for landing, and the present bill is its offspring. In case of a moment. A senator claims to have information that consultations were not sufficient, then they will be given their own coverage on the environment and transport committee. This will make it possible for the changes needed to be made in the light of these changes. No doubt there will be reviews. A respectable senator says that there is deep distrust. It's only that way with the people that we're very alert when some changes occur. It's suspicious of change. I have information on the Snæfellsnes reservation, and I believe that there has been a complete transition in both nature and tourism, as well as the development of employment with tourists. There's been a complete transition. I think I know it's not what it's all about. Minister, i.e. this business connection, it's natural and it's allowed to enjoy itself better in the long future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u82	Madam President. We're here to discuss a big, big case, and it's been interesting to be observing a language here at the outset, especially the driving force. The members of the Independence Party and the forward party who have come up here giving talks that they are opposed to this matter. It does raise questions about why they did not stop the matter at an earlier stage, which they could easily have done, simply because this case had not been in the government covenant, so they would not have allowed all the way into the chamber where they are going to run away from responsibility. Sure, the left green pulls the wagon in this and gets the prospective members of the Conspiracy and the restorations to get the case through. I have to say, Madam President, that I feel that the behaviour of independence and the candidate in this matter is very strange, not to have opposed the fact that the case would come in here, but to intend to escape signals when it arrived here. Their responsibility is now considerable in this matter. It is true that they keep the matter in mind. This is especially true for my rural communities, whose territory is at peace. Iceland's highlands are truly priceless nature, I think we can all agree on that, with the vast diversity, the landscape, and the vast uninhabited regions. Of course, these are of great value to the nation. Attraction, of course, will increase over the years. I think it's perfectly clear. But I do not see the need to make the highlands a national park. Besides, I don't see that it can make a difference in the restoration of tourism, like the highest level. Environment Minister has said. Surely, the restoration of our tourism is of utmost importance to us, waiting for that restoration to begin, and hopefully it will soon become a new year. But I don't see that there was very little reasoning in this discussion that a highland park was important in this regard. It has shown that environmental Ministers' plans are being made in opposition to localities that have an interest in them. Then these plans are in opposition to the independence of the groups spent in the Constitution. To handle the matter in this way is to oppose it. It is not the least about the organizational authority of the rural communities and their authority by National Social Affairs. It cannot be overlooked. I specifically mentioned that the rural communities in the South have expressed their opposition to the plans. I said it in answer to what. paritaprevir Brjánsson just before that I have new information that despite environmental Ministers'claims that this was not enough for me to communicate with the rural communities. They don't know what it's like. And it is true that it is here, and it is important to have it reformed. I know that rural society in this area will deliver its declaration shortly. If I go only to the Blue Forest Company it requires plans for the establishment of a national park for environmental assessments and the evaluation of environmental factors, including society, environment, culture, costs, etc. There is a need to evaluate factors in which neither consultation nor analysis of its advantages nor failings to establish national parks. At the early level, the Blue Forest has produced comments to all the suggestions of this transnational committee on unique focus factors and elements. The development of a park in the Middle East, just as the bill was expected, repeated its earlier comments by the development of a national park in the Middle East. Key comments made by the local community are that the intervention of rural planning bodies is too high, as management and protection programmes for further rural planning programmes and that the management of rural areas within them will not be sufficient compared to the projections in the country's initiatives. The Blue Forest establishes past doubts about promises of capital and expected income and continues to point to the twin skin that is, on the other hand, based on views of peace and protection, environmental and climate, and, on the other hand, the view of national economic practicality that is involved in creating strong labels that attract a number of people. That refers to the brand of product in the park. It is also noted that the public's bioavailability towards national land areas will be limited by reimbursement and increased control. This will be expected to reduce the contribution of volunteers who have so far contributed to plant protection and healing, meaning and service to those in the area. Then, in the United States, the Blue Forest Company makes comments to the minister's widely distributed sources in order to set limits, peace descriptions, and so on. This is very clear, Madam President. There's a community that knows a lot about these matters, and now they should listen carefully to their comments and have good cooperation with the local community, which has been lacking. The review of the bill has shown, and especially by the local communities, that the matter has not been discussed in consultation. Of course, it's not good enough work, as I've come in here on, and don't preach good. Trust is important in such matters as this, that between the state and the community, trust exists. The communication between national parks and major stakeholders has been examined in American studies, as I did in the past. These include a study of 420 people. One year of participation was based on three large national parks. It shows that the following things are considered most important if there is no trust: that the heads of national parks are open to the contribution of local people, that there is respect for culture, employment, and shelter, for direct and informal communication with the local people, and that the park's management should be undertaken professionally and firmly. Also noted in foreign studies, it is important that there be a personal trust between local people and national parks directors. Also, it is important what could be called systematic trust, i.e. to be used in a reasonable, transparent process of making decisions. It is a process that is expected to be followed when a park is created. I think, Madam President, it is necessary to mention this here because the way it has been done with this case just doesn't know good. Conspiracy has been a success in preparing the case. Of course, it is reprehensible if the government and the community do not agree on this agreement. V.E.G. Environment Minister has said that he has consulted and that he has adjusted the points that the communities could not accept. On the other hand, if you talk to your local communities about this, they don't know what they're talking about. Here is some broken pot that must be found at the progress of the case within the committee. More research has been made on trust and communication when it comes to the establishment of national parks and national peace lighting. Iceland's High School of Economics made one such study and published a report in December, or just a year ago, on nature protection and rural development and the effects of protected areas on neighboring areas. The Agency made a study of a total of 16 interviews that turned to a Water Saffron National Park and was discussed with those of interest, such as partners, tourism companies, employment partners, landowners and the current and former staff of the National Park. Both the park's good and bad influence, its main opportunities and threats, and the way the respondents sensed the communication of a park with its people. It has to be stated, as it is, that in this interview study, many people fear commands and bans and want more consultations with the local people at all levels of decision-making. Deep - seated distrust is the red thread that goes through all these interviews. It is said that it is generally referred to those who come to the rule of the park, and to nature protection in general, from a distance. There are serious words, and they must consider within the committee. If it is the red strand in the dealings of the park leaders and the peaceful regions with the locals, we are in a real difficulty. I think it's enough to get back that trust rather than to spend the effort to create another national park. It is proper to note that this study shows that there is much greater pleasure in interacting with employees in the area in which they live and in personal contact with the inhabitants. You're right to follow along, too. The interviewers even referred to it. that, according to the original idea, the park should not have been a kingdom of the State. That's exactly what I think happened in these matters, and people are really afraid that it's going to be a kind of state in the state. It should have been working with the local people, being a kind of force in the community. If the householder's answers are understood, it seems that the general view of returning to the local population has not been reached. They fear that there is a state of sorts. We're supposed to listen to this. Research is designed to examine people's attitude toward certain issues. This is a professional way of doing so. It is necessary, Madam President, that the committee should go to the stitches of this report and see that a pot is clearly broken in this relationship. I think that in this case it exactly happened that when it comes to consultation, a pot is broken in its dealings with stakeholders, locals, and those closest to the project. That is not good enough, and that is not likely to work. I've said it again and again, and I tell you that we are supposed to spend more time working on communication and reconciliation with the locals to the peace-infested areas that are already there and the national parks that have already been established. There's a lot to fix. I mention, for example. It's just our national park that loves the Thieves. [[The president calls.]] There are many things to be fixed. [[The president calls.]] I don't think that it's time and not wise. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u83	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Birgir's Þórarinsson speak of profound suspicion, deep distrust. I can't quite figure out what to do with it. A senator means and where there is deep distrust. He may be able to explain it better. Since I know the best of things, on Snæfellsnes, as mentioned earlier, it's a pleasure of the operation. It has been a completely different source of service. In the area that did not exist before, there has been a full - wound operation. In the past, those were summer jobs and part - time jobs, but now they have even managed to recruit people throughout the year. Areas have been opened up for tourists they have enjoyed throughout the year. We are linking this tourist service to which we may, however, do not have to. Let's take our land and nature and the environment out of parentheses. The most important thing is that we are, or are not, going into the future. We are adding weights to the balance of defending unmoved nature. That's what I'm talking about. A senator would not agree that we need to plan and protect our country, protect it, and direct people in the right direction? In view of the fact that we are and want to be counted as a tourist nation, and are we going to receive perhaps a million tourists or two each year, is it not necessary for us to plan ahead and set matters straight?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u84	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Guðjón of Brjánsson's son for an excellent answer. I want to state that I have nothing against national parks. Hv. A senator mentioned here before, especially a Snæfells National Park, and I've been traveling around it. There are many outstanding things to do and the joy of arriving there. But what I have stressed in my presentation is that I simply believe that the creation of a highland park is not timely. We're just supposed to take care of what we already have, do it well, and improve what needs to be fixed. This year - old report makes it clear that in the Lake Earth's global park, many pots, including pots, are being broken. interacting with the locals. The local people must have a perfect peace of mind on these matters. That's a big part of success. I have to say, we have just a lot of work to do in what has already been declared peaceful, and we're supposed to work on improving the things in it. I'd like to say something special, OK? A senator, the finance. Now it is clear that government funds will not be as effective in the coming years as possible because of the huge debt collection that he has had to go to because of the virus epidemic. Money will be limited to national parks in general and many more government agencies. Like I say, what? Senator: We are to do what we have already done. I don't think it's time to destroy the demands of starting another park. [[The president calls.]] I can't see that the highlands are in special danger. [[The president calls.]] Has it not worked just fine, as we have been, and enjoyed those who have gone around the highlands and have taken good care of it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u85	Madam President. I like it. A senator at times reminds me of a well - known character from the spa. It's out and out. He has nothing against national parks, but he just doesn't want this park. He wants to emphasize and understand that we are going to build this country as a tourist country, but doesn't need anything? We know that by the end of the last Deluge, the land was under tremendous pressure, and we all had power. Some say that they already see it because we weren't prepared for it. We are trying to organize the land, whether it's good or bad, to get things done. It may not be that all of us Icelanders in many ways, but there are strong opinions on this matter. We know that. That's a lot of emotion, so do we. They are primarily those who have used the lands in their own way, even a person's way of life, who have rich views and wants to be taken into account. It's very normal, and I think the bill reflects it in part. Hv. One senator noted that we may not be able to be able to spend much of our money to build up in the years to come. That's right. I think you're absolutely right about what you're doing. Senator. But it was true of the highest. A minister this morning that the experience of other nations, both of Atlantics, is that these areas make income, attract people, and then we need to prepare the territory for it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u86	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. I'd like to start by correcting him for the fact that I cut off and in my lawsuit. I've been very clear in my language. It means that we should take good care of what we have already declared peace. There's a lot of pots broken in that stuff. Of course, it costs money, and they are limited, as I went over and over. A senator agreed. So I haven't been out of it and in this case. I'm a follower of national parks, but I don't see the point of starting another park. Hv. A senator spoke of getting things wrong. Is the highlands in some sort of trouble? I don't know about that. I think it's just fine, and it's totally cool with the way it is right now. Those who travel in the highlands enjoy it. It's a wide range that's very special and influential. I can't see that something is wrong in that regard. Farmers are making up the country in cooperation with land healing and are doing a great deal of volunteer work there. I can't quite figure out what this is all about. Senator. I believe we have enough of what we already have and that we are to take care of it much better than we have done, and to work better cooperation and consultation with the locals than to bring here an issue that is controversial and that has not been sufficiently discussed. We'll see. There's no denying that. This is my case, okay? Senator. I just don't think it's time. That's my conclusion and I won't disappear from it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u87	Madam President. I think it's time, long time, and I support it. I think it is a long time that the people are endeavoring to organize these vast areas of value that will never be measured in crowns and pennies. I think it's time to set up a park there, and I don't see a park as some kind of appeal or effort to overmanage or something like that. A national park is in my mind a covenant between all of us, a covenant between our community and the state, a contract between its farmers, its townspeople, a covenant between the outdoor people who know the highland and enjoy themselves there for all their leisure time, and the public who seldom and never come there. It is a covenant between all of us, wherever we live and whatever our position is toward the highlands, a covenant that this land should be guided by protection, and it should be protected by means of practical guidance, the protection and usefulness of itself in a fertile and impregnable way. There are many who love this region, and it is not surprising. Many worry that this will be run from a desk in Reykjavík, where people who have the main interest of shutting down and declaring and wanting to rule the free mountain countries that want to go through there and find the dignity of the mountains. It is not surprising that such concerns will arise, and there will be more conversation between people. Still, I view national park as closing, not closing, but opening. To me, a park was about to open this area, this sanctuary - spoken of as a reclusive sanctuary in the poem ▪ The Spanish song in a pagan language, by Steingrímur Thorsteinsson - and is a sanctuary in the minds of many of the Icelanders. But I feel that it is a worthwhile project not only to control our transmission and traffic but also to find ways to open up this area to all of us, so we can all enjoy the beauty and power that are there. This requires structure, and it requires careful and careful planning. They need funding, and they need professionalism. I believe a national park is a prerequisite for all of these conditions. We're talking here about 40% of the land's area and some of the largest non-inhabited area in Europe. We are talking about individual nature, which has no equal value as well as many of nature's memories as well as historical memory, culture, and areas that are extremely important to protect and protect. We're talking about preserving the experience in this area, which is just about to experience a place of solitude, living the quietness, living the desolation, living the silence, and feeling the way you mix up with the natural world in some way that doesn't happen anywhere else. This will only be kept in the way I underlined earlier, professionally, and capitally. Naturalists will have much to do with this. Criticism of this bill is not merely from sources who want a different condition regarding authority and use. It will also come from those who will see that the bill expects traditional crops, i.e. continued application at sensitive sites. It also refers to potential new power activations in peripheral areas, although it is, in fact, that the activations become increasingly remote to most people. In view of their management, you may think that it may be somewhat higher, it is a fairly high leveld administrative arrangement in the bill that could possibly be. doubts can be expressed. Earlier in this discussion, there was a general agreement with a national park; a Scenario, even not so well. The members of the Central Party were able to criticize, and it seems that they were very successful until then. There are also ways to handle matters in the Þingalva National Park, as well as how the national park in Tuttill was controlled for years. However, criticism of arrangements has been made in the Lake Earth park and perhaps in the future. Maybe there's a warning there, which I think might have been more important than building this bill. A report by Government Review on the activities of the Earth's Lakes National Park found criticism of government there. It even says, by permission of the president: The effectiveness of the Lake Earth is widely distributed, and the independence of the management areas is high in staff and other management factors are high. Under such circumstances, it is important that the Agency's central management organization is strong and can provide needed support and support. The weaknesses of central management administration in human resources and monitoring of budget, management and national contracts have had a negative impact on the overall functioning of the park. It also says, by permission of the president: The Water Force for the Earth's Earth's Earthly Nation is more complex and complex than most citizens. The need to ensure that authority boundaries and channels are clear and ensure that management of the national parks in general is in place with responsibility for the practical, efficient and effective use of the funds provided for the work. It is important that we counteract the weaknesses of the multicultural system of things. The bill assumes that there will be a director and then there will be 11 members, and then districts for each area, and it is, in fact, kept under control that the rural communities have an ever greater share in this. This may lead to chaos. But I don't want to be a pain in knowing this, but I think it's a good reason for us to think about how we're doing this government. However, I still feel that with the establishment of a national park in the middle of the country, it is taking a very important and important step to protecting Iceland and it is being opened up to the public access to this area and to ensure that access. The long - term benefits of both the nation, nature, and the surrounding areas are being maintained, and tourism is being established in the highlands. This would be the largest national park in Europe, and unfathomable potential for marketing and international presentation as a vast and precious region of nature. They're ensuring the preservation of a lot of natural food. Madam President. I want to end this by witnessing to what author Jón Kalman writes in a more recent newspaper article that includes. ... aboutthiscase. He says, with President's permission: ▪ The land is the sharing of all of us, and in the large context, the perfect secondary factor is whether we have sheep or not; whether we have gone for search or not; we may be able to girt or not. No one in the highlands, but all of us are responsible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u88	Madam President. Thank you. A senator who was fine, especially the final words, was especially good when he quoted my dear friend, Jón Kalman Stefánsson. It was a pleasure, and I appreciate it. A senator for that. I wanted to ask you why. A senator and a little review of what he said in his talk, but I felt that there was a paradox in his speech. In this fine speech, a member of the body said. He discussed preserving this experience. I agree that coming to the highlands is a real experience. He spoke of silence and quietness, and he put it all very well, and in a poetic way, as is his hope and direction, and it was a pleasure to listen to it. But at the same time, there was a sharpness. A senator says we're opening up the highlands and we're getting close to travelling, and we're increasing the number of tourists into the highlands with this park. Isn't that a little paradox? Senator? Is this experience, this stillness, not in danger when we open it like this, like a whale. A senator stressed, and at the same time, the number of tourists? I felt that there was a little paradox in a talk. A senator and I would love to have his explanation of that. So the question is, are we opening something that is closed? Isn't the highland open?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u89	Madam President. Yes, we are always in the paradox center, our lives are all a paradox, and especially how we conduct it and organize access to such an area. The highlands are open, but they vary in size. Not all of us have these things that are enough for us to get there or access to them. As I can see this, it is the only difficult and great work that awaits us all and waits for the nation to set matters up in the highlands so that it can be made possible - and it is the natural democratic right of all of us - to go up to the highlands and enjoy what it has to offer, while making traffic so possible, will be directed so that it will succeed in preserving this calm and this dignity and paganity. I think we have to sort out how to make such a traffic. It cannot be started just because traffic is going to increase. There will be new instruments that make it easier for people to travel to the highlands, and there will be new groups, and new travelers will come. And then must be--and I'll just apologize for using such an ugly word: it must be some kind of media control. There must be some control of this traffic. There can't be some kind of crisis. We do not want that. We don't want to see the crowded and crushed in this temple, and I know what it is. I agree with a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u90	Madam President. Thank you. A senator and I agree with him on that. He's right. I don't think this value will go through the courtyards, i.e. The stillness and experience of going through the highlands. I once traveled through a desert in Jordan, called Wadi Rum. I felt a lot of stillness there, and it was a wonderful experience, just like the highlands of Iceland. There they traveled in camels. There was no organization, yet this preservation was completely present. I think there's a danger of that, and why. The senator mentioned in his speech that there would be an increase, there would be more traffic, and then I think this experience is in danger. I can't see and I haven't heard the news that there is some mess in the highlands in traffic. Hv. A senator rightly mentioned that there must be a conversation and more conversation. I'm glad he feels that way. That is exactly what has been lacking in this matter, conversation with those who have an interest in it. Hv. A senator mentioned a covenant, and all of this is exactly right. Hence, it is imperative that humans recognize that they failed to achieve this reconciliation. There is a need to review this matter in the basement of the Committee. I don't agree, however, that we've done well in the matter of all peace - related territory. It's certainly done well on Snæfells, but, for example, it's done well. I don't agree with the Third Law. There are many things to be fixed there, e.g. Association, parking lot, stuff like that. [[The president calls.]] That's a lot of money. So instead of being expanding, why don't we just focus on what has already come, put our resources on it, and put them in danger of something we've discussed here? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u91	Madam President. I don't know exactly what to answer here. Was a what? A senator suggesting we're going to use camels to go up to the highlands here in Iceland? I know that the members of the Central Party are headed underground and realize that there will be a lot of climate change and it's getting hotter and hotter, but I think there's something in the country that we're gonna catch them by far. We need other vehicles to get to the highlands, and the road to the highlands will increase, and tourists will come back here, and they will be organized. Then it's important that there's a box we can call a National Park, I think a park is a beautiful word. It is guided by professionalism by planning this tourism and making money available, and it provides a means of building, which is guided by the protection of these delicate nature. This is the key thing to my mind. We must not lose sight of it in such a rush, for which we Icelanders find so much delight and are quite good at it at times. We must not become distracted by what may be led along by agents who feel that they are losing some form of space from their peninsula, which is usually based on misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u92	Madam President. We're here to discuss a bill of the highest order. Environment Minister for the establishment of a highland park. My position on this matter is simple: No, I think it's all too big a step to take now. I think, for example. to gain more experience in the affairs of great national parks, such as Lake lagoon parks, and to use them experience to prepare for the next step in developing national parks or national parks that I agree with. Of course, I'm all for taking care of our country, taking care of it, and protecting it as much as possible from man's efforts, but also for making wise use of it. The idea of my establishment is national parks in the middle of the country, e.g. before taking this step? If you look to the experience of a Lake Earth park, what are the facts about the operation of this great park? What is their attitude toward the great national park toward Jehovah? Is the cooperation that is taking place in such a fine way that the idea is properly extended as much as it really does in this bill? No, it doesn't look like it to me. If possible, the size of the park appears to be 30% or 40% of the country. It goes all the way. There is no compromise, as is sometimes said in the chess game. The whole area of Iceland is to be turned into one big step into a national park, thus setting the whole area upside down. I'm referring to all the fortresses and other projects; roads, lineworks, and windmill gardens that will have to be built down if this is what should come. Besides that, there is going to be another institution. All authority should be placed in the hands of government officials, with seating in the capital area, in these and other materials. Mr. President. Although it is like trying to cryptize some speeches, the opinion of the members of the board differs greatly. The members of the Independence Party and the Superintendent, who have expressed themselves on the subject here. It is not too deep in this year to say that there are very different opinions within these councils. But it may not, Mr. President, be enough. In fact, the environment, many of which feel that they have the exclusive rights of these matters and that many homes in the left green, rely on some of their associates who live in other categories and thus obtain a qualified number to flush this case through. Of course, the problem with the earlier management forces is that they signed this in the government covenant when there was much need to form a government with extensive appeal, as someone expressed it, and likely to all sides of politics. How they manage to avoid being responsible for this matter and to make the people believe that they must become aware of it, as well as whether people will accept it as convincing. A number of independent people are greatly involved in the matter. How they are able to endure them must be revealed in the spring months. Some candidates have a familiar attitude. They would like to have neither the case nor against it nor speak outside nor south to be understood as a follower but also against the matter. In the second word, candidates talk about promoting the local government level by expanding their rural communities, forcing much of the country's rural communities to unite, all to promote them, but in the second, they take part of the rural areas of their organizational authority by this bill coming from their fellow members in the government. They thus accept custody and planning from their rural communities in a different way than they claim to be building them in the other. In fact, I believe both cases are beginning to weaken the unit level. Both of these matters are taking place on the private rights of a community. No, Mr. President, you can't both be released and held. But what exactly hangs on the stick? I simply think that this is where followers of the case have a great need to adorn themselves. This would be the largest national park in Europe, and this label would outweigh everything else. Therefore, the case is to be run through in the final meters of the government, despite the overwhelming doubts of a number of government officials, as it has clearly been seen here today, and the great opposition of the local community that complains of incoherentness, pointing to the obvious failures in the preparation of the case, in particular, that it is not possible to see that the park will be run so well so well, that there is far far enough experience in the operation of the largest park that many think has been rather strange, and, in fact, much more that I will be involved in the future. That is how this huge case should be initiated, one third or more of the country's being built into a national park, with no access or experience to handle the situation. It's supposed to go through here, knowing that we don't have the opportunity to do it well. We don't have enough experience. We haven't been working on these matters for long enough to do so well. Still, it's to be taken care of. What is involved? It's only supposed to start with open eyes, even if they know the case is going to screw up. There's gonna be a lot of mistakes, and I don't think there's any protection in this area. I doubt it. I believe that we had a smaller step, a lower level of protection, and a little more experience with the national parks and national parks we have now, before we take such a big step. Mr. President. A considerable part of the community's planning is also being shifted to the management and protection plans that bind their hands on infrastructure and protection and use of these vast areas, thus leading to a new strategy for rural society. Who will be, for example. the arrival of rural society and landowner to local employment? It is more important to understand that employers need employment permission from the National Park administration to work in the area, regardless of the type of employment they are dealing with or what local opinions are involved. There's a lot of people out there running a business or doing things, like, like... Farmers, tourism, tourism, walking clubs, and a wide variety of amateurs and people. Mr. President, how's the discussion been in this case? Many discussions have been made. Actually, it has only been a presentation. There have been no indications from the rural community, but there have been many. Most people are opposed to the National Park currently. How's your e.g. have some suggested that this will take place during environmental assessment? How has that been handled before this institution becomes a reality? So has it been accomplished? No, Mr. President, in the face of such suggestions, many would be surprised if there were other projects. No, the purpose of the weekend. What will be the outcome of this case? When the area is controlled by distant governments in the city of Reykjavík, will it reduce the contribution of volunteers who have worked in these areas for decades, perhaps even longer, and new territory? Will people be willing to come there and put forth secular work or money to make up land or in some way improve the area? Sad to say, volunteers have avoided such things, and the government will have to put on this fortune, as if it were true. Everything the Kingdom does is far more expensive than when free partners, or amateurs, or landowners attack such projects, as there are examples in many parts of the area. They're supposed to create this, they're supposed to have this territory, they're going to control it. You may need permission or stamps to cross the area, and most likely all projects there will be, whether they are roads or lines, or fortresses or windmills, or whatever people have planned to use on this land that counts more than one third of Iceland, all of which will be allowed, and will pass through a system that will be formed around this park. Public access to land areas within the park is not to be limited by retrieving and increasing control. Regarding the local use rights, the management and fishing arrangement, it is not sufficient to say that these rights will be maintained and that they are already loyalty in a national country. Little wonder, though, that these parties are being very concerned about their interests, for all their previous orders are being overthrown in the highlands of Iceland. And what will be the cost, Mr. President? The setting up and operating of a national park of this magnitude calls for a great deal of money if it is to be handled well with regard to the structure of various facilities and functions. These include roads, markings, reporting problems, maintenance of possessions, and many more. Is the funding at hand? Has the funding been sufficient for the national parks we are already running? If a national park is to meet the expectations for employment and support of a farm, as it says, a project of this magnitude must be followed with a great deal of money. There must be a significant increase in funding for this project to respond to the expectations of increasing access and practical opportunities for outdoor activities and that most people can enjoy the national park, with significant support for local and monitoring, especially if tourists are drawn to the area and possibly, and expected, on a larger scale. Mr. President. Of course, once there is a national park, new fortresses will be harder to attack. Of course it will be. I'd like to point out that this is a third of the country, this is a third of Iceland. No, Mr. President, this is too much of a step to take at a time like now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u93	Mr. President. Today, the history of national parks is 156 years old, and at that time, there has been a great experience of success. I'm not entirely convinced that in this bill, all that experience will be taken into account and I'll discuss it afterwards. Hv. In his talk, a senator mentioned that there will be a mistake in the setting of a park. Of course you're right. When we take on something new, we are almost always made a mistake. However, I wondered, in view of the fact that, unfortunately, all the health systems of the world are much younger and can be applied this warning to them, if we had known that there would be potential health - care errors, it would have been a reason not to start with it at the time. I don't think there's a chance of failure that there's a good reason not to start a park. If we make a mistake by oversupervising the area, we might be able to back it up and correct it. Perhaps something could be learned along the way, adding to the vast knowledge that has been collected through 156 years of mankind's history about national parks. Is it not okay to make a small mistake if the conclusion is that it will improve for all Icelanders and the rest of mankind in the long run?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u94	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for these speculations or questions, mostly about mistakes, I think. When I mentioned in my speech that there was a mistake, I really meant that we were taking a big step. I think I've been able to explain this in my speech. We're taking a big step according to the experience we have. We have very little and very little experience with national parks operating, like Lake Seven-City Park. I don't remember how old he is, but there's very little experience. We haven't run a national park for a very long time, not at the magnitude of what Lake Earth is, and far from what we're going into now. My words can be understood that way. A senator, that we have open eyes to go too far and far beyond our ability. That's what I mean when I talk about mistakes. This is a big mistake. This is not some small mistake that, of course, will become the business of all things. Rather, we are knowing to go too far, far beyond what I think would be wise to do at this time. I think it's much wiser to expand available national parks, such as Lake lagoon parks, get more experience, get better at it, promote and develop interaction with the local rural communities, and interact with all the peoples that are there than to go so far. That's only what I mean when I talk about mistakes. We're going way too far.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u95	Mr. President. I tried to listen carefully, and I waited to hear reasons for that stand. In fact, I heard nothing more than vengeful and limitless conservativeness. According to the few arguments I heard in a talk. Because we had no knowledge or experience with such a operation, a senator could not have started with the medical system. We had no experience with road systems at the time or with what else we have in this country. I am quite open to many reasons against this park, but saying that we don't know how to do this is a really bad argument when we know we have all the means to learn. To say that no one knows how to do this is obviously wrong when we know there are parks that are considerably larger than this one, e.g. correspondent in the United States There have been national parks for 156 years and knowledge and experience. You can react in this country by taking advantage of the knowledge that has been established there. I'm not saying it's gonna be easy, I'm not saying it's gonna be perfect and I'm not saying everyone's happy about it. On the contrary, there is plenty of evidence against the present purpose. But I just want to ask who. Again: Is he really saying that me and the Icelanders are somehow incompetent as a nation that we cannot take on a grand task because we don't know and have to wait and build up experience for tens of years? Is that all we can do about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u96	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator once again asked these questions. His second question may have been a little more direct. He says I've shown infinite restraint. That's exactly what I didn't do. I said, "This is a very careful development. " I said we should expand our current national parks, mainly Lakeland parks, let time work with us, and get experience in cooperation with our local rural communities, in cooperation with all the parties that come into the area, tourism, tourism, landowners, farmers and the rest of these. There have been conflicts in the present system, but it is much less than a park and a whole new region than there is. Of course, when I talk about experience, I'm not talking about being incompetent as a nation, such as hell. A senator put it, that's his word. I'm not talking about it at all. I'm talking about getting some experience, letting time work with us. A person who cannot master his bicycle is not put as a driver on a car. It's just not like that. This has some sort of development, and that's what I'm talking about. We have done wonderful things as a nation, and I have no doubt that we can do much better in these matters, i.e. Protection of the country. Likely, all of us will agree that we are to protect the land. We're all in favor of nature's protection. But we need to learn from experience, we need to take time to do the same. We're not supposed to go on like this, as I think this case might be a good example.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u97	Mr. President. We'll discuss the establishment of a highland park. This is evident from the large number of members of Parliament who comment on 1 Corinthians. And I will wait to speak before the matter is referred to the proper treatment, that this is a significant matter of heat. In fact, the discussion here reflects the discussion in the community. All of us senators, especially us sitting on our knees. The Environment and Transport Committee has received an enormous number of written applications, formal and informal; phone calls, meeting requests, encouragements, etc. These talks, phone calls, meeting requests, encouragement, and letters have been all sorts of things. I'll find out a little bit later. In the Treaty of the Government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, the establishment of a highland park is one of the priorities. Two former governments had explored grounds for such an assignment and emphasized the added protection in this area. It might be nice to go over that timeline. It was 2016 - in spite of all the events that took place only four years ago - a national park set up in the central highlands. It was during the reigns of a forwarding party and an independent party. One year later, during the deliberation of an independent party, a restoration, and the Bears'future, there was further talk of the protection of the central highlands in a government contract. The existing government will then make it very clear in the government covenant to establish a national park. That was the case. A commission was given to the members of the Parliament, a transnational committee, and a representative of the local government and the Ministry, to carry out this matter of the government. Just a year ago, that committee returned a report and a proposal to minister. The committee had been appointed around the time of the year. 1 and 6 months earlier, in April 2018, I sat on behalf of the Assembly Hall of the Archipelago. The above mentioned was intended, not to discuss how a park should be formed, but how it would be done. Her missions included. to define the boundaries of the park, to emphasize the division of land within its reservations and to deal with possible routes, regional division, territory, and service centres. At that time, she was aimed at making suggestions for key priorities in the management, protection and employment policies of the national park, and then the legislation that includes The park's governance would be taken into consideration. It may be quite difficult for a member of the government to take a stand on a committee that has the commission not to investigate a question but directly to carry it out. Initially the commission was to work on a bill on the subject, but after the discussions within the committee, when it was started, it was changed, normal. Other than that, I have just one thing about the work of the Committee to say. We had extensive consultations, and the work was very transparent. I enjoyed and benefited greatly from the work being done there. Then, in the fall of the year, members of the committee took their position on whether they wanted to be on the report, which is a product of the Committee. I took the stand to be on after the Commission's processing period presented my views and restoration. Those comments followed, including: that the funding of a highland national park and how important it would be for the project to be properly financed and built there on experience and learning from the management of other national parks and peaceful areas of the country. Other comments suggested that the sector's sector and sectoral activities, people's movements around the area, different travel distances, rural pals, and a number of activities involved in the interaction of nature protection and innovations. We have always spoken of the importance of the responsible use of our country's resources together with a more efficient nature protection. We want to make it possible for the public to enjoy the treasure available to Icelandic nature and to hunt, as well as to increase respect for the land and thus contribute to better association. At the same time, it is the thought of strengthening locally, creating employment, and setting up a wide range of research, increasing openness, and linking people with one another. It has been our guide, not just our approach to this matter, but the general environment. Like a number of Icelanders, I have been a traveler in foreign parks and have enjoyed it very much. These factors have come together as I have experienced and know best, i.e. Natural protection and tourism experience along with job structure. In the past year since the Parapolitan Committee returned its report, and the Environment Minister of the Environment saw the day a few days later, a community discussion has shown me that there is something lacking in us to be in that place here. The second part of December, in the same month as the report was complete, was proposed to include the prime minister of the Environment on the Highland Park. There were more than 70 envelopes, formally as informal, of the bills, and since then they have certainly not declined. Critics in the discussion that followed were many, most notably from the ranks of the government groups, as interesting as it is today. Now I'm not saying that within the governments there may not be any difference of opinion on this matter, certainly not, but we may have reached the point that I really care about in this context, and that is the court case. Only on the criticisms first. It was not to begin with, especially, that the park would severely impair the planning of the rural communities at the edge of the proposed national park, restricting their custody of land within the borders of the rural society. There were also reports that the rural administrations of smaller rural communities would be too much for them to control because they had the opportunity to appoint more part of the government, both the national park and then the management partners of the park, thus having great power compared to other field members; farmers, tourism, and nature and environmental organisations. If any were to disagree with the national administration, for example, it would be. The inhabitants of urban areas who have no authority over this land that is supposed to be their share. As time went on, other voices began to be prominent, especially from the ranks of tourists who considered the case, as it was suggested, cutting down their professional sector. Others who have interests about employment have also been loud, especially farmers. When this is summed up, a particular theme of criticism can be heard. It can be divided into a regional and central control. When this theme is added to the fact that we, in my opinion and in our attitude, have not been sufficiently developed to become united among the people, perhaps it is time to pause. When we take up the situation today when the case is signed for Congress, it is sort of that many of us enjoy traveling, staying, or working in the middle of Iceland's highlands. It is a large group that has become an expert in the highland park and its affairs and, in fact, wherever you come, people are arguing, even arguing about the national park, but perhaps not least the idea of the national park they feel is setting up. An uninformed image of this creates a sense of insecurity and uncertainty. The fact is, in the minds of many, the picture is very vague. It has to be said that if it is that it was the intention of the three independent groups, the left green and forward, to contribute this huge and important matter in some way so that everyone is calming in the same direction, work together that the better go, take everyone's interests into account, put themselves in the footsteps of others, etc. as is done when things are working on to make peace, and if it was meant to use time as the rest of the term, it has failed. It can also be turned around and said that if the conduct of individual executives and how they have approached the matter is secret and clear during the election period, there may not be any intention of looking for reconciliation. And we're standing here. I believe that the highest. It is tragic to experience what I see in my life, that the government is losing this important opportunity, the opportunity to bring order to our highlands, and the countryside that is most influential. It's too big and too important to force it off because it's not exactly needed. We need more people to feel that they are really sharing in the benefits of the project, of the future affairs of the highlands. The discussion needs to grow in the community before we finish it here. Thus governments are working on national agreements as such. We need to keep focus on what is important, protection of the environment and nature, changing its bioavailability to the natural bulbs we have and respect for the knowledge of the inhabitants of the more widely distributed land on their surroundings. You see, it is important to establish a powerful national structure. National parks are not just important because of nature's protection, they can be the basis for progress, for valuable creation, for the basis of employment creation, if the right thing is right. In the case as it is assigned here, Witnesses for a slight leadership and central management disorder in the process, which is these three governments, such as not entirely unknown. Mr. President. The results of a work group on a review of the 2013 Water Savvy Nation Management Organization showed that cooperation with a strategist, especially in the vicinity of the national park, is a success. If they fail at first, it is difficult to rebuild trust. That's why I don't necessarily think we can pull out, finish this, then rewind it and fix what's gone wrong. I just don't see the need for it. Communicate work in a lakeland nation is doing well in areas where the local government has been very interested in doing something about this, taking up opportunities and creating something, and where companies and individuals who have seen the value in national parks and opportunities for themselves have been able to share this vision with governments and influence them. That's how it works. Our highlands are not going anywhere. It is in good hands at the moment, even in the eyes of most people who truly want to see this highland park become a reality. It is difficult to rewind and build up the sync if it is stopped in a large unit. We learned about the review of the Environment Ministry of Management of the 2013 Lakejörður National Park. This does not pay from what has come and from the way time has been spent over the past three years, rushing too quickly. History shows this and assessment confirms this. The very best edition is the next time the park's economists and neighbors see its place, participate in its institution, influence evolution. This is what we have to aim for. Now I'm impressed. The Environment Minister and the government all wonder whether the big issue here is really going to be a factor of a long, incomplete list of projects to be able to check into a box or whether it is possible to stop and work on this institution in a way that is a waste of time and that the park is living from the start to the value of all parties, long and short. Today, individuals and individual groups need to put aside their zeal and recognize the need for guidance. At least that will be my guide for work. The environment and transport committee, which get this important and positive issue to be taken care of after the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u98	The President kindly reminds us of the language of labeling or checking because the matter is Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u99	President. It's a big day. A bill on the establishment of a highland park has come to the Generalis. I have personally participated in conferences for this important issue. I'm like... A memorable protest made by Andri Snær Magnason and a Björk Guðmundsdóttir of music at 2015, when they announced a press conference in the Old Movie at the time of the music festival Iceland Airweaves. They used that scene to deliver the message about the importance of protecting the highlands with the global press. Together with the park, they declared that it was an important goal to set up a national park in the middle of the country to protect Iceland's wilderness. So it is a joy to see that the matter is scheduled for the council and for the community. It may be expected that the matter will be brought to the attention of international bison will be established within the council. It is noteworthy that this idea has often been discussed at the Arctic Circle conference in which northern issues are leading. Looking forward to the future, it is always important to keep in mind how things have been and have developed in recent years. The number of tourists in Iceland has increased dramatically, although this situation is certainly on the rocks as it is due to Covid. Travelers have increasingly searched Iceland's highlands and have shown greater interest in the area. At the same time, we will see that the world's unorthodox condition is becoming increasingly rare. Increased flows of information and modern technology through community media are in some ways unpredictable to tourists. Experience in other spheres of nature shows that it is important to nurture unspoiled spheres of nature. If we have been taught something by history, we need to use discernment in these matters. We need preventive measures. This is true of this party as well as for many others here at the council. President. The aims of the establishment of a highland park have been well torn in this discussion tonight, in nature protection, in the organization, and in the opportunities of the project. This has been discussed, such as. The landscape, indeed, that the national park would be a global one. But the primary and most important objective in my opinion is the protection of nature itself and its history. Icelandic nature is one of the most priceless things in the world. If this bill becomes reality, it will be the largest national park in Europe. It's about nature. It's also about the man himself. In today's elated world of technology, its speed and its noise, the silences will become more precious and precious over time and the resources themselves. Enjoying the silence can only be a vaccine to challenge today. Art and culture have been heavily exposed to Iceland's nature, and nature has been important in the nation's arts since its beginning. We know well most paintings of the land and nature, music about nature, literature connected with nature, both directly and where nature itself represents the life of man. Nature is important to man. Author Ófeigur Sigurðsson wrote the book Destiny, which is like a Mass for Iceland and the wilderness itself. The fact that this matter is finally on the program for the council, and in this hall, there may well be evidence that the necessary long - term thought is finally to survive some serious aspect of Iceland's design and environment. I think, for example. It is likely that future generations will thank us if we have the wisdom to make this possible. Often I have not, even though Iceland and I appreciate the country as we should have done, and as foreign visitors do. Yet, during the last summer, a change could be seen when the nation was as kind as forced to travel within the country because of the pandemic. I believe in many ways that this journey has further opened our eyes to this precious pearl that we possess. A review of the matter has been made here in the Hall of Congress tonight and ever since it was spoken in Icelandic society. I think it's going to work. The environment and transportation committee where I have an audience seat. I expect that there will be some careful and objective treatment for the development of all views. At least we'll remember share in it yourself. I'm just going to read up our environmental policy on Pirata, with the permission of a president: It will be an environmental guide in the country of Iceland. In recent decades, it has been realized that mankind is going to a great deal on earth's resources and nature, with the expected disastrous consequences for future generations. Responsible association with nature and sustainable use of resources is essential for priorities. Let us take full note of the international standards and agreements in the environment and allow the natural world to enjoy the doubt. As mentioned earlier, some criticism has taken place during the discussion tonight. That's normal. But I'm going to end this number with the words Stefánsson by author Jón Kalman Spánsson during his speech the other day at a seminar for the establishment of a highland park. My late grandfather often claimed that the Icelanders have an isolated people. A spirited finder on the subject of controversy, and each one of us so deeply convinced that we were right, that there was a drink of champagne in heaven and hell every time the Icelanders came to a common conclusion on one of the issues. This quality is as refreshing as it is to my grandfather, who eventually moved to Norway at the end of the 1960's, saying that life was too short to last forever. I hope at least that none of us can see the reason to move out of the country for the sake of overcoming this case, because it's just about the land itself, its nature and its extraordinary beauty. Let's keep Iceland's value together on this valuable subject that's on our table here at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u100	The President reminds us that the convention quoted is called the Icelandic Ringboard of the North, since the matter of Congress is Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u101	Mr. President. I've been waiting for this case for years, and I have to start by acknowledging that I would have liked to be able to support it firmly when it finally came out. Of course, I would've wanted it to come out sooner. I'm very much in favor of the idea of a highland park, but I'm impressed with this bill. I just hope that we have the good fortune to fix what's wrong with it because it's perfectly possible. I'm gonna take care of a few things. I'd like to put this into context first. Now, for some time, I've been very fond of ecology's ideas. Wilson, who has talked a lot about the idea of a so-called half-earth, i.e. that 50% of the earth's surface will be reserved for nature, that nature itself will enjoy the doubt, at least Half hers. This does not mean that the other half of the earth should not be protected by nature, but this half of the earth will be completely free of human damage as far as possible. Rather than divide the earth half by simple conditions, it is said to look to both land and sea for the enjoyment of ecosystems and for the enjoyment of diversity. That idea is no less insignificant than it really reflects the ideologies behind national parks from the beginning. Early ideas about national parks in modern form may be attributed to Georges Catlins, one of those who traveled through northwest America in some 1836. He saw the beauty of nature there and suggested that it be protected. In his writings, in my translation with the permission of the president, he said that with a highly important government protection program, there would be a park, a national park, for humans and animals of wild and fresh natural beauty. I find it remarkable, perhaps a thought, that he did not speak of unmoved nature. In modern times, there is no place on earth that is unmoved by humans. Yes, there are places that no human beings have ever visited, but the effects are common everywhere. This is especially true in the central areas of Iceland. Hence, when talking about forming national parks, we need to be a little clear about what we mean. What will we do? Is it to make sure that this wild, fresh beauty will exist forever? I'd say yes, preferably. Is the goal of stopping industrialisation and development? Yeah, definitely. Is it stopping natural manipulative or overuse of animals and plants, perhaps even freezing as little or nothing in the riverbeds and other water quality? Yeah, definitely. But is the goal of stopping traffic? That's a good question. There may be a certain truth revealed in the bill's object description that focuses on strengthening communities and strengthening jobs in the vicinity of the park, especially on the fact that the common people can live in the park and that people can learn about nature and its quality by traveling through it and enjoying what is there. I think that's the biggest stumbling block. Many in the community have already described opposition to the bill, but when you look closely, most of them are not necessarily expressing opposition to the goal of nature protection or national parks. They express concern about excessive rules, excessive administrative burden, overcredulous writing, too much disposal, and especially that the behavior of humans, which does not necessarily represent natural chats, and may, on the contrary, be a proper way of enjoying nature. People worry that they've gone too far. Here I think it's an opportunity to try to organize the area so that the normal behavior will not be blocked. Then we need to be careful that the park is first for nature and second for humans not only people who want to walk around and walk on mountains but also for people who want to drive along roads and for humans who want to fly around, even for humans who have found ways to enjoy nature but are bedting within the narrow rule spoken here. I think there are a number of stories that have already come to mind and many critics who have already been heard in the community and are trying to find some sort of moderate size. That's the point of what I want to share. It is true that 23 rural communities have an advantage there, but there are also a number of other rural societies and a number of people who live outside these 23 rural communities who are interested in nature but also because they have the freedom to go through it and enjoy what it is. If we find a moderate measure, if we find the right rhythm, then I guess we can't quite settle. Some may have plans to activate, industry, and build, cutting down this foul and fresh natural beauty. I don't give much for that. But we need to look to all the other viewpoints, especially since nature itself has become a limited resource worldwide. Perhaps it is all right to mention in this context that over the last 120 years here in the north, the seven warmest years have been the last seven years. Thus, there is much to change, and the environment of the northern regions that we belong to is potentially irreversible. I'm not going to go into many material things of that criticism because I think my messages are clear. Since I suspect that there is a view that few people at council are likely to promote, I'd like to discuss only something I have a connection with, i.e. Flight. In the 18th. The bill has limited flight limits. I notice that there is a tendency to be moderate, but I feel that it can be done a little better. Then I'll look for 5 mg. 18th par. is said to require permission from the National Park on aircraft landings and helicopters outside the defined airports. It points out that an airport is determined in a field of law and that a list of registered landing sites and other airports are found in Istavia's Air Force. Actually, it is more correct to call it Iceland's Flying Handbook, or AIP. The book contains a wide range of runways within the area, including Lake of Cheers, Fortress and New Valley. However, the Air Force book also lacks many runways that have been used for decades to form explosions, Thorrisos, Nautilus, Try Island Falls, Hostage Lakes, Frostfields, Dimmunds, and so on. I'm worried if you don't open it and the rules changed today so that you can record the course, you have to go through a certain process that even covers. In him, I understand, a registration of the Association. If this does not change, the usefulness of these runways will be affected and certain rights that people have had outside of those areas, perhaps not by walking on mountains or by riding on mountains, but by crossing mountains. I would be very sad if those rights were lost. In addition, some in the flying community have expressed concern that there will be overflying rights in the area, as has been done with a Þjórður. As the president no doubt knows, there are seven - foot [600 m] high above sea level, which is nearly 2,000 feet [more than 5,000 feet] away, where it cannot be flown to less than 5,000 feet [5,000 m] high. In Iceland it is usually a 7,000 - foot - wide exchange level, which means there is a 2,000 - foot range gap in which, under normal circumstances, you can actually cross into horizons without being directly controlled by an aircraft area and such. This 3,000 - foot range may be pretty rough, especially when you see that many parts of the country are allowed to fly down to 500 feet [500 feet] across the country without doing anything. In the Red Sea, there are special situations. That's where it's about protecting and protecting bird life. It would be very harmful if this were to be applied to the entire international flight of Iceland. I hope that's not going to be done. I just wanted to introduce these details about the flight. There are certainly more things here, e.g. according to Article 18. You can't land on the road, but it's generally allowed anywhere else in the country as long as it doesn't interfere with car traffic and similar. So it would be natural for similar rules to apply there. I just hope that's all. The Environment and Transport Committee will be aware of this and will consider these factors. Time is so short, Mr. President. I'm just gonna come on one last thing about research and science. As we know, in Iceland's central highlands are very interesting from a scientific standpoint, and there are many opportunities to investigate. One of the things I think this bill is that the co-work of the park is set up as a fund that finances scientific research in this particular area. Perhaps there will be time to discuss it rather later, but I'm going to use the last 14 seconds to say, "It's important. We have a lot of interest in protecting Iceland's Middlelands and doing it well. But we must make sure that we do so on the right grounds, that we are defending nature, not necessarily because people enjoy it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u102	V.E.G. President. We are in a meeting place where we will discuss the matter in 1st. one of the priorities of the government, the priorities of a government consisting of a left, independent, and independent class. This is one of the big cases in the government contract of these categories, a case that has gone through the government and the administrations at least If not twice, once. It's in here in the image that we see it now. Then come the members of the council and appear to have no responsibility for them. Now they're running from signs. And why would that be? Yes, this may be because it might be time for them to take a stand on the matter. Perhaps we just need to do that to find out if the matter is actually to be done that will take a considerable amount of time for the council in the next few months, whether they really support it. It's a little special, Mr. President, that we're in a position to be involved in a matter of Congress that we feel is trying to avoid agreeing or taking sides. At any rate, I have a feeling that people would like to draw it as far as they can go about it, i.e. so that the government may not have to go away because of its failure to fulfill the government covenant. But these are thoughts that I believe to be light for all who are observing Congress, politics, and the government. Now it is time to pay the dues, and it is time for people to live up to what they accepted. At that time, some seem to have hooked up their buttons and set off. A respectable president. I'm just going to tear down my concerns and take my stand on the matter. I can describe my position right away. I object to the situation, so I think that it is not possible to make any improvement in the matter of Congress. But let's see, let's try. Here, earlier today, it went awry. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason, chairman of the environment and transport committee, well above the objective of the bill, i.e. To establish this central, highland, or national park now known as it is. That's interesting, actually. Why Change Name Suddenly? I don't know if there's a social security number. But it sounds kind of strange, to me, to just change the name of it. Like what? paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason correctly pointed out that at least all or at least most of the goals proposed by a highland park can be achieved without making such a big point. There is something else that you can see, and attention has been made. Certain contradictions appear to be in the bill or in these ideas. Somehow it seems that the bill and the intention of improving access to the highlands, building roads, etc. but at the same time, it's called protecting, preventing and limiting traffic. Then you think about how it went with other national parks, how it went with the Lake earth. We've been given information and suggested that it might now do a little better. It lacks funding to do most things that have been promised. Although a toilet position may have been prepared, it cannot be kept open because staff are missing, etc. I think it's very important to try to do well what we already have before we begin to add the projects and problems, unless it's just the will of this government to continue to expand, expand the system. Now we see that they're going to open up the budget even more, an additional 55 billion. Few people seem to think that one day they will have to pay it all back. This idea of a national park is in the ground of a very noble idea, if we can put it that way, i.e. to create an area or an area that is uninhabited and has specific laws, etc. But this is how much of our country comes from natural hands. There are large areas in which you would like to get on, large areas where you might even take a great walk to see, spend one night, etc. In fact, we have had a bad time holding on to the few roads in the highlands or helping people to get along well with the natural world that they can see by driving, choosing to use that route. In the bill it also seems that some sort of totalitarian authority would be expected at National Guard and Ministers by regulations, regulations, and bans. That's all I can see. Of course, I hope that something else is revealed, but that those who control this park can simply be expected to make the rules, order men to follow them, watch for them, and accuse men. True, it is stated that those who feel that they are leaning and have received some sort of sentence, or a ruling by these devices, can make their case known to the decision - making committee. Well, I'll just say, "That's what I'm gonna say. " There is, therefore, much to do when you wonder what the purpose of this is. Certain changes have been made since the beginning of the bill, but by what I have learned, I am very afraid that the changes will not be so dramatic when it comes to basics like people's free journeys to our country. There seems to be some kind of rules and regulations to rule over all created things in the park. You should have to apply for and pay for the other. Somehow, fences and restrictions are to be developed and to reduce the ability of people to travel through the country, to explore and enjoy it. Yes, it is assumed that people can apply for permission for groups and the like to be in certain places. There are likely times when a tent is to be held in advance. If I understand correctly, they will no longer be able to go off the road with the tent and perhaps walk a mile, find a beautiful picnic, lodge there for two, three, four nights, catch a potential stream, or bathe in the river. In any case, it seems to be the right thing to make rules about it. I'm also concerned, Mr. President, that those who control the highland park, Minister, National Park Guard, etc., will have far too much authority over what may be done and done within it. If everything I read in this bill is taken together, if you consider all the permits and commands and regulations and regulations to be set up by a minister, etc., I wonder if there will be any possibility at all to use natural resources within the national park or, for example, that there will be any chance at all. if needed All of this will probably be explained. But I'd like to mention something that I saw in one part of the bill, which is in the report. There are, for example, some things on which you can kill. I have to mention that on page 5. 17 The report speaks of the motive and need of law. It says, by permission of the President: With new generations, there are new emphasis that nature must be protected and used in a way that holds the doubt unattainable. I wondered, " Is this not exactly the wrong way, whether it is just a question of the future, the possibility of future generations making decisions on what to do with Icelandic nature? ' What is to be done in this large area of the park? Why are we about to mark it as a national park and thus set a ban on future generations? To a large extent, nature in this area, as it is today, has been able to protect itself. Hence, it attracts tourists or people who are curious about Icelandic nature. I'm going to stop for a minute, Mr. President, on page 18. 18 and 19 in the report. It discusses that the International Environmental Protection Agency IUCN has defined the criteria for what should be kept in mind when establishing a reservation. According to the organization, reservations are divided into seven categories, all of which can be used within national parks. By permission of the president, I will read a little on the page of this magazine. 19: The chains are defined according to the primary objective of protecting territory. Thus a national park may be established where its primary objective as a whole is defined in the national reservation but is also defined as a single lower area within the national park in other reservations, depending on the primary objective of protecting the area. This is to be done in a Lake Earth park. Areas within the Highland Park are expected to be defined according to this classification. It is permitted to expand the national park later with the approval of local partners and other legal conditions met. After very little notice, you seem to be falling under a so-called II. Class IUCN. Then you wonder what the hell that means, as someone says here. It seems to be a significant limit to the use of resources within the range they acquire. It appears that the bill sets up the highland park in Class II according to the definition of this organization. If I understand this correctly, and, of course, I have a few reasons for it, it means that within this area, within the park, if all of it is defined there will be a very high limit of efficiency, if not absolutely no longer use energy sources, whether it is for hydropower activation, aquifers, or possible wind. It is very important to remember that when these groups are controlled, as I understand it, none of these groups really allow energy. There is something else that we need to keep in mind at the same time. If the classification has this effect, which must be reflected in a committee opinion, how does it compare with the policy we have set for energy efficiency or the use of the resources of the country? I'm not gonna have many words on a frame plan. I'll do it later. It is a handless and hopeless career, as I have said many times in this discourse. I want to use this opportunity to repeat it. Surely we need to consider future generations of energy when we take the biggest part of the region that provides energy for our future and groups so that energy cannot be used. We must stop, if only for future generations, that energy can be lost if necessary. If these categories are properly not used, it is a concern. There's no question about that in my mind. Let us not forget that if we become a national park, we are taking an enormous amount of Icelandic territory under it. Now I've been to dog parks over the bill and some of my concerns, Mr. President. I think the government groups would have had to think more about it before they made it. Let's not forget, though it's the best. Environment Ministers present the matter in good faith and with great conscientiousness - and I highly appreciate the fact that the Minister is faithful to his policy, we don't have to agree on all things, but there's no way to respect it - it must be a measure of disappointment to see partners and fellow workers in seeing the matter run from the council as it seems to be now that they are now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u103	President. Finally, at last, I'll just say. And I can feel it from the speeches. Much less that they sense the historic significance of this moment. We who have the best interests of the highlands and thus the whole country, which I know we all do here, know that future historians will look back to that time, look to him, and see who the senators were forward enough to take part in forming a national park on the highlands. I trust I'll be asked, Grandpa, did you do it? And I'll say, "Yes, little lass. I sure did. Here you go. Speaking of history, the highlands have been the heart of Iceland for quite a long time. It has something to do with my family. A journey service established by my great-grandfather in the Valley of Snow made it to the highlands. A great deal of people came to realize the high value and complexity of their territory, and they wanted to go there to see it. I am sure that he would have been pleased to get such trips into the boundaries of a national park. President. In few cases, I'd say that it was better prepared and in more consultation than it was in this case. It's about A year ago, a transliterated Senate committee returned its findings, a very good work that I encourage all of them. Councilmen to study the details of who should be the big lines, and indeed down into very small lines as well, regarding the park's establishment. About a year later, we are given an opportunity to discuss the product. In the meantime, the highest. Ministers around the country, present the matter, arrange meetings, talk to people, and make the best choice of consultations. All too often, president, people confuse agreements with whether they agree with the conclusion. You see, there are two different kinds of things, Mr. President. I have been consulted about a number of things in my life, since the conclusion may have been the one I haven't necessarily satisfied with, but I can't complain about the lack of communication. And here, I can't complain about it, but I give the highest compliments. Minister to the extent that he has put forth great effort to introduce this matter to all who come to him. I wonder, it's natural in the government covenant. It is one of the major issues of the government contracts of the Government of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir Jacobs, the establishment of a central national park, or a national park in the central highlands. - I hope Mr President forgives me not to recall words from the Constitution, but the park is there. Why would he be there? Why has this idea been on for decades? Why do we want to start a national park in the highlands? Yes, it has to do with the protection of nature and history, such as landscapes, vastness of life, earth form, and culture. I would have thought there was something that we were all happy about. To make it possible for the public to get to know and enjoy nature and culture and history of the park, that's a good thing. To make it easier for the public to have access to the park as possible without the loss of its natural nature, I would have thought all the members of the council in this room would have been involved. To help ensure that the public can live outside the park in harmony with nature and culture, seeking to promote more developed communities, to strengthen the communities and occupations in the vicinity of the park, and in the whole country. President. This is where I have reached only five out of the ten goals of a highland park that can be found in the bill. I still have to meet the senator who has claimed to be opposed to that goal. I still have to hear reasons that keep any water out of achieving these goals through the establishment of a park. And I can continue: the park is to become a platform of discussion and decision-making within the park and its development. Study and instruction on the national park are to be done. This is the highlands. They need research and instruction on this heart of the country. Restored ecosystems that have been disturbed, preserve national parks, and contribute to cooperation and cooperation with societies and volunteers on environmental issues. Teamwork and cooperation are being energized through the entire organization drawn up here on a bill on a highland park. Who's in charge of the National Park, Mr. President? Yes, six members of a rural society, one from each area of the park, one representative is designated by each of the following bodies: National Residents, Environmentalist Associations, National Institutes of the European Union, and one representative is appointed as a joint member of national tourism organisations and the Group of Transportation. One agent is appointed as secretary. Here, the cooperation and consultation that have been made and that is a minister to praise all of this work. This can also be seen in the district council, where the National Park will be divided into a business area of districts. Who's sitting there? Yes, five representatives are designated as members of a group of rural society, and so is one representative of each of the following bodies: Foreign Residents, Environmental Protection Agency and Iceland's National Institutes, designated by a group of Cooperative Residents in the relevant management area, and one representative of the joint travel organisations in that area and the Association of the Travellers. In other words, in the district councils, the rural communities are in a greater part, and the consultation and cooperation that are guaranteed here should be all those who carry the interests of their community, their territory, and also the whole area for the earnestness of this sector. That advice is not necessarily available today. That's one of the things the park can do. It worries me, Mr. President, to hear and read the false reports about national parks in the highlands during the last days, whether in the articles, interviews, Facebook, or anywhere. It is the responsibility of a democratic representative not to give such serious consideration to the situation. The facts speak for themselves. The park's organization clearly shows what the thought is behind the distribution control and cooperation that has been represented here. As we face the opportunity to accept a high - nation park, we must live up to the responsibility and follow the good policies that have been taking place all these years. The matter must come as soon as possible to the committee and to the discussion so that all the numerous who feel that way have a point to make it available. It is my firm faith, President, that once all the misunderstandings and misunderstandings have been set aside, there is only one conclusion possible to those who approach the matter professionally. A highland park provides countless opportunities that would be worth not using. The park would be Iceland's largest contribution to the world's natural protection so far. That assignment must involve all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u104	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a lengthy idea of national parks in the highlands. This is not a completely new idea, and it can be said, in fact, that we've been in a gene-test for this case, this change, this park, for 15 years with a Lake Earth park. A water - cold national park has been a laboratory for the control system to test for the control of a vast natural area, a Lake Earth park with a much larger population. Water supply has also been an interesting attempt on the distribution program, in moving the area to direct both the national park and the national community, nature - protection organization, the movement of tourists, those with a range of interests because the National Park is successful. This procedure is implemented in a bill to legalize a highland park, allowing six districts to control as many areas. It may seem difficult for some, but it is about this garden that we are talking about turning around the heart of the country, the highland, to have a direct connection with the heart of the people around it. At the same time as it is very positive that the local people come directly to the care and protection of the area, we must not forget that we have this country together, whether we live here in Reykjavík or in the East. And the whole world really owns this area together. Because UNESCO is unique, it is also on a world calendar because of its characteristics of the highlands. That's why everything is coming to this matter. There is nothing to say that a well-published highland park is not as relevant to a total world mine as a Lake Earth park. The government has raised three issues simultaneously, first of all, a bill for a highland park, second of the Congress Code 3 and third, a National Park bill. Now we have only the two others in our hands. Somewhere along the way, the National Park has been left behind. This is sad because in the past few years, a common outside of peaceful territory and national parks would be a great improvement simply because we have learned from the units that have been operated in many years that they are often too small to function properly. A government review revealed a lack of central management of the park. This has been improved, but simple things, such as personnel, organizational matters, and having experts in a number of ways will be much easier if the management is in one hand rather than for many today. But all right, we have a national park for discussion, not just the highland park. Tonight I would like to talk about how important it is for a highland park to live up to its name as a national park, as a reservation of nature, to meet our demands to him, that the place be a guard for the priceless and unique nature that we have there. I would especially like to discuss the park's interaction with energy forces in the same area. 23rd par. The bill is about energy efficiency. It says that a minister should define what is called the perimeter of a highland park because of energy efficiency. This is three reasons why, first of all, are already activated. This requires setting a frame around them. Second, you have activating ideas that are part of a framework system. And third, activates the waiting class of the third stage of a frame plan that could possibly move up to a novelty party and would have to fit in with being peripheral. I'll snap right away at that word, perimeter, because I understand perimeters as outer limits. When the outer edge of the Lakeland nation was defined at its time - activationists had received first selection in the highlands, and for those reasons, the damaged areas for energy consumption - controlled the High Road west of Lake Bay and the neck had been drawn from the North Sea's Basis by the way the perimeter of the Lakesland Park was pulled. It was simply dragged five miles from the critical area. Now the perimeter of the bill is something that can go much farther into the garden. In this case it aims at the order shown in the third step of a frame plan that has not yet been adopted here at the General Assembly and is even to the point that it should be approved in the form it was performed five years ago. Then, in 2016, a ruler of the 20th century placed the highest priority. Environment Minister of the Convention following the proposal from the project management and reviews of the general public and community organizations for a few days. It didn't get quite a week. It did not change from the task management program despite multiple indications of activation that lack information or activation options for various reasons should be given a precautionary reason to move from innovation to a waiting party. That's what we'll probably talk about when we get to the top. The Environment Minister recommends the civilian framework of Sigrún Magnúsdóttir. It's a bit funny that in a conversation that is characterized by so many calls for reconciliation and consultation, it is also referred to as not following a third step of a framework in which the agreement was ignored and the reconciliation was considerably more in favour of energy efficiency than natural protection. But okay. The farms called, which might be more correct in calling simply the industrial fields for the fortresses within the highland park, are certainly some on the edge, such as the Big Laxár or Hosmian Invaders, which are in the waiting category, but there are certainly not the borders. The report refers to a range of 11 km2 industrial areas and a 76 km2 industrial area, a steaming process that will be seen in the inhabited areas, and has a major impact on survival. Don't become a frame of the southern edge of the Torfajokul River, Gashagi, or Sandfell, in the edge of a highland park, if it does. There are a waiting frame of three 90 MWs. This is mainly a sign that it was just not possible to discuss between the ruling classes what it means to be a national park. Here's your head hit on the stone, and we're going to stress five-year-old results of a work programme rather than just sit down and say, "Well, we're going to break this area down." We will preserve it for ever and ever before the generations to come, for the sake of the whole land, and of the whole world. This conflict between the government parties is clearly reflected in the advance of the advance Party, which counts three pages if you carefully print it out, 1,000 words. These are seven numbered teams and a few more, probably an Iceland record in a government standoff. The fact that a whole board of directors does as much of a warning in the bill moves a man to ask himself: " Is it over my head? Is it a government bill? When another entire government party, the Independence Party, makes comparable warnings, that question will be even more urgent. It was an exit now, Mr. President. I'd like to mention what we have in the advance of the Panorama on the 23rd floor. on energy efficiency, where the category says that a new text has to be written in the article, with the permission of a president: ▪ M.a. that the energy initiatives of the 3rd and 4rd frames will be taken into consideration without linking in the national park The fact that energy advantages fall within the park is of no importance. That is the requirement of the forward party. The benefits are to be considered regardless of where they are in the national parks. That's when the protection plan is beginning to go a hell of a block to the energy efficiency point, which is a concern. I think that's all we can call it. All of this shows that during the last three years of negotiations between the government parties, huge compromises have had to be made. The framework and the bill of a highland park that are not supposed to hang together in any normal year's trip are already under way. The peaceful declaration of the highlands should not be the basis for the use of energy within the national park. They've hung it here, but it doesn't seem to work. Today, the management teams, one after the other, have come up and spoken of the need for this compromise, which is not green enough when it comes to energy, and they are moving it further toward energy efficiency. I'm really worried, Mr. Honorable President, because when it comes to it, it's about time. The Environment and Transport Committee to evaluate the scales of the priceless nature of the highlands and the economic short - term benefits of continuing activation in that area if nature is not given the benefit of the doubt. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u105	Mr. President. It's a good thing for you to ride here. It was sanctified because some took off the rosary and others I would rather have expected to use all the time in their talks were shorter than usual. At the same time, I thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for taking the stand. It may not be surprising that we were. A senator is somewhat involved in our presentation, and we have a common reason to be very interested in the environment and to work on the environment that this bill, of course, is about. Mr. President. We're here for the highest bill. Environment Minister for the establishment of a highland park for which we environmentalists have long been waiting. The establishment of a central nation of national environments has been one of the main struggles of environmentalists in Iceland for decades, I allow myself to make a statement. How glad, then, that there is finally a national bill here! The one standing here has and will always be a great supportist of establishing a national park in the central Iceland, which would be an enormous step in peace - breaking the unique, uninhabited and uninhabited areas of Iceland, thereby showing respect for the areas they deserve. Since we have at peace with the Middle East, we also showed the generations that we have gone before, and have shown the benefit of the individual nature of the central highlands, respect, and thanks, but we would especially be at peace with the center of the highlands and set up a national park to leave these unique natures in the future and provide them with access to the individual areas of the world as the global peak of Iceland. It's also good that the bill has finally appeared on the tip of the bill. Environment Minister, three years after the Treaty of the current government and at least two years of consultation and covering over a country of different peoples. Mr. President. Despite the fact that the bill aims, it appears in Article 3. It, many noble, beautiful and fantastic, such as protecting nature and national history, protecting landscapes, vastness of life, biodiversity and culture and securing the existence of total ecosystems and natural processes, I have to admit that I am still bent, bent by this long-stranded bill that we deal with here, unfortunately, is too much of a delivery to those forces that view the central highlands as energy and energy efficiency, and attach too much emphasis on job structure in connection with the matter. I thought it was the highest story. Environmental Ministers also have evidence of this. In my opinion and opinion, he may have been a bit overcrowded about his job structure, even though I agree with him that with an institution of a central national park, opportunities for green economy may grow and valuable jobs will be created there. However, employment structure is not nor should it be the primary objective of developing a Middleland park. Rather, it should be a protection policy. The biggest bend and fear I feel is 23rd degree. the bill that carries the most clear signal of energy disposal. There I want a sentence that reads, by permission of the President: The new activation initiatives can be carried out on the perimeters of the Highland National Park if the new activation was defined in the energy efficiency category of the 3rd Act of the Protection and Energy efficiency programme adopted at the General Assembly on the basis of a protection and energy efficiency legislation and based on the evaluation of the environmental impact of the Agency. Here is wide open on the construction of the new fortress in the so - called perimeter regions of a new central highland park. It's due later in 23rd paragraph. with these words, by permission of the president: If the activation option has been preceded by assessment into the late-class energy efficiency category, it is permitted to assume that the relevant activation in the peripheral region of the Highland Park should result in a protection and energy efficiency programme with the modified category of activation initiatives have been adopted at the General Assembly in accordance with the regulations for energy management and protection programmes. What are we talking about there? Yes, activation initiatives in the peripheral areas of the central highland park, such as the Mountains of Botna, Grashaga, and Sandfells in the Torfajokul region, are here with the opportunity to be taken to a colony. The bill specifically states that these options are allowed to be activated. It is also known as the Whos fields of Kili, the gangs in the middle of a explosion, the Nuven ulceration at Núsást, the controversial Holfjörður and Hólm wound activation. None of these costs are any longer under the national reservations of peace and security. Rather, it is strongly stated that new fortresses can be done in the national park perimeters as well as that it is permitted to activate the benefits of a waiting party in the national park. It can hardly work out, in a long-stranded bill on a central national park, that new activations will be directly opened in the edge of the park, and that an entire branch of the bill will only talk about this. It can hardly work or work together with the definition of a national park that requires all activities and projects that have lasting impact on the environment unless they are necessary to achieve the objective of the declaration. I can hardly recall the activation of the park, which is still being kept inside, a rock that will have its own activation buildings built up, whole - souled, line layers, and large - scale noise of the region further breaks up landscapes on the west side of a lake glacier in the edge of a lake-land park and Hopeland, and within a proposed centrally highland park. This is hardly in harmony with the ideas expressed in the noble target of the bill to protect uninhabited and uninhabited areas of Iceland's central highlands. Or what? At least that doesn't match the concept as defined by nature protection law, No. 60/2013, where there are areas in the wild where manpower and nature can be enjoyed without interference with manmade or motor - driven vehicles. This 23rd paragraph. you will simply have to change to treatment. Environment and Transport Committee, Mr. President. Sadly, though, I do not have much hope to do so in view of the hearing of the council members who came on deck at the beginning of the discussion. The conference's criticism of the case, of those who have entered the public speaker's office during the discussion today, is all very strange and heavy. The members of the board who came here in the General's speaker's office to cover the Supreme Court. Environment Ministers, criticizes, and doubts about it are the majority of those sitting at the head. Environmental and Transport Committee. Not to be overlooked is the criticism of the Chairman. The environment and transport committee showing that the matter is not on its way to any treatment for reconciliation. Committee. The poor sit for a year and a half during this average period of rest. I have to admit that I'm not hoping that the Committee will improve the environmental protection issues. Many of the executives on deck were in no doubt considering environmental or nature protection issues. Rather, they were the leaders of the rural community. And, yes, the communities themselves have convened with their comments, speaking of their organizational authority, that it may not be impaired at all. In fact, I am part of the group that agrees with earlier this year's decision that the bill actually overpowers the local government at the expense of expert assistance, with full respect for the local government. I think we need to get over this dispute over the authority of rural and rural groups and focus on the purpose of the bill, which is the protection principle. This view will benefit all of us, whether we are elected members of this council, elected representatives of the rural community, general citizens of this country, live in the capital area, or live more near the proposed Middleland park. All of us will share in a coming central nation park. And we will all have access to the protective territory underneath. Mr. President. I wanted to promote these views, i.e. these priming plans to be opened in 23 g. and too much emphasis on the planning of rural administration that I know to the highest. The secretary of the environment has had a good conversation and has tried to communicate. But sometimes the media is too much. The main objective of the Law bill is taken aside, and it is rather a matter of considering the diminished organizational authority, when it is true that all rural areas in the vicinity of the National Park, as well as in the Sea Earth's national park, have benefited from an increase in quality of life, in order to be close to them, socially, from jobs building, from education. Mr. President. As my speech reads, I support a central nation park and will always do so. But I hope that the matter will not be so much about what happens. The environment and transport committees that the primary objective of the bill will be changed and other viewpoints such as job structure, free movement and organizational authority will be outweighed by treatment. It's the principle of the environmental principle. I would also like to pay a price against 23rd degree. Stay the same. I would like to direct those words to the point. The Environment and Transport Committee to take this article for careful consideration and see exactly what is being done when opening up the activation initiatives on the edge and borders of the central highland park. Although it may be stated that Torfijokus and other areas that are virtually part of the central nation park are in the edge of the park, they are an integral part of the central highlands. We can hardly tear it apart and say, "This side of this hill can be activated, but on the other side of the hill, we're going to have uninhabited, uninhabited. " It just doesn't work. I try to be optimistic and hopeful. The Environment and Transport Committee deals with the environmental issues, considering the main objective of the bill and the development of significant changes in the bill from its original objective that for many environmentalists, it is even too far gone. I wish. Therefore, the Environment and Transport Committee is a success of their work and is hoping again and again that the environmental principles will be respected. It's the main entry and it's supposed to be the main element of the bill we're dealing with here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u106	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. I was trying to listen up here in a platoon room and decided to run down to get a little more explanation of two things. Hv. A senator spoke a great deal about 23rd paragraph. The bill and I just want to see if we understand things the same way. I understand 23rd degree. to minimize or prevent further use of energy within the national park. It also states that no new high - power lines can be placed in the park area. I wonder if it's kind of shortsighted because if we're going to strengthen our system, we're going to have to walk past the park if we can't put lines on it, and it could be more expensive. I wondered, " Do I understand correctly that the senator has the same understanding as I understand it? ' We may not have the same emphasis, whether it is good or bad, so we should not build new structures in the park, considering this article. I would also like, if there is a time, to reflect on the classification referred to on page 5. 18 and 19 that the park adopts an international definition from the International Nature Protection Organizations IUCN. Il. A group of them assume that no energy efficiency or energy development within the national park is really to be carried out. I wonder what. A senator recognizes these conservation organizations, and this definition of what can be and what must not be done within the areas or national parks that adopt the definition IUCN II.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u107	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, 23rd degree. In my opinion, when it comes to the central highlands, energy consumption is just a matter of note. Although this is a matter of taking some measure of success by pushing these activations into the so - called perimeter of a park, it can hardly be compared to having a activation option with all its means on one side of a hill or a hill and specifying the other side of an uninhabited region. It's something special that in a bill that says the protection of the uninhabited Middleland National Park is so much powdered to talk about new priming options. I also ask, What is our need when it comes to electricity and activation options? I don't think it can go together unless it's determined what our need is and if it really is needed to open this bill for activation initiatives on the Who fields to form, or Fornication, or Nuverition, or napal reactivation, which are already controversial activation options. We're going to discuss a frame plan here at the Assembly Hall, but here in this bill, there's a possibility that a new primacy can be done on the edge of the park. I think, Mr. President, and what. A senator, that this just doesn't work together because during the decades of fighting for the Middleland National Laws, nature protection has always been the red strand and the core in the struggle, not to define new activation options in the perimeter and so forth. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u108	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Now it is stated in the bill that a minister is authorized by the Regulation to determine the enlargement of the national park and to establish national areas outside the territory specified in Article 2 of Article 2. the approval of the landowner and the local government. If it were to be carried out and the minister or the government of that time, in some way, might force the communities or force them to accept it, we could have entered the national park at any point. A senator listed here? Maybe I haven't gone deep enough into this. I'll keep that under notice. But I understand it so that the classes and criteria to adopt in the entire park or in the areas within it - such as those mentioned earlier in connection with the IUCN classification mentioned at the bottom of page. Page 18 and at the top. 19 of the report - a lid for energy efficiency. If this is the case, it is accepted as a category and established by the law and by the rules and by which energy efficiency has been sealed in that area. It may well be. A senator will sink into this section too, but I think it's important to know the meaning of the problem by recording the classification. About our first conversation, it's all left with the electrical lines. I'm worried about the cost. In addition, we may be able to reason on later whether it would be better for future generations to make a national park now or to do nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u109	Mr. President. I apologize for not answering the latter part of the inquiry. The senator last year's answer. I believe, however, that what has been established on the basis of the definition of the International Protection Agency's standards of protection, to divide the reservations that can be used within national parks, is very important because we need a system when we divide into a similar variety of areas and the central population of Iceland. Whether it will be followed is so perhaps another arm. Let us hope that this will be done. I hear a case, too. A senator's worried about electrons. It would be nice to hear that he is concerned about electrical lines and the pollution that they will create. I think we need to avoid in the longest layer of parks, but I don't think we can do that if we open up on the perimeter of the highland park. But when it comes to energy issues, you must also talk about the demand for energy rather than always opening some priming option in some future with some vague ideas about electricity and energy and our demand for energy. We've been working on energy policy here. Times are changing very fast. We're going into energy exchange in transportation. The important thing may be to die on its own. Then we will also need to examine what is designed to happen with the Straumsvík plant. Would we rather use that energy in the energy exchange or what? I think it's exciting times, but we're also facing great challenges. [[The president calls.]] It's important that we protect the environmental and protective issues that should be the primary objective of this bill, not the energy efficiency policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u110	President. This matter, in simplicity, is a matter of long - term thinking in the face of short - term thinking. By means of this bill, we are trying to establish an organization that promotes long - term thinking, not short - term thinking. Why do I say that? It's, for example. related to energy efficiency. There are not too many years in which hydropower workers, geologists, or these will simply become out - of - date options in terms of practicality. This is just saying in view of the technology that has occurred in recent years and what the Moores law is bringing us, although it may be more relevant to micro-energy efficiency. This seems to be about to go, though. in the same direction, i.e. Energy generation methods develop so fast these days, and will do so in the coming years, that if Iceland's central population was used under giant hydro-engineers, geologists, or such, it would be an enormous inexpensive use of the unskilled masses of Iceland, if we were to think of something valuable or so. Unsorthodox nature is becoming more valuable than ever before. There have been talks that these are not major goals and that something else is going to handle this, the laws on nature protection and the like, the things are taken care of, the problems can be solved, the challenges that are focused on, in some other way. But it's about solving these problems. To have a centerland national park, considering the technological development we see in the coming decades, considering the challenges we see in the use of natural spheres, requires an organization. This is an idea of such an organization. Some say, "This isn't the point. There is something else that can be done. What? Yes, someone else can fix this in another way. How? They're working on it now. People are trying to deal with the problems we are facing right now, and we are in the situation where we have problems. There's more to do. Can those who have a growing problem because of increasing tourist weight do more? Possibly. Does this mean that there is a need for better cooperation and communication between different parties who handle these responsibilities? Definitely. Would it be possible to do so by means of some device that helped with such communication? Absolutely. Could it be called a petite highland park? Of course. It's really no more complicated than that. When we struggle with the argument that something different can be done, it actually leads to the conclusion of not doing anything. Then we're stuck with the problems we're trying to solve. Granted, it is possible to screw up. It can be said that the solution, with all these governments and management areas and districts and the like, could be done right, but it can also be screwed up because we are human and do something wrong. But it's not worse than messing up by not doing anything. By working toward the problems, by coping with them, we learn from mistakes and do better. By doing nothing, we will learn nothing, we will continue to fail, and we will dig even deeper than we are in. In answer to this earlier evening, I spoke of the goal of promoting the public's ability to live within the park in harmony with nature and culture. Travellers and outdoors have said, in different ways and different ways, that this is not a problem. National Guards and other outdoors say it's a problem, e.g. because very sensitive non-supervising spheres, i.e. There is no situation in them, there is trouble with those who did not know how to manage them, such as the tourists who say they are not a problem because they're doing well with the natural world, they might handle the fragile nature of Iceland, they know about these delicate places that are all over the country and they know where they are. There's been a pretty good secret about certain places, just because they're sensitive because of their uniqueness. These secrets have simply been revealed by the chance that it is easy to distribute GPS. The cat's out of the bag, the pandorbox's been opened. Although the roadman's weight is not enormous in the central highlands, it does not carry much weight anyway. A small percentage of the tourists who come here is the problem we face. If the trend should remain the same as it has been and in relation to the programmes that have been made for e.g. Building at the Cheflaví airport, in view of the number of passengers and such, would only cause the problem to grow if the crown virus had not come up. Many places have been affected and damaged despite defenses and efforts to build up a situation. This is a problem that we have to solve, and we solve it with organization, we solve it with better cooperation, we solve it with better relationships, and we solve it by looking into the future with long - term thinking, not with short - term profits that make natural bulbs damaged because we don't act quickly enough about our environment. You see, it does not take much time to damage the vulnerable environment in the middle of the country. So I'll tie this up a little bit, we're just arguing about the public rights. He's been and he's very rich here in Iceland. Nor has he been a problem because we are simply few and in reality have been poor traffic for people in the highland. Thus, the Universal Court has not caused us the problems he would make with increasing traffic weights. As the weight of traffic increases, we have to care for the responsibilities we have for the future generation, to make sure that they have the same environmental quality that we do. We must take those steps and make an organization that does not have an unreasonable way of walking on nature for the future. In turn, we have a job use. That's where I'm warning the short-term profits. Let's think further, think 50 years ahead, and consider the circumstances then possible in relation to the development of major activation projects or the maintenance of unscrupulous nature. I don't see a scene where a huge increase in activation in this area would bring us more profit forever than allowing untarnished nature to exist. These assets will stay much longer than activation here and there. We're supplying energy to the aluminium industry, 80% of the energy we produce goes to the aluminium companies. I went into a little calculus and set up a fictional example. Given the average price of electricity in the UK, this energy would sell for 360 billion, it would be moved by some giant cable to Britain - nothing at all, it was just set up to compare the numbers. I calculated this in 2014. At the same time, reports and results were coming on how much of the aluminium companies were paying for these 80% of the energy produced in Iceland, which was about 60 billion. We need to explain why we are losing 300 billion of our valuables. We are actually giving these 300 billion businesses a year of valuables that we could use in another way. I'd say Icelandic energy is being treated badly at the moment. Some say that we're saving environmentally. If we weren't producing energy for the industry, which is less contaminated here, it would pollute elsewhere. This is a major problem, for it is industrialized in other parts of the world, which is environmentally friendly and makes more and more valuable. We could instead be supporting him here in Iceland, i.e. if we were to trade the industry and the aluminium production. The exact same energy would be used if this industry were to change a place, but energy would be used for greener projects here in Iceland, making the production environmental and competitive, which would ultimately lead to a better world. The total carbon footprint would be at worst the same thing. If something is, it could be less. If the environmentally friendly industry were to become more competitive at some point, the net effect would be more positive over the next 10, 20, 30 years than if we were to continue the production of the aluminium and the industry. So that is a false argument. It's always forgotten to add up. It is not enough to say that the production of aluminium is going to go anywhere else, where it would pollute more and that would mean an increase in greenhouse gas emissions. We also have to remember what we'd get back in return. The entire world would not change anything. These are arguments that are very common, and that are exactly what I have heard about having been negative toward this national park. I just remind you that long-term thinking is better than short-term thinking. For this bill, however it is, we are human, and we can screw it up back and forth. At any rate, though, we learn from taking our steps and stumbling, getting up, and moving ahead, and doing better as a result. If we don't do anything, we won't learn anything and continue to sink into the same silly shit we're doing right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u111	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir His speech was given to Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson. There was only one point I'm going to ask. The conclusion of the speech by reason. A senator seemed so special to me that I'm going to wear it only. It turns to it, like a snooze. A senator gave the example that we were losing 300 billion a year by not selling energy through a cable. Am I understanding Porta's representative from a budget board so that he does not appreciate the value of the work being done in this country?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u112	A respectable president. That's exactly the same faulty reasoning I just described. If we take the aluminium production and take it away, we'll replace it with something else and use it in exactly the same way. At worst, the resulting effect would be from the new industry just as they were from the others. No, I'm not saying that, obviously not. What I'm trying to say is there's a 300 billion difference between selling energy here in Iceland - this was my 2014 and the United Kingdom calculations. That means we've got 300 billion more worth of energy for our energy at a different market than we have in Iceland. That means we're using the value of our energy in a very bad way compared to our next neighbor. We can't sell it on a sea cable because a sea cable is just a completely mad idea, but we must be able to do better with the valuable thing in Iceland to get these 300 billion things back just from the continents.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u113	Mr. President. Then there's the point I was originally going to ask. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear about the matter in the context of the long future being far more valuable in the uninhabited nature of the highlands. The Senator repeatedly said that it would be better to think for a long time, not shorter. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A member of Congress whether he believes that visitors had been more or fewer in recent years and lost weight in the Meriah area with or without the energy structure there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u114	More or fewer in Merian Healing? Obviously no one gets where the lay is, so I think there'd be probably more.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u115	A respectable president. I'm going in my second talk to cover 1st. to discuss the points of time that I did not get into because of my first talk. There's a view related to it, like the highest. Environment Minister introduced in his review speech, that this is the largest contribution from Iceland to nature protection, the largest contribution of all time to nature protection. I just want to know if the Environment Minister is so sure that these goals cannot be achieved in any way except to establish this highland park. In effect, he believes that the battle for the good of the highlands could not be achieved. I'd be very sorry if it was at the top of the world's clearance. Environment Minister. I would like to relate this to the security of those who use the highlands in one way or another. I'd like to put this in perspective with the people of the land that started with the legalization of 1998 and ever since there has been a child between the state's funds and farmers around the country. The Ring is now closing down after all this time because the Westerners are subject to this loss. I have wondered, " Is this the reason why this name is no longer a central nation park but a highland park because it will fit into this rule of action in the areas of the West, which the state would be able to take to himself from the landowners of the West? ' This highway of nations has created unnecessary conflicts for decades, which I'm afraid we are about to set off with new merits in this case facing the highland park. The experience of all the business partners involved in the region, the majority and the farmers, is that it is obvious that they have failed completely at the highest level. Environment Ministers and those who speak for the case to convince the layman that there is no need to worry. Another factor that seems to me to be somewhat conflicting with one another in this discussion. One of the phrases is intended to protect the area from access, the other is to increase the number of visitors in the form of guests. Of course, the plan is to build wood, and so forth, to ensure that the number of visitors has a lower degree of impact and propagation on our natural operas. But is it not possible to do so even now? I've waited longer than there was a reason in certain areas, causing damage to them in order to prove: "Hey, you see how bad this is and how hard it is. That's what we're gonna do with a central national park. Can it not be done to fix these things without putting this big pile around it? Then I'd like to finish, because my time is running away, to bring in a special part of my partner's talk on an environment and transportation committee, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Ottar's son Proppér, where he spoke of how good the discussion had been, that would be in consultation, and that would be the way he came repeatedly to consult with him, but then he didn't listen. In case of a moment. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé was here in the hall, I would joke that it was understandable that he was not listened to. But it is so inevitable that those who attended these meetings, the communities, and the professionals felt that there was no mark on the viewpoints set there. It's not a consultation, it's a formal agreement, and it's very sad that there's as many of the manners in the case as there are. Now I'm out of time, but I can't wait to get the case fixed. Environmental and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u116	Mr. President. I couldn't hear better than that. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason would be to cut back to the same knee, to speak with a very limited respect for the calling work we shared together, and for the meetings held with economists, repeateds, and many meetings with fellow communities, with farmers and the public interested in these matters. I speak as a member of this committee that it is simply wrong not to have been listened to the views presented there. It is simply wrong that the committee has not done much with them. Very carefully, there is a report and a report by the Committee that I hope to give. A senator may have read that he did not want to support us eventually. In fact, he did not announce it until the last meeting of the committee that these meetings had not served purpose and that it had not been a good consultation there. In fact, it has continued, as far as the Environment Minister informed us about today. He went on to use the time as a result of the fall from making the case last spring at the center of Covid, and gained greater acceptance with the rural communities for the rest of a very important factor for the organization. You can't talk about it like that, huh? A senator, even though a man is in politics. I am sad to hear the committee chairman who is to receive this matter for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u117	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon responds. Living up to it. A senator who sat on the very committee I eventually dismissed, or from secular work, that the laymen agree with the opinion that viewpoints were taken into account? That's not the case at all, and the tone of a strategist has actually, heard me, progressed since last year, whether it's a tourist service, an outdoor organization, or a community that is next to stand. We see to it that the community that had the greatest opinions on the case in the original, the Blue Forest, stands out in no way from the present viewpoint, and there are people I claim to be reading this letter for a letter, all underlying paws. These fine people are not throwing their hands in their criticisms. Now I have to admit that I think that there's all the light in the political bitch with doubts about what's going on. And then there's a capitalist for itself, which I don't like to cross here in a pant, how it came to me that I told myself about the job of the Committee at the end of that job. That conversation we can talk about. A senator has in the side room if there's an interest in that explanation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u118	I'm sure it would be wise for us to have that conversation just in the side room. But what I heard. A senator today, I think in his first speech, felt that nothing had been done with the views of the committee. I can't remember any better than the point of view. When the members of the committee were discussing this matter with us, of course, the candidate was taken completely equal to the rest of us, with the goal of trying to get together. We were always trying to talk, not tear up. The rest is always very easy, to talk apart. To be honest, I was surprised. A senator would not accompany us at the end. I felt that we had met so far on the right path. Does this not make it possible for individuals to have a clear view of matters? First of all, I mention that the members of the local community were on board with the report, including our opinion. Secondly, I mention, and there I have heard in rural society, that they are very pleased with the change made by the Environment Minister after consultation with them on the planning program, that a protection and innovation plan is not binding to the rural communities when it comes to the disposal of their organisations. Would the community not be pleased to hear their viewpoint, and they are now represented in all the districts and in the government of the National Park? Is it not to consider men's wishes? It was not in the original sense, not in the original ideas, and is not in the control of Lake Earth. I can mention a number of such examples of things that took into consideration viewpoints. The conflicting communities and the hunting communities, which were designed to be negotiated in particular. That's what we took into our suggestion. Right hand out to the people who have activity in the area, that we want them to be partners in this project, reflected in Article 20. The bill. And I could continue this long, but I'll get it into more detail, Mr. President, in my speech below.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u119	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon second answer. I just want to take a little example. Now I know what to do. A senator knows the contents and may be able to fit in even if he is unable to answer again in this circle. Things I'm worried about are like... of verse 15. which says, by permission of the President: A proposal to manage and protect the environment is proposed to each district council. The Government of the Highland National Park reviews the proposals of the district, complies them, and establishes a management and protection plan for the entire national park. Then comes the phrases that worry about: The Commission can make adjustments to the proposals of the district, following the direction of the Council of the Council of Nations. It is certainly obligatory to receive the authority of the council, but it is as a fellow soldier of the court. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, said earlier, he could not expect anyone to accept it whenever a conversation or consultation was made with him on specific matters. It's just that there's a considerable opening. It may be possible to review with the Committee how this will be understood. In the meantime, there are some reasons why the government is really so open that the Home Administration, the Council of the District Conventions, finally ended up on certain points, which directly indicate that the management is in line with the proposals. [[Up front.]] Yeah, but there are six district councils, and that's what you can drum.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u120	A respectable president. Here we are discussing a large case involving the central highlands, our center, and some of us want to go against the motion force. We're going to get the energy that drives the working life and homes in this country. Who can give a shit about this area? That's a question. I hope no one. Here's a bill for a highland park we'll discuss. It looks like who, normal. Of course, we care. We're not supposed to care about this area no matter where we live. I was in a transboundary European committee on energy policy for the country, a committee based on the section of the Treaty of the current government Treaty, which says that energy policy will be based on the expected long - term demand for energy, to form compared with the government's policy on energy change, and how to secure electrical energy supply for the public and professional life. In the 2050 energy policy, we look to sustainable energy for the future. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Iceland is a land of pure energy, where all energy production is of renewable origin. Renewable energy production plays a fundamental role in the fight against climate. Energy is used in a sustainable way by society and the public for the benefit of it. All the energy demand is safely available for longer and shorter periods of time. The land is responsible for sustainable energy efficiency, energy exchange, energy efficiency and efficient multi-energy efficiency. Nature protection and the use of energy resources are cared for, with minimal environmental impacts being achieved. These are high goals that we hope to achieve in 30 years. We can all sign those goals. So when I looked at this bill, I was disappointed that energy policy did not contain ideas on a central nation park, making sure that energy policy and central national parks spoke the same language, although they should not stop energy production, they should continue and the energy crisis is in there too. I was hoping that they would be waiting for the energy policy, that it would be put over it, and that it would talk better. Of course it's some way, but when we talk about the energy security of all the people of the country, we have to make sure that electricity transport pathways are adequate, maintenance and renewal. There have been some voices that although there are wording of transporters and landlines and other factors, this is not sure enough to be safe and that the national energy security of the Icelanders around the country will be guaranteed in an appropriate way, although hopefully it will be. Now the matter will go to a committee, and hopefully it will be handled with greater confidence. Many people have been concerned that existing ground cables are not sufficiently fixed, and maintenance of the current highland transport systems is in place. These are things to be assured of. The media made considerable notice of the bill. They even say so. about energy efficiency: For management and protection programmes, set-up areas of energy, waiting areas of the 3 Framework and the transport routes of electricity in the central area need to be set up, whether they occur within or outside the national park. A new text has to be written into Article 23. based on the results of the discussions of the board on how to examine the energy options of a national bill. M.a. that the energy initiatives of the 3rd and 4rd frames will be considered without link to the national park and that positive laws will be provided in Article 23. the contents. That. that even though energy advantages are within the national park, the benefits should be considered regardless of being within the national park. The interaction of boundaries, reservations of the country, and framelines must be explained and all factors taken into account. It must be ensured that electrical lines and ground cables can be placed within the park range in order to connect new inducers and for renewal, maintenance, and support of the transport system to the future. So many were words. If we want to use and protect the natural world that we are so rich in, it can go together. It must be arranged in the processing of this matter. A respectable president. The Middle East has been entrusted with the people who have built it, used it, and protected it. That is why we can now, 1100 years after land mine, allow ourselves to put up with an idea of a national park in the middle of the country. The people's contribution to protecting the highlands is of utmost importance. Finally, I would like to quote an article published at www.visir.is yesterday, which writes to Friðrik Council Már Sigurðsson, a country in the highlands. It may be inexpensive to start reading from an article after him, but I just felt that his words needed to enter the work being done on the committee. It says: The Treaty of the Government states: a national park will be built in the central highlands, in collaboration with a transnational committee, the Ministry of Environment and Resources, rural society, nature protection and outdoor organizations, and other stakeholders. This scheme thus involves the establishment of a park in harmony with its societies. The importance of consultation and reconciliation is also specifically expressed in laws that can be found in government consultations. The reviews of the Council of Vetra, the Sanitation Society of Taurus, the Hunswater Sippee, the River Valleyship, the Blue Forest, the Crawl of the Forest and other rural society, describe significant concern over the content of the bill, and even go so far in their books as to oppose the establishment of a national park on the highlands. Clearly, then, the covenant set out in the government covenant is not there. As a result, the existing bill for the creation of a national park in the central highlands does not harmonize with the content of the government covenant. So the Environment and Resource Minister's bill has to be taken into account, taking into account the Constitutionary rights of the rural society to self-control. In terms of the limit of the proposed national park in the middle of the country, local administrations must be agreed in case of areas outside of nature's implementation programmes. Thus, legislation on the establishment of a single global park in the centrallands of Iceland cannot really be achieved unless there is such agreement. The concern that so many rural societies have expressed in their comments to the bill is focused on this and is therefore valid. As a result, the General will not be able to accept the bill in the image it is today, which would not take into account the government of the legislators'rights of rural society as a means of self - control. Therefore, it is necessary for the Environment and Resource Minister to step back and seek the approval of the local government for the National Institute of the Netherlands. I take this article into the work that is expected to begin with an environment and transport committee and I wish them all the benefit at that job. I think there are a number of views that have been discussed here today that will be considered. This idea is in the government covenant, and we're just working on it. This is the big project that has to make peace, and it has to be an idea most people have. We are to enter the work as the committee, and all of us are going to the limit. Of course, it is never that everyone will be happy, but on the other hand, we should go as far as possible if we can settle for this assignment. This is a common assignment that we need to have at peace. If the rural areas that lead to the park are to work with and at the power of those who are working to protect the highlands, then we have to keep them from the start. I reiterate my wishes to the Committee for a successful work around it and may it be a good product that comes out of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u121	Mr. President. I'm a rather few guests in this chair, but I'm going to let it happen to me to have a few words on this big subject. I make it clear that I speak here primarily as a member of the Parapolitan Committee, which contributed to the preparation of this matter. That was and is the only assignment I have given myself, apart from being President of the Generals during this terms. It may say something about my feelings for this matter that I agreed to become a member of this group, but it has rejected all requests to accept other jobs in those years. I was also on a cooperative committee, a joint Tripolitic Parliamentary Committee, to prepare the Institute of Watersjörður Park, so I am well acquainted with the case quite far back. In many ways, the work was similar, and the viewpoints and questions we encountered were very similar. It took a similar career to develop that language and to talk together that it was something that was right and good to do. Finally, it was done. It was quite a difficult birth, though, but I don't think anybody would want to back today and stop having national parks in the areas in which there are people. I am absolutely convinced that if the local people in the districts who are in the lakelands were asked now, they would not want to back. That's what I'm afraid to say, at least in the area I know best in the north and east, and in the Cape of the Hornfjord, and in church town, these would be the answers. It has not been a perfect phenomenon, but it has been a dance of roses, but it has developed well and a general pleasure has become with it today. And this has resulted in a great deal of what existed; considerable structure of infrastructure, vast increases in land security and security, and a number of jobs. For example, I met men at Cape Hornfjord, I don't think this summer of 2019, but I was told that more than 20 jobs were created, that young educated people came home from their schools to work in their homes during jobs they dreamed they'd take care of, landkeeping, and security from a Lakeland park. It's in the area, like the Hornfjord. I'm well-known to the highlands, but not as close as I'd like. I once put it on myself--or put forth nothing before, I made it a pleasure to walk the cool end of Iceland, as Örn Arnar said in fact, when he walked the other way, from Langanes Beach and south to study. He did not have fares with the beach cruise ship and walked from Langanes Beach and here at the School of Teachers in Reykjavík and wrote about it: Long is walked by one, It's a rough road and a rod. It's a happy ending to Iceland. East of Langanes Beach. After walking the other way, I found this. I can recommend this method, I can highly recommend it and like men, and if they have the potential for it and health to experience Iceland and get it right into the vein, let it run into marrow and blood, then they're supposed to walk around the highlands in quiet and quiet and at least alone. The best way to experience and gain the land is to walk through it. The second best thing is to ride on a horse. I have strong nerves for this area, I admit it. Someone can just say that I'm biased. All right. But I love it so much, and to me the very own sanctuary of my life must come, e.g. In the pride of Eagle Fall the Great, behold, an amazing grouse above the sea, and the cremation between Kerfells and the Great Eaglefells, up to the top of the Red Sea, where is the heart of Iceland, where is the sanctuary. For us who are not religious, it is certainly possible to go to shrines, which may be different from churches or Mosk. I am so emotionally concerned that we stand for ourselves, the present generation in this country, in our custody of these pearls that lie there. I therefore rejoice that this matter has come here, hoping that the council and the Senate will succeed in their enormously important task of considering it. Of course, one more time you need to review all of this and get new envelopes and call out for guests. I am convinced that this matter can be won over so that the harmony over it becomes more difficult. However, there is evidence that, at this time, 65% of the people favor the establishment of this park, wanting their highland park. It is likely something that humans may do with such seemingly apparent activities, and of course they should seek as good solid solidarity as possible. But I also say without hesitation: This is not so that the last one should have a denial. Is there any small, crying memory thing to deny that this nation can establish its national park on its own land? Because here we are talking about the peoples. We're talking about the old public population of Iceland, which from during the entire history of the world and into the pages of the nation, were nothing more than the public, as has come in the day. The committee chose a way, to settle the problem, to, in fact, draw the least of the denominators, these would be national citizens within the highland line. Is it not, then, quite powerful that in that area the nation can form its national park? I feel that way, and I ask men to keep that in mind when they discuss it from other sources. The committee knew well and was able to get right into their own countries, along with local communities and stakeholders and interested persons, who were either fond of the idea or against it, sort of all the anticipated views, and I knew exactly who they would be because they were exactly the same as when we were preparing for the establishment of a lakeland park. Normal suspiciousness, natural anxiety, and normal questions: Should we begin to take control of ourselves and control it all in the south? No, we said, this will probably be a mdel, à la Lakehjörk National Park, for only because we on the Committee at that time were listed as a model. This has to be made as happy with the areas and the locals as possible. They need to be at ease with the way they handle matters in their territory. And that's how it is in Lake Earth. Besides, there is concern over the local community. But wait, how's this? Companys, elected representatives or management of rural society will be in a greater part of the district council. And so, from the district council, more than a part of the park's national administration is secured, so the rural communities are completely extraordinaryly strong areas in these substances, still more; nature protection organizations, outdoor groups, farmers and other sources that are normally present at the table. And what are people doing with this? They're creating the scene, they're creating a place to cooperate with the people who have to work together for good. There they pick up the problems on the table, discuss them, and solve them, whether because of one road or another. Is that not better than having people shout at one another in separate places? Of course, reaching the affairs of this area into a democraticly structured system of government is a remarkable improvement that is needed to deal with the issues involved. That is one major reason why it is so important to establish this park. This scene is missing today in the entire area outside a Lake Earth park. " Yes, but isn't there a lot of peaceful areas that will be involved? ' Isn't that a good situation? No, there's not a good situation there. These have been in the form of a partial inadequacy. And it is strange that no one here brings it up during the discussion that this bill is being given power to the areas, the locals. The Agency is being moved from the Council of the Environment, as well as from the Management of the Peaceed Districts. The locals have very little to say today, and it's their long way of getting to the impact of the peace-lit areas, but as soon as they go into the park, they get the position I've been drawing up here. Wait, isn't that an improvement? Yes, of course. We stressed this from the start of the Committee, which reflects the bill completely and is the absolutely religious conclusions of the committee, which I believe are important. First, and this has to be said because something else is being said is not disturbed by any traditional applications in this area. They should all continue, of course, under one condition. Are humans opposed to that condition? It's a self-sustaining use. Who has anything against this? That any conventional use; operation, bait, hunting, sports, can stay, but they obviously need to meet the requirements for sustainable development. The local society's concern has been faced with the strategy of the matter that looked like it was going to be difficult and that is what the rural communities mentioned, initially very skeptical of this strategy, were to be binding and protection plans, and they would have to change their organization accordingly. The Minister of Environment has simply met them and said: "All right, they won't be binding, no, no. In itself, there should not be much need to worry about this, as I said, that the rural community will be the dominant member of these management and protection plans, but in addition they each have its own independent planning and do not have to give it afterwards if there is any conflict between what they have agreed in their organization and their management and protection plans. Then society's organization has to sit down and try to figure it out. And that, of course, is what humans will do. So I think that it was totally there that the locals were worried about, and I've heard them say, "Yes, fine, it's been solved. Good. And the situation has improved dramatically. It is claimed in the discussion that nothing was done with the viewpoint the committee received in his work. Hear the endemity. It was almost every attempt to meet such perplexing wishes. I mentioned before in answer, e.g. how to ensure entry into the local community. And it is not just any farmer, it should be farmers who use the art of representing their own rank in the district council. So it will be active farmers who use the territory for which it belongs. There is a requirement for them to represent their members in the district council. Is that not good for you? Third, there were concerns that would somehow be offended at the position of those who were already operating in the area. It is presented specifically by the fact that it is stated, as it were, to the committee, that there will be a right hand for those who are active in the territory, to the travel club, to the outdoors, to the rioting associates, to the hunting partners, and to the rest of those who serve and support local activities. We especially had in mind a party like the Holta Fishing Company and the Landers, who look after the magnificent fishing waters and the surrounding areas. Of course, they are the national co-worker in that area. Terrains in Eyvin's Motives, and fortune-bullows who run a good-looking cabin and base,way of the Galtar River, the Strandyx, what it is now. It would be nice for men to visit and study these areas. There's a bunch of voluntary partners with the National Park. I can see that the types of contracts are being made with such parties, and they get financial support to take care of their territory. They're the best. So the spirit in this case must be and 20. The bill assumes this. As I've come into the past, it really is, in contrast with what is being said in many places during the discussion, being giving big influence and power to the local people in this bill. They have a much stronger position towards all the areas that land within their district with this than from the conditions that exist today, from the state of peace-lit areas that are present in the EEA, so I don't speak about in the area that is nowhere, those lands that just lie between them and where there is no place today. There will be a great change for the better. The distribution model in this has, in my opinion, received far too little attention in this discussion. It is as if humans are always trying to talk away from the turning point because they are going beyond a Lake cold nation, and they were a turning point, not from one central government, but in building up such a scattered system under the direction of the local authorities. Here we continue on that course and go further if there is anything. Finally, Mr. President, I plan to become the prophet, that the generation of Icelandic politicians who reject the task of forming this magnificent, remarkable global park with tremendous opportunities for all of us, will be thanked for centuries in Iceland - for centuries - because we are not taking anything away from anyone by forming this park. We are making sure that objects will be damaged and unmoved for future generations. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u122	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, for his speech. I have to admit, it's a bit refreshing to listen to what's happened. In a speaker's stand, a senator now reminds a man of the time when you are sitting in a room watching the General rather than sitting here in a Senate Hall. Hv. A senator knows the matter quite well, and as he did, he came to the committee. First, I'd like to say that with regard to local planning and the discussion that you have sensed in the community discussion that the rural communities are very concerned about their organizational authority. I hope we can get them through conversation and work with the situation to clean up the discussion and correct it. But I also wondered about 18. g., about staying, company and traffic in the highland park. I feel in the community that there is a lot of fear in this regard. Many of us senators, and most of us certainly, have been e - mailed in these last days, especially pointing out. It seems that the fear of those who use highlands today is that they cannot do so after the sentence of this law, fear that we are pushing people around the highlands, whether they are driving motor vehicles or otherwise, to form bikes, running, or whatever it may be. So I'd like to hear from what? A senator's discussion of this and how he can assure us that people who want to enjoy the highlands can continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u123	You know, about the community. I spent quite a bit of money going over it here because I feel that I'm so understanding about the discussion and somehow transferred from time to time. It's raised anxiety, I know it. Maybe not everyone has had enough research. But the situation in the rural community is immensely well - chosen in this case, and they are given great authority. They are in the greater part of the district council, and they are in the national administration. An innovation and protection programme is not binding to the rural population. Although they are not forced to change their organization, they have concluded that they had expected and helped out, but they may have some community conflict, and they can maintain their special status in that regard. It needs to be resolved. I can't quite figure out why your community should be more afraid now that it's so decided that it's less than a strategy. This is easier than a frame plan. It has been agreed that certain national policies must somehow tie us all together and thus the rural communities. They have a certain amount of time to meet her, etc. but they must yield. There went the holy planning for little, but here it is kept. In terms of traffic and stuff like that and access to the National Park, we're going to put a lot of emphasis on it in our motions, and so does the bill. This, among other things, is the purpose of making good access to the park so that its people and tourists can enjoy it, but it can be controlled and kept in check that it does not choose any talk. I don't see anything dangerous in this 18th floor. unless it's 3rd. Start with the words: The greatest motorized vehicles at national parks are forbidden. Is there anyone against this? I've been asking, "Where's the disagreement? Where is that noodle, for example? On the road to Lake Earth? Usually, there is only one issue in humans that is not permitted to drive through the Pass of Hope.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u124	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. In fact, I'm convinced that in a highland park, there is a great opportunity, but I think we all feel that there is anxiety about what this changing arrangement means. We are anxious to see how we can reconcile our protection and use and enjoyment. I see that the Committee was also assigned to define the boundaries of the park and emphasize the division of land within it into a reservation. I also see that the bill is demarks an area at the so - called highland line as it was defined in a national planning policy of its time. I wondered what discussion took place in the staff to follow this line and whether the discussion was to some extent about whether it was a reason to shrink the area in order to be more at peace with the idea. I've heard that people are also afraid of the extent, so I've wondered if there's some way to get more and more comfortable with it, to reduce the size of something and to look at it in some way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u125	Mr. President. Only in addition to 18. g., about traffic and stay, I draw attention to 5 mgr. That's interesting. For there I suppose, new things are going along after much discussion in the committee. It is possible to bind the use of certain roads, limit them and attach them to the specific resource use or use to a specific purpose. This is their wish, e.g. Roads lead to rights, and humans are used for flattery, poor roads that do not tolerate traffic, and are not ideal only because it's called the way they are, they can travel there at all times of the year as they please. It's no secret that the roads and traffic are things that have lasted for a long time to get a better grip on. Happily, a lot of work has been done to record these paths and roads and to address them. There's an interesting newcomer that I think can be of great benefit to you. Regarding the boundary and discussion. Yes, there were no petty debates about it, for it was natural among the major subjects, and we rolled each stone, as it were, but soon reached this conclusion, to try to make more peace, not to try to stretch ourselves beyond the highland line, except when a peace-lit area submerged through it, and rather that it had been very tempting, e.g. In my case, trying to get the surrounding highlands that would do very well with the National Park. I can name the areas east of the lava and the desert up to Lino, who, of course, had a very good place in this highland park, who are outside of either national or central highland line, and we decided to go this way at the beginning. The future will include it, I predict, that after that this park will grow to the wishes of the natives, just as the Lake Earth has done. But in a few cases, it has been added to the surrounding areas simply because they saw that it was for the best and especially the districts, and then the situation would be better controlled.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u126	Then the President falls out of a picture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u127	Am I supposed to be on my knees? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] V.E.G. President. I could be on my knees for a president to see better, but there he is. [[Up front.]] We're discussing a bill on a Highland National Park law here, and it's been interesting to listen to the Senate hearings today, and a few things have been reported. I'm sure I'm wearing this crying part of my head right now. A senator talked about before I did. Even though I haven't cried very loud for a few years, I feel it's all right, even though I'm wearing them crying my share. I'm not against nature protection or the highland park concept in itself, but after more research, I feel that there are some things I need to consider. It is of interest that two members of the government, an independent party and a forwarding party, are giving this great warning on this matter and that they were not before the trial was given so that the government could only bring this matter to the council. But that's what it looks like, and that's how it's gonna work. Hv. paritaprevir The Stigrim J. Sigfússon gave an inspired talk that he had walked across the high country, across the country, talking about shrines on the highlands. I can totally say that things are really beautiful in the highlands, but this shrine had a bad experience. A senator, though, before a high - nation park became a reality. And if this is done to a highland park, then what will it be like? The highlands have been there for several thousand years, and its shrines are not in immediate danger. I think people get a little carried away with talking about the fact that this case has to be over, otherwise there's trouble. I'd like to finish this case with a view that all the advantages available today are talked about sustainability - being different then and that's exactly what I've been reading about the bill today, because I haven't studied this matter on the depth, since I'm not in trouble. The Environment and Transport Committee, but I still am a naturalist and a naturalist in my chest, even though I am not declared in this regard. I'd like to mention, too, that there's been a lot of talk in parks, such as Snæfells and Horn Beach, and in many respects it's probably true. Yet, there is hardly a mire in those areas anymore because foxes and minks have grown to the point that they have scattered their maroes and are down into settlements, so farmers are in trouble with this product. There's something I've asked the environmental minister that, like the fox, and then I've got the answer that this is because the fox has come ashore before the man and should be left alone somewhere. I don't buy that explanation exactly. I and others are very concerned that we can still use electronic energy. It must be that way in the future, we need more electrical energy. That's what it says. If we're going to build up and increase the population of the country and the opportunities we're going to need electricity and the best thing we can do is get too far too far out of the country, and there's been a lot of electricity and lines about the country. This was evident in the last winter when the bad weather struck the country, and many parts of the land were out of power because of it. Then the bad dream arose that the delivery of electricity was not good at all, and the one standing here, and many more pointed to it for many years. V.E.G. President. I just want to quote a review from Landsnet, by permission of a president: In the early stages of the case, a net has made some comments to the subsidiary text code of the National Park Institute in the Middle East and has been taken into account in part of their comments in 1 mg. 1 1. the bill of the current electrical transport initiatives. However, the Landsnet indication of the future transport structure has not been taken into account but is in 4 mg. 1 1. Draws suggest that new high - power lines in the air are not allowed within the national park in the central highlands. Landnet believes that the proposal has a significant impact on the ability for the development of electricity transport systems. In fact, a bit of a misunderstanding has been observed that all of this can be put together in an earthline. People, mainly from Landsnets, have been made quite clear that it is not so simple to do because earth cables do not carry the high power that is placed in the delivery systems of electricity only with certain distances. The earth needs to be unpacked and transferred to air lines. It's just a fact. This cannot be changed by some technical progress. It's just natural. It's just the way it is. So here comes a huge text, but I'm only gonna kill down to the latter part of the narrative, by permission of president: ▪ The proposal for the bill to legalize the ban on new air lines within a highland park goes far beyond the General Assembly's interpretation of the future transport system. There they are at the Landsnet to refer to the synopsis of the future power transfer system. It conflicts with a number of factors involved in this bill on a highland park. I continue to read from the review: As noted in the previous comments of the Landsnet, the company has the legal obligation to publish a scheme adopted by the Power Institute, prior to a broad narrative. The plan has even. A certain position towards the development of rural programmes. The programme consists of the long-term programme on the aspects of the main transport system designed to build up or update in the next ten years and on the other hand, a programme showing investment decisions in the transport system over the next three years. It is important that this programme should be taken into account and set aside space for supply of the transport system, in line with its long-term policy threshold. All systems programmes for the aim of ensuring that national access is leveled regardless of their habitat that cleaner renewables include some of the future construction of the transport system within the limits of the park's proposed national park. The responsible use of energy workers and circumstances includes the ability to generate electrical energy between land areas. - The responsible use of power workers. It may be seen that the transport system will cover some of the areas within the range of national parks. There are now extensive technical restrictions on the fixation of land cables in that part of the transport system. - Like I came in earlier with the ground cables. With reference to this, Landsnet strongly objects that the bill says no air lines within the boundaries of the park. This may reduce the ability to improve the availability of electricity users to the future and prevent the practical use of clean energy resources. So many were words. Surely we would not want to prevent and reduce the ability to increase the overall security of electricity to the future. It can't be that we want it, Americans. V.E.G. President. I see that time is running fast, and I had some comments that I wanted to quote. I'd like to introduce to you another review from the Blue Forest countryside, by permission of a president: ▪ The European Commission of the Blue Forest requires plans for the establishment of a park for environmental assessment. Environmental assessments, including society, environment, culture, costs, etc. These factors must be evaluated, since neither consultation nor analysis of its benefits and defects should be made whether a national park should be formed or not. At the early level, the Blue Forest has provided comments to all parapolitic proposals regarding unique emphasises and billigrams. The development of a park in the Middle East, as expected by the bill series, reiterates their previous comments by the development of a national park in the Middle East. It's a little different than just mentioned in the preceding talk. The main comments made by the Blue Forest region will be developed here: The development of the rural planning body is too high, where management and protection programmes apply above the development of rural programmes. The arrival of a partner in the management of the within-depth areas will not be sufficient to allow for the projections. The Blue Forest establishes past doubts about promises of capital and expected income and continues to point to the twin skin that is, on the other hand, based on views of peace and protection, environmental and climate, and, on the other hand, the view of national economic practicality that is involved in creating strong labels that attract a number of people. It is then noted that the public's access to national land areas will be limited by reimbursement and increased control. This will be expected to reduce the contribution of volunteers who have contributed to plant protection and healing, meaning and service to those in the area. Agricultural administration also makes a comment to the widely distributed secretary's permission for rules relating to boundaries, peace descriptions, etc. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. President. My speech session is over, and I wish to be put back on the rosary because I wasn't finished with what I was going to talk about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u128	A respectable president. We here discuss matters that are typical of today's politics and their main problem, which is, unfortunately, that today's politics revolve around the packaging rather than the content, the name of the cases, and their declared goals rather than the methods that men suggest to achieve them. And now we ask, Who can resist the establishment of a park? Don't we all want to protect nature? But this is also a typical case for this government, this system administration, and now we see who is actually in charge, i.e. If you have the highest. The president hasn't figured it out, the left movement of the green bid. Hv. Some have expressed themselves here today, but not directly. On the contrary, they have tried in some way to excuse the coming of this matter. Interestingly, such a large issue, which concerns much of Iceland's territory and its future and therefore the nation's interests, has been established without even agreeing with it. But again with the label, labels, or labels, and what we've heard in our discussion today, in the form of claims that there's something wrong with humans protecting nature or forming a park. Then, with the same reasoning as we have heard from the supporters of the case today, you might not say that the whole country was going to be a national park, or at least Snæfells, a unique region in Iceland and world, or all the Westerns, all of East East East East East East, the southernmost part of the country, the coast of Southland, the fabulous Island Fjords, the Parliaments, the Moths and the Grinch, I'm not talking about it. Would not the same reasoning as we have heard of a highland park apply to this part of the land and, in fact, more so if we overlook the content of the matter? The contents hide it, including This means that the most suitable area to produce green, renewable, environmentally-friendly energy is actually decommissioned and replaced by democratic government in the country. And how would it affect other areas, other parts of the country, if environmental energy could no longer be created, where it fits best in certain areas of the highlands and transports energy there? It would mean that they would have to be produced elsewhere, carrying them through the regions surrounding the country and around this coming highland park. It also speaks of the importance of protecting the highlands from tourists. Not many years have it been that by summer, the roads of the highlands had not been opened. Nevertheless, the number of tourists in Iceland was high. None of them, not one of them, had gone into the highlands, but they had come to see natural spheres all around the country. So now we hear a strange paradox saying that this matter is presented here to prevent the intimidation of tourists and, on the other hand, to attract tourists into the highlands. Hv. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, one of the chief officials of the government in this case, explained that we needed to get close to the tourism in the highlands, while at the same time, he explained, would be in the midst of this vast array of possibilities for advertising the highlands, to attract tourists. What, then, is the purpose of these conflicting goals? Is it to be some sort of highland area where those who can afford to buy can travel and enjoy themselves, while others will be kept out of the way at the same time? That's at least Very peculiarly supported in such a big point, that at the same time as they plan to restrict the access of tourists, they plan to attract tourists. In Britain many national parks are similar to many of our neighboring countries. There are towns, large towns even, roads, energy transport, airports, and so forth. But this seems to be to define much of the country as a national park in order to prevent man's presence, to prevent environmental energy efficiency and to prevent people, the people of Iceland and even foreign tourists from traveling there and enjoying nature on the highlands. Do we prefer to attack every structure required outside of the highland area, to build some of the activated areas, and to attack energy transport? Don't you think it's environmental damage, Mr. President, if we go through the fairest territory in the country outside the highlands? We have also heard of today's discussion that there is a great shortage of people who speak the language can explain the need for this matter because, as a boy, it is. The head of the Environment and Transport Committee was a good guide in his case, and it is already possible to reach the stated objectives of this issue without this bill. What's the plan? What is the real purpose of this bill? I think we know, Mr. President. The plan is to save a large part of Iceland from democratic control in order to introduce certain extremes there. We've seen it happen before, in other areas. We've seen how the system works. It is often presented with a beautiful vow and beautiful statement about the goals, but once the council has made it a point not long before the matter is said: " Wait, you accept this case, and therefore you cannot do this; and hence, we need to rely on the government of the system. ' What's most peculiar about this is that this is totally out of the context of a declared environmental objective, the main objective that the government has set for the environment. And what are their goals? Yes, the aims of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, as Iceland makes renewable, green, environmental energy and makes much of it in the highlands. In this process, additional production is actually being taken, thereby increasing the production of energy elsewhere, to which the energy is, for example, an energy source. produced by coal burns. The world's energy demand grows each year. It grows by 2% or so every year. Since humans are not taking advantage of the opportunities, in agreement with nature, such as the spokesmen of this case would probably call it, to produce environmental energy, energy is being moved into countries where it is involved in burning coal. This issue, therefore, involves not only the limitation of the country's ability to travel through the country and to enjoy the highlands that we all love but also the potential for greenhouse gas emissions. You wonder, " How does such a situation come about? ' Of course, initially in a group that has a very narrow view of these matters, they do not view the overall picture. But how can it be said that a government made up of three categories makes the issue appear to be unat least. two of the classes agree with it and count it as ready, and intend to go through as fast as possible? It could be that this is the old trick of presenting a case that's insane enough to then make a slight change in it and bring it back and say, "Well, now we've taken into account the comment and the spoken language, and it's better if it's still wrong. That's what I'm afraid of, Mr. President. Based on the discussion here today and the response of two of our administration groups, I'm afraid that it's what we see here that there's a completely crazy case coming up here and thinking, and then it comes back in a slight change, and then we'll be told that it's time to finish it. Mr. President. If we view Iceland's highlands as sacred, if we take the national approach to this, almost religious, that the highlands of Iceland are special and sacred to us Icelanders, I can quite understand that approach, because there is a beautiful landscape and beautiful wilderness all over the world. But if this is a sacred region for us Icelanders, it is also appropriate that we approach it in that way. Instead of closing off the temple, we should open it, let people enjoy nature, and use the natural energy to produce energy for Iceland and for the world at the same time. In this matter, there are a number of points to make a comment. One of them is that according to national park plans, a minister can expand the park by law - and again by law - I will remember the highest. A president, as we know, why the foxes are cut; this is designed to initiate the system in its path so that nothing will stop it. But is it democratic that a minister can by law decide to move the line forward? And is it democratic to take much of the country out of the democratic regime? We in the Middle East agree that we do not. There are already about 70% of the energy produced in the highlands, and here we will discuss a bill that allows for taking the high level into the so-called IUCN category, Class II, which will simply translate into transport and production of energy will no longer be allowed. In fact, I don't expect people to shut down the already existing activations, and yet, you never know from the way the trend has been. But it seems at least It is clear that further environmental energy production will not be achieved in Iceland's highlands, even in areas where opportunities are best available. And that's an upset frame plan, not just that, but that's being thrown into the trash. We can see what we could tell ourselves, Mr. President, that participation in the most severe of the left side of those plans was always intended to push matters in one direction rather than to achieve a natural reconciliation and conclusion. This is an enormous case, and now I have to inform the highest level. That I am just about to get started with the opening door to the beginning of my talk, so I have to pray to the highest level of prayer. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u129	Mr. President. I rejoice in the idea of forming a highland park. The highland is the shared resource of all of us, an important natural treasure. The goals published on the bill behind the park's establishment are not of a worse end. It is a lofty, social, valuable purpose, a priceless resource. To protect and protect such a resource from waste and waste should be considered a small matter. It should be obvious that sustainable development, job and valuable creation, protection of the colporteurs and fleas, recovery of ecosystems, structure and development of settlements, as well as the ideal to preserve certain areas of the future so that the public can enjoy them not only well, but also a beautiful, even romantic concept. National parks are paying off. Experience shows that the funding given to national parks comes far back. It is not that excel document or direct input and emissions of capital are the only measure of value in the community sense. In spite of these beautiful goals, however, it is clear in the light of reports and discussions that there are very different opinions about the provision made by the government. There is widespread concern about the planning of rural society, of activation programmes, of public activism and access, of the authority of the Minister and the use of high-level resources. V.E.G. Environment Minister has answered questions publicly to those who are concerned about the matter. Doesn't seem enough, though. Despite extensive consultations, there is turmoil and uncertainty, despite strong answers that should eliminate uncertainty. It is not good to know that such a national priority is in that place. They need further discussions about the individual teams of the bill and how it affects different groups and stakeholders. I encourage it. The Environment and Transport Committee will take this into account when handling the case according to the Convention, and it would be best if the national park was in the greatest agreement of the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u130	V.E.G. President. At times, it is good to be progressive when there is much need. In my talk earlier, when I discussed a bill about a highland park, I read and discussed the comments that I have been going over here today. A lot of people are pretty good or interesting. Here's a story from a man who's east who knows Lake Bay Park very well. I'd like to quote it, by permission of the President: I believe that the development of a law project on the establishment of a highland park and the delinquency of a Lake Earth park is not timely at all, and I would like to mention some of the points in support of: Since the establishment of a Lake Earth park, there has been a lack of funding to carry out the national park. A sufficient number of groundkeepers have not been hired for protection within the park. The investments needed to build a local information source and control the park have not been put in place. The road has not been made to take care of the roads and roads they are responsible for under road laws, road repairs, and maintenance of roads within national parks. A dispute has developed between the national park and the forestry that oversees national forests, taking care of national forests of the park, along with those of the Jack Gorges. Despite the long history of the fine national park, there are certain weaknesses and needs to be considered very well if it is to develop a highland park into which the present Sealand nation of Israel enters. If I keep going a little bit, with permission of the highest power. President: ▪ The present Waterjörg Nation organization is based on agreement with adjacent rural communities, which was made with the decision for the garden's establishment. In many cases since then, the law has been tried to change without consulting any of the societies that have been given to the park, despite the laws of the original law, and with great effort to prevent these changes. There has been a tendency for this to be an institution in Reykjavík as a member of the countryside and for the peoples of the areas where the park owns the country has nothing to do with its affairs. It is aimed to remove all control from your community. This review shows something different than what has been said in the talks of those making the decision. It's hard to know if the case is correct. And the establishment of the National Park is a step backwards, a series of dictators instead of democracies. The Council becomes one officer who needs only to apply his own convictions. A management program that has been used for the management of Lake Earth's habitat is still developing. Then let's complete our development before we begin to establish a new organization. The point is, however, that in one report after another, preparatory work is called upon to be completed before the major task being carried out in the establishment of a highland park. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u131	President. We'll discuss a bill to legalize the Highland Park. We've been discussing it more and less all day, and we've been dealing with many things. I wanted to discuss this document in the big context, i.e. in connection with other government-based policy plans, most of which have been approved here in the Senate Hall. A highland national park is called upon to refer to the government's policy-making plans. Then I'm talking about a framework plan, a transport plan, and a long-term energy policy to 2050, which is actually a government policy with which a cross-cutting group has been working and is not in this chamber. We are still waiting to see how we are going to rise to the wind. Then it is a synopsis of government policy on the building of electricity transport systems, which is recommended by the Council to cooperate with it in the context of Article 39. August, No. 65/2003, i.e. that, in the construction of the electrical transport systems, including the implementation of a system plan, the policy shown in the synonym of this procedure will be guided. The course we agreed on a year or two ago is referred to by the highland park. There's two things I'd like to talk about. On one hand, there are roads and roads in the highlands and how they are referred to as a bill on a highland park. Then we're talking about explosion land, Kjal Road, Mountain South and Mountain North, and how it all works. However, it is energy production and energy transport from the activation in the highlands. There has now been a significant discussion of peripheral areas and sites of activation. There may have been less discussions about the transport systems of electricity and how to solve them. It shows that we are generally talking about the laws of the land all around the country. It's been shallow. The so - called genies have been spoken of in this context, which would be about explosion sand, and how we connect the energy areas in the Þjórður area to that of, where about half of the energy in the country is produced, to the northern region from the blending point of the River Valley Station, where one of the things is produced by energy. These areas are divided by about half. Other than that, they produce something more than 1,000 MWs per area. This needs to be connected, and that's part of the Congress resolution I was talking about earlier. It turns to energy security and how we are going to handle it. When we take 30% of the country, the whole of the highlands, under a highland park, we need to decide how we will handle it in this context. There has been great opposition to air lines across the highlands. In the System Plan and in the implementation of the previous System Plans of the Landsnet, there have been some of the results. There are ideas about AC strings, maybe 50 miles of strings. But there is not considered an acceptable solution in a highland park, so there is now talk of a DC string over the highlands as an option. This could cost some 181⁄220 billion and is an enormous project. The national park has not been completed on how to ensure this electrical transport. The fourth industrial revolution is in the near future, and communication and energy are said to be the basis for it. We're looking into the future and the energy change. This energy exchange is a major challenge to solve, as we see here within the country, of which there are 1,000 MWs. This is part of that vision. Then it is extremely important for energy generation in general, even for exporting electrical fuels, in winters, and in other things in the future, that we make the best use of our entire electrical systems. Work on the energy policy that ended in the fall and has been introduced, but I was one of the parapolitics involved in it, showing the inefficiency of the electrical system. This requires improving energy transport to improve the use of electricity across the country. It is extremely important for me to know that there is more to the work involved with a highland park. I don't feel that there's an adequate answer to how to handle this. Another thing I mentioned earlier about wind power. This high-national bill provides a poor answer to how we are going to handle these issues. It appears that the images drawn in this park, in peripheral regions around it, and their impact areas, have largely excluded the possible use of wind energy in the country. It is just a northeast corner and perhaps some area is lost on the land that would be useful to it. However, wind power is the factor that can help us to strengthen the electrical power system and its use, which could create work and income for society. It may be one of the most exciting things about the electrical power system and what potential we will see there in the next stages. This is one factor that clearly needs to be considered even better. There has also been much discussion today about the planning of rural society and their presence in the matter. The presence of the rural areas in these areas should be clear about land and other factors and how to manage them. This is one of the major factors that cause certain problems and uncertainty in connection with the matter. In terms of the public court, they must not be restricted to areas that have used them before. So there is much to consider in this matter. That mine knows there's going to be quite a bit of work to be done. There is still much work to do in reaching out for the huge and important projects I have listed here and for the overall interest in it. So, as far as I'm concerned, it's quite a long time to settle matters. I don't see how to support the case as it is suggested while all this uncertainty abounds over all the factors I've been running on here and in context of all the dating plans I mentioned earlier in this larger context. There's still a lot of work to be done, and I don't see that there's enough time to get it done in this council winter. It takes at least working very well on many major issues and integrating all the big plans I've mentioned here. It is also appropriate to refer to the classification of IUCN, the international nature protection organization, where the whole park is cast into Class II. If I recall correctly, similar words are used in the 47th chapter. Natural protection laws. I think all of this must be considered in a more context and also the possibility that there may be different categories of the park for the individual areas, if one is going to take it all the way. So there is much work to be done. Good luck with the Environmental and Transport Committee to deal with the project. We need to finish much in order to explain the matter if we are to see how to support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u132	V.E.G. President. I have listened attentively to the discussions that have been here today. There are some things that will stand out after that. Actually, I don't quite understand why the government groups are going to present a case that seems to be in complete turmoil, already that festival of light and peace. I just don't get it. I've thought that this bill is one of two; a survey or even a occult mistrust proposal, because if this case doesn't pass here at the council - or does the government trust, this vast government with the broad appeal, that representatives of the government will come to help and help the case through the council? I think it's very interesting that this is the way men contribute to it because there is clearly no unity in the management team on this subject. This has been evident in the talks of the Generals all day long, whether they are independent or forwardees. There's public notice everywhere, and so on. So this case will not be an easy subject for the government or government community. But there's something else I've been watching, too. This matter can be viewed in the context of other things that did not take place in the past. Then I'm talking about an institution of Lake Bay Park back then, probably 1996, if I'm not mistaken. So it was with a lakeland park in its time that the park's establishment followed a declaration of what should be done in the National Park to make it move to do its job. But the declaration, which is now a fairly thick book or booklet, did not follow enough funds, so the Lake Earth park in itself started a weak water park, i.e. not completely financed. Men are still building essential foundations in that garden so that they can do their job. My job is now to run to and set up a new park. I have to say, one of the things I felt I was getting out of, especially for those who spoke most of that park today, was that it would be the largest national park in Europe. Well, Mr. President, I've got to admit it. There are other people in this house who have been accused of genocide than the ones up there today, that this might be one of the most remarkable things that was happening there. I was going to go back to policy, for in itself it is a very simple matter after a certain job to sign a document about either the peaceful conditions of a certain area or the establishment of a park somewhere. It's the easy part, like you say. But the hard part is that, i.e. If the money comes along, that the park will live up to its name and be able to fulfill its purpose. In fact, there are paradoxs in the way this matter is presented. The case is presented to protect the continent of Iceland, about 30% of the country's territory. But also it is said not to build services, tourism, etc. I wonder, Mr. President, because I sometimes enter the Landsaholics and the Peacelands of the Mountainback, far too seldom, that I'm doing a little more and more of this because there's an example of a beautiful area that's been protected, but there's not enough land. There's an outback driving to a greater extent than you've seen in many countries, and there's no way because money has not been followed to ensure adequate groundkeeping, as surely as there must be a need for land in this magnitude and in the diversity of landscapes as there is. It has also been said that great consultations have been made with all parties, much talk of the arrival of farmers in part - time governments, i.e. The parts of the country that stand at the park. It's so remarkable that if I remember correctly, all the reviews that you've read at the previous donation of a similar situation here at the beginning of the year - that is, for example. It's a review of Iceland's Farms Association, where it's going to go against the fact that it's going to be done. There are reviews from rural communities that, if I don't break, lie at all parts of this proposed national park where the government says, "No, we don't want this to be done in this way. Then there is a large part of outdoors, tourists, i.e. The traveling club, which may well fit what was here called a little crying less things. Maybe this is part of it, I won't say about it. Today, people have also discussed the fact that this area is not only in the territories of rural society, land users and landowners to which they live, but it is the territory of all the people. I don't know how these same people look, e.g. in the country under the city of Reykjavík, that it is a land that all the people should have, have, and/or have a request for a new future. This smells like fluffy, and that's not very reassuring, Mr. President. I think it's high in another hundred countries that have been emancipated in Iceland, and many of them in the last 20 years. Then we also have areas called natural resources, etc. If I think back 40 years in time, about the time I spent in the Middle East in the vicinity of the Helgi Institute, I can remember that men, both foreign and domestic, had the fun of emptying and scrutinizing the mine because there was no janitor. The first thing I heard in that area was about five years ago, when there was one jailer in half his job in summer, he was probably in the area from noon till 18 p.m., or something like that. Each person sees this one point that this has not been accomplished, as it should be, because we have not had enough money to do all the things we've wanted to do and are urgent. So I say again: I don't think that men have learned anything from the things that have happened in these cases all over the past decade, because they are going to put on this matter as planned, in the opposition they are in, without itself realizing that we have money for each other, I don't speak about in the present condition. As we look at the face of over 100 billion angles in the state funds for the next two, three, four years, I don't quite see it happening. I can see, too, that the target is similar to the structure of government to that of a Lake Earth park. I'd like to quote that it's not too long since Our State's Accounting issued a report that found out how that administrative arrangement worked, and this is now being revised. In the same report, the Government Accounting pointed to what I have done here as a subject of my speech, i.e. that funds were not accompanied by the establishment of a Lake Earth park. I think, Mr. President, that we simply need to, then I'm talking about the council, I don't talk about the vast government, preparing a case of this size much better than it does here. If this case is accepted in the present costume, I fear that the park will not live up to its expectations, and that it will in short measure be neither bird nor fish. In itself, I would have advised the government with this broad appeal not to make a lot of it now as to whether it has more to do with this matter at the council, but to think further on the matter and to get at least some peace in its own time before it is presented here. Mr. President. I think it would be a good thing to present a case of this magnitude to the council in broad solidarity, not in the same issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u133	Mr. President. Again, we will discuss a bill about the establishment of a central national park. I have today, and tonight I have listened to some speeches why. Senators on this matter. My position on the matter remains the same and is, in fact, simple: No. I say no. I think this is way too big a step to take. I'm primarily of the opinion that we should gain more experience in national parks and especially the larger. In fact, I consider myself a lot of natureists, even though I may be counted among the crying less things, which are common. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask then called in a talk earlier tonight, likely referring to those who do not want to make much of the country a national park. I believe a lot of work is not involved in working with the agencies that might be described as stakeholders in this case and not taking shorter steps and making specific areas of the parks before taking this giant step. And with whom should we work to make that peace? I can name farmers who have grown up there, and many of them have done a good job making up the country, maintaining it, and guarding it, for they have an age - old right. I also mention those who have hunting rights, which are often the same people, farmers, in adjacent areas, but also those who have used the highlands, such as tourism, tourism, walking clubs, and other such parties, as well as those who have built some kind of happy houses in this area, but they are many in the highlands, and in fact, there are many of these cases the same parties mentioned here. Of course, we should have more experience in this regard before we take up the assignment. When we find that the progress of the case and the treatment of the case, to the head of this bill, it refers to whether or not such ideas as my country's institutions, e.g. interconnected or in other parts of the world, the water supply has been considered to be the case. Why the paradox to go into such a huge national park? Where have you come from, Mr. President? Where has it come from, and for what purpose? They're going to do something they can't handle. They're going to set up a highland park over a third of the country with the experience in the fishlands we have of a lakey national park that's been a lot different. In order to make some kind of reference to having the largest national park in Europe located in this country, they are going to be able to boast about it. That's all there is to it. We're going to go out on this project knowing that they don't have the opportunity to do it decently. I simply insist that we learn before going so far as we can see in this matter. I see my time is moving really fast. I'm just gonna go over these political lines, and so are other things. The position of the ruling parties, especially of the two people who have expressed doubts about this matter, is extremely peculiar. In particular, in the last few seconds, I want to call attention to the candidates who have wanted to strengthen the rural community in a case that is in partnership but are then acting on this matter, and then on the board, and thus weaken their communities, by taking their planning.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u134	President. I understand I only have five more minutes to discuss this big issue in the year 1. So I intend to look at one of its main characteristics in the broad context. In my first speech, I spoke of this as part of image politics or government affairs that it truly is. But I have a measure of concern that with this matter, a vision has been appearing that has been increasing, strengthened, especially by movement on the left side, which involves some way that nature is a sacred phenomenon and man is a foreign body, that nature is almost divine, but man's problem. This is not a good way to get close to humans to nature. Of course, nature is important to us, but we humans need to view nature as something we want to protect from us, not from man, but from shutting nature off from mankind. With this bill, which in many ways is extreme, as can be seen from represented at least Two government groups have not trusted to support it here in the discussion today, is doing this, shutting off the natural world, and viewing it as almost undesirable. But man, in many ways, makes nature so much better and hopefully uses it most wisely. The fact that we humans exist in nature is in my opinion to make nature more valuable. Consider, for example, our first national park in Iceland, the Middle East. If you stand at the Hacuna and look over the Þinga, is it not a more beautiful and remarkable vision when we see the House and the Church rather than there's no sign of man's coming, about the story? The same is true of the highlands. We all want to say, I think it's safe to say, Icelanders, to protect the highlands, but we want to maintain the man's relationship with the highlands. And although this link is visible in some cases, such as when we produce environmentally friendly green energy or when we make the infrastructure that makes most Icelanders able to travel through the country and enjoy it, we are not making the highlands less. We're working on it. We're adding to nature. What I find shocking about this is that it means that man is unacquainted in nature, that he just wants to know about it in his place completely uninhabitable, even unseen, but should not be there himself, not at least. not to show any sign of his presence. Of course, it has so many other issues, as if I were only able to fit in with my first talk, as it is perhaps closing the main contribution of the Icelanders to the environment. The biggest environmental issue on a global scale is climate. The government is now largely shutting down the possibility of Iceland's people in order to continue to produce good results and, at the same time, to take a democratic right of the people of the land, the right to control their land, and the right to enjoy their country's freedom to travel throughout their land, and to enjoy the cost it has to offer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u135	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. Congress members for taking part in this discussion today, which has been a fine thing. I would like to specifically include some of the points that have been discussed here, but before I do so, I would like to thank those members of the transnational committee who gave the job and the report on which the bill is based. I want to start by coming in a little bit of time, i.e. the points that have been mentioned on how much preparation has been made in this matter. I'd like to specifically mention that this case has been discussed in the management system, in the Environment and Resource Ministry and elsewhere, for four and a half years. It was the basis for initial intelligence with a report by Sigrún Magnúsdóttir on the use and protection of the region, and this report is available. Then it was the Senate Committee, which has been referred to many times today, that gave its good report. Like a snooze. paritaprevir Will, Árnason, mentioned earlier, has faced many of the points presented, but hasn't he? A senator also mentioned that things have not been done, for all of us know that there will be some things that will not be accomplished until the National Park has been established and that will establish a government arrangement that will make it possible for them to accomplish all that the finest Senate committee had to do. I'd like to mention, because here was also asking how long would it take to complete a management and protection programme and how long it would take to make a professional policy, that if we look at the experience of a Lake-Elven nation then it took about two years to complete a management and protection programme and it took about three years to establish a professional policy from having it inserted into the law. I think we need two or three years to be careful with running a management and protection program for a highland park but the professional policy should be able to take less time. I'd like to mention just what a few members of the Parliament came across the perimeters and energy efficiencys. Among other things, the waiting party was described as wide open to activation, but of course not true. If we compare the status of the activation initiatives currently included in a waiting frame of frame management in the highlands as it is today and the setting of the bill here assumes these areas, if any, greater protection will be provided by the bill, since this is a national park. However, this does not mean that areas could be added. This needs to be evident when the work of a frame plan ends on these topics. It was necessary for the fortresses to be in the highlands, not part of the park, but in its perimeters. That was the case, and I'm sure it was. It has been claimed here that they are closing the highlands. I'm asking, is this bill closing the highlands? No, such statements are quite wrong. The aims are clear to facilitate access, paragraph 18. is clear about this, and this has been the occasion for the continuation of people and access to national parks to be ensured. People are being built up to be received, provided for education, increased security, positive local experiences, and so forth. There's also been quite a few discussions about the prognostic factors and analyses, including discussed the matter. Gunnarsson That's Jón Gunnar's. I just want to mention in relation to the fact that the committees here were formed, two committees, have attacked it. I'd also like to mention studies that have shown that the funding given in nature protection is greatly reversible, especially to local areas. I also want to introduce to you what has been discussed about traditional uses. It is clear that these are laws that have been passed on national parks. This will become a reality in which traditional uses are specifically proposed. It's important to me that we do. And why is this being done? For one thing, local, rural, rural, demand is being met. And speaking of unrewarded consultations - it worked, for example. in this. The programmes and regulations that will apply to traditional use will, of course, apply to the whole country, whether in sustainable land use or in the fishing of wild birds and animals. So here is what both the committee presented and what has been discussed with me on my journey to the country on this matter. It's been here. Rather, it has been said a lot about consultation or, rather, the alleged lack of communication. The way the anti - political committee went through the country has been through, has gathered information, and is based on a large proportion of the bill. I found myself with every government in the country to the highlands. We found solutions to things that have particular concern to the planning. I listened to their viewpoints, and I met them. I don't know what community they're up to. The senators who have referred to it tonight are here to refer. The communities I left behind for the summer, after putting on my desk this proposal to manage and protect plans should not be binding to organized rural society, said to me, "This is a good step. It's the information I have, and on it I based the fact, or at least my opinion that here I have truly listened to a point of view and even came here. That's fine. I must say exactly as it is that I find the presentation of some members of Congress here tonight, and especially the members of the Central Party, to be misleading. It presents deliberate misleading debates and false statements that I find incompetently difficult to accept. I've traced some of it, e.g. depending on the discussion, e.g. In this case, shutting everything down, etc. This is, in my opinion, an information mess at the Central Party. I'd like to introduce to you something else that's been talked about, and that's the object of the local resistance. I know it's very well that there are different opinions in the community, that's probably the best I know of people. But are all societies against this idea? You'd think you'd keep up the conversation tonight. Most are quoted in the Blue Forest, and, in fact, a story that the Blue Forest built in by the waves of the bill that was playing a puzzle last year. There may still be the same opinion in the Blue Forest, but are all rural areas still, as you might think of the discussion here, against this park? Were they all opposed to the park in the first place? I allow myself to claim that it wasn't. I find, in the highest sense, it's strange to quote uninterrupted rumors that are, in fact, long out - of - date, they're in some very different case, but it's presented here. But okay, that's just the discussion. I'd like to take a closer look at the organizational matters, since I feel that the most false information is there. It is strange to listen to a discussion about this and to claim that it is being taken over by rural society when it has been reviewed many times in this public assembly today, by myself and others, by the criticism that the rural communities had, when it came to their organizational duties. I hope that I can convince the U.S. Congress that the changes that have been made to that part of the matter are designed to face these criticisms of the rural community and to convince you all that the organizational authority of the rural society is not impaired by the bill. In fact, as shown in the case of some members of the council here tonight, the rural communities are completely dominated by this collective territory called the peoples. They are in the national administration, they are in the greater part of the district councils, and they are not bound by management and protection programmes created by the National Park in its strategy. Their power is not small when it comes to these matters, it is clear. It can also be asked, and some have done so tonight: Where will the park be controlled? We hear a general discussion saying that we should not increase central control and take all the power to Reykjavík. Those who talk like that haven't read the bill, that's perfectly clear. It's clear from the management section of the bill, II. section; that there is a distribution-controlled arrangement where the power is at home and, of course, it is, as we can see from the construction of the Lake Earth; that most of the jobs are out in the country. In my story, I mentioned that out of 34 regular employees in the fall of 2020, there are 30 at the National Park Work stations and four in the capital area. It has also been noted that there is no democratic government involved in this arrangement, there is some state effort. So far from being sure, there is probably no democratic government at any institution in Iceland, but this is not just a government agency that is involved in, but that also involves other stakeholders. It's a model we've tried for several years in a Lake Earth park, has given a good start and is something I think is very successful in building on. We can better control the situation, that has been true of us. Then you can ask yourself, " Why is such a great government being placed in the hands of rural governments? ' My answer to this is simply that I trust my rural society and other stakeholders well to handle policy cases when it comes to controlling this park as well as others. I'd like to take a little discussion here about the Seas of Blue National Park, for I've felt quite inclined to hold on to that institution in the discussion here tonight. Public review, as good as any. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason came in, including entered, making specific comments on the Waterland National Park business. Changes have been made. The bill also includes... some of the observed indications and criticism are being treated, and this is important. Many people say that the tracks scare and look to a Lake Earth park, but when I talk to the rural communities in the Lakesland park, nobody there said they wanted to go back. They see their advantage in having this park, both to protect nature and also to promote work structure. It has also been said of lack of more experience. I'm pointing out that the Þingvalle National Park is 90 years old, the Snæfellsjörður National Park is 20 years old, and the Lakejörjörður National Park is 12 years old, I think it's a well-established experience. Also, much has been discussed, and I did well in my prehistoric speech and will not repeat it. But there is probably no nature protection project in Iceland that has been presupposed as much money as this project. I remind you this project is the largest nature protection project in Iceland. This is a project that looks to the international standards adopted in Icelandic legislation, a project that creates opportunities for tourism, not necessarily in the highlands, but in the whole country, and a project that gives public work, which, of course, is based on, and therefore, is called by local societies everywhere. The political part of this is about nature protection, the protection of Icelandic countries but also at the same time for urban development, the positive structure of employment instruments, and the increase in public activity in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u136	Madam President. V.E.G. A minister spoke a lot about consultation, but at the same time he told us that some things would not be possible until the national administration and the agency could take two or three years. V.E.G. A minister also said that he had been listening to the viewpoint and was there. It wasn't that I heard what it was. The forwarding party members and the independence party in our discussion today. I didn't hear any better than that. A minister would be most concerned with accepting the viewpoint and criticism from the edge, especially from the former blows. Councilmen of the left movement ◯ green supply, for the highest. There was no objection to any comments given by a minister. The senators of the districts and the Independence Party. The highest. Ministers assure us that there will be no further activations within the park? I'm asking the highest. Ministers also because he spoke of the absence of shutting down the highlands: Won't the people's quest for the national park in any way interfere with what they are doing today? Finally, I ask the highest. Minister: has the highest. Minister of the government support this case because the Supreme Court. A minister spoke a lot about misinformation? What about them? The members of the government class, the forwarding party and the Independence Party, were here today? Is that all wrong? Has the highest. Environment Minister for support of the entire government in this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u137	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Hv. A senator first asks me if a minister has support in the government. This bill is a administrative bill, it went through the government to members of Congress and there into the council. As we all know, there were prime members of the government party, and they will be taken up on the Council Committee. Will people's quest for this territory be impaired? I'm pointing at the 18th floor. The bill that deals with stay, company, and traffic in a highland park, but in 1 mg. According to the public, it is a chance to travel through a highland park and stay there for legitimate purposes. There are, of course, rules on how this stay and journey is conducted, just as there are traffic regulations when driving around the roads that have been dropped all over the country. What's more natural than there are rules about such things as on the highways of the country? I don't quite understand the difference. Hv. A senator also asks if there will be more continuum transfunctioners. I'm pointing up 23rd degree. the bill on energy efficiency. It clearly reviews the interaction between energy consumption and national parks and specifically allows to attack intensification in areas affected by energy efficiency in the third degree and to make decisions about what is in the waiting area of the framework, particularly on certain factors, whether or not there is a compromised area. It is therefore difficult to answer whether or not there will be more activations. There must be a case that will address the task management framework and thereafter of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u138	President. I believe that anyone who listened to can interpret the end of an answer to the highest degree. Ministers such as he does not expect further energy efficiency, further production of green renewable energy, within the range of these national parks he intends to establish. But the highest. A minister did not answer the question of whether a quest would be to some extent superior to what is now. The minister pointed out that there were certain rules on how people would walk and stay, such as traffic regulations. That's already the case, Mr. President. I ask, what makes the bill even better? Ministers on how to travel the land and to stay beyond what is already under law? I also reiterate my question about government support. V.E.G. The minister said it was a matter of government, which is certainly true, but the minister has no doubt observed the discussion here and saw that, as I get close to a government case, not one of the members of the Assembly of the High Priests or the Independence Party was ready to state conclusively support for the government and the Supreme Court. Minister. So I reiterate the question: Ministers have general support for this case in the government? So I repeat at the end, Mr. President, will there be no change in the possibilities people have to travel through the country with the approval of this bill? [[The president calls.]] Has the highest. Ministers of Congress support this matter by members of the administration?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-08-33.u139	V.E.G. President. I don't know exactly how to answer these two questions, but I've already done. It's a board of directors' bill. It passed through the government to council members and has entered the council. I cannot say whether individual senators are able to support the situation as it is now or how it will be when it is finished during a conquistador treatment. I think I just have to come up and see. But it is clear that this case is in a government contract, and it is supported by the government. Hv. A senator speaks of the people's travels about this area, but 18 gr. In the bill, I take very good care of it, as I did earlier in my case, that the public is allowed a journey through a highland park and will stay there for legitimate purposes. This is 1.mg. The article and this is the guide that the park will operate on, just as other national parks have worked on similar guides. The experience from a Lakeland nation shows that it has been consulted in a management and protection programme, as stated in 6 mg. 18th g., that in the management and protection program at home in the district of the district of the district, a special report should be made to all roads allowing them to drive within the park. It is certainly allowed to limit traffic in individual URLs and roads for the particular time of the year, etc. It also states that driving motor vehicles outside a highland park is forbidden, something that is probably doing to protect nature. However, we do not have this bill to close the highlands by traffic. It would be extremely strange to intend to do so when one of the main objectives of national parks is to increase access to nature to enjoy it, to learn about it, and so forth. [[The president calls.]] But I really appreciate the discussion.
