ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u1	Mr. President. The General is an old and respectable agency and a very important link to the workers of democracy in Iceland. Democracy requires that we be able to have a good conversation here at the U.S.A. and that we can also give one another support, that the council should provide the European Commission with the necessary support. Therefore, it is very important that a conversation at the Council can be conducted in a natural way. Now, the General Assembly, such as all other institutions, businesses, and homes in the country, has not been part of the virus that now threatens our community. In many ways, it has been very effective here at the General Assembly, where all of us have helped. I'm pointing this out right here, and now it's because democracy can be pretty fragile. We see many examples around the world, and we observe them, some with a duck in our throat, right now. What I want to draw out is that we need to move on. We need to make sure that we can keep the council active, democracy active, and we must prepare for the long term coping with these problems. All of us need to be clear about the fact that we are going to make sure that the council is active here in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u2	A respectable president. By 2020, it has certainly shown that the system called can react suddenly to unexpected circumstances. Still, we here tend to focus on what is yet to be done and to forget all that is done well already. A review may be helpful. Here I would like to focus on the social activities that have been followed by Covid under the most powerful leadership. Ministers of Social Affairs, but with the active presence of the Generals, where members of Congress have applied themselves in the implementation. Governments have already used more than 22 billion in resources to maintain recruitment and ensure survival. There the partial improvement rate is increased, but more than 35,000 employees in 6,600 employers have received partial compensations since the law was accepted but it can be assumed that 79% of them are still in the employment contract with the employer. Remuneration has been paid under contours and temporary summer jobs for students have been made by state and rural groups. Children who were disabled and chronically ill could apply for a monotherapy due to increased care. There were 3,86 million people in various social activities, such as Helpphone 1717, working with Mothers, bilingual organisations, telecommunications, and information on Covid made available in various languages. The demand for that service proved to be great. There were countless measures to protect homes, employment markets, leisure jobs, and immigrants that I cannot cover, but it is clear that when everyone turns on one thing, there are ways to get us through Covid. Many of these projects and measures need to be developed during the Covid process and some are here to be, especially those with sensitive groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u3	V.E.G. President. Rather, one of the things we can think about in situations we are dealing with is a people's health. A wide variety of people are called for solutions in all areas of society, and they focus on physical, social, and mental health. It's a very important one, and, of course, when you think about the consequences it may have been to stop all the sports and leisure activities of young people, as we have. We should try to get that job started as soon as possible. At the same time, I thank governments and students, especially for their secular work. What a priceless and vital contribution to human health! I want to use this opportunity, a respectable president, to call attention to mental - health messages about a collection of signatures that is about to put mental health first. At the same time, I would like to address the measures aimed at fostering mental health. This message is important, especially in those times, reminding us of the importance of prevention. Of course, I don't have time here, in these two minutes, to review all new actions, but all are good. I would like to mention the total scope and performance of a mental - health service in Iceland, which is absolutely timely to cover the lawsuit and ensure the coordination of different causes, followed by the transparent spending and interaction with other aspects of society. Increased parental support and education, as well as increased emphasis on this part of the school system and the Institute of Mental Health, are important factors in following policies and measures in this area.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u4	Mr. President. I'm obsessed. Persistent concern about careful legalization. During the final days of our assembly, the Allied Council received a large case that involved share loans and was to give the council two weeks to issue the big case. It did not end in spring, but it was postponed to the butt so - called but gave three more, four more days to take care of the case. On the Web site of the core, the Borghildur Sölvey Sturludóttir's daughter wrote a very impressive article by a professional who bears the title ▪ Out of love for professionalism. I would like to read from this article to point out the seriousness of the matter, and especially when ministers allow themselves to be offered up by the General of Congress. I fear that what we are in this winter, electiontime, will be no exception. By permission of the President, Borghildur says: ▪ That is why, when reading over and realizing highlights is more than tears, I allow myself to say the absolute ambition of the government, which comes to the development vision and shopping for the citizens of this country. The author allows himself to say that the bill that was approved to work against and to be the head of professionalism. She says that in the projecting of the bill, there had been consultations at the House and Managing Institutes, the Organizations of Industrial and Buildingmakers, but not the Organizers, not even the architects, not the landscape plantations. No, the article did not look for professional opinion. It's a harsh writing from a professional in the profession, from an architect. [[The president calls.]] I would also like to direct those interested in this matter to read the information about Iceland's Arciets Association in the Regulation which is now under advisement. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u5	A respectable president. As we now observe the results and follow up of the presidents of the West in the cradle of democracy, we see how reacting to the current president is a simple, clear, democratic rule. The way that President deals with democracy is a warning to us. Although we're in a relatively small country, we think we're a nation of natural but in part a small country, every voice matters, and it matters how we react, what message we send. I've watched how other governments, to make up British, have been responding to the position that is now and certainly we Iceland can agree that we can work with each individual who will be president. But that does not mean that we do not insist on being respected by democracies. We now see, to a greater extent, individuals coming to power on the basis of political authority. In my opinion, this film has appeared to us Icelanders in the last four years under Trumps's command, and we see this ŠTrumparaHow many places, including Europe. We watch Poland and Hungary, how they and their governments associate with natural democratic regulations and human rights, especially. Then it is urgent and important that the Icelandic government, whatever it may be, stand by the democracy that we stand by human rights at any time. Therefore, it is important to me that the messages sent to Iceland, whether by the U.S. Presidential election or by the government in the countries I mentioned earlier, are guided by the fact that democracy and human rights must be respected, and Iceland will provide support and support to that end. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u6	A respectable president. The title of the ethics of life and death is the title of Vilhjálmur Árnason, a book about the need to make difficult decisions in the health system. We are now living in the fiercest epidemics in Iceland's republics, civil rights and human rights, freedom of travel and employment, and are still heavily reduced. At an open social hearing yesterday, it was observed in the case of Guðnason Thorole Þórólfur that the Covid vaccine is not necessarily on the horizon, and so may it not be as effective as expectations. At the same time, we face the fact that there is a number of potential waves. A virus - free society is at best a illusion, and the economic blow with related unemployment has already created serious conditions. Similarly, it is clear that those who have been mentioned among the hands are the ones who come to the extreme and who suffer the greatest consequences of action. We are, in fact, more faced with complex and huge questions related to ethics and death. What a joy it is that we have responded in a rapid and reliable way to receive more discussions about Covid here in the Hall of Health Ministers, but I would also like to see a similar program with Prime Ministers! Now the temperature increases, and the problems and issues about Covid become more complex. We need to consider the matter even more overall. We need to be able to have an open, sincere, clear conversation about the side effects of the operation in Icelandic society. We need to ask foolish questions without fear of violent reactions and without fear of silence. It is good and important to be optimistic and hopeful, but we too need to be realistic. It is the responsibility of the government and the role of them to produce long - term motion pictures. [[The president calls.]] Uncertainty is a tremendous burden to many. Work must be done to eliminate as much uncertainty and fear as possible about the future for the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u7	President. The world has many problems. One of them is extreme, and apparently more extreme. But that is not true. Man has often been led to extremes. World War II should still be a memorial of extreme vandalism. Today's passions are exactly the same as they always were, driven by fear of the unknown, by things that are different; other skin colors, other sexual tendencies, other beliefs, or other opinions. The consequences of extreme extremes are discrimination, excommunication, harassment, and war, the consequences of decisions taken because of fear of the stranger, the decisions taken because we do not want to understand. Fear and lack of understanding are understandable - human, natural. What we do to overcome fear, however, can be incomprehensible, inhuman, unnatural. There are people who may feed our fears and lie to us at the exact moment, so that we literally believe anything. The instruments of lying have also become extremely sophisticated. They can be used to paint reality doubts and show that white and gold are blue and black. Today'ssteries are lies too many people believe. Even if the lie is proved black in white, it's just a false story. The video sure shows gold on the blue, everybody watching it. Three days ago, e.g. A video showing the president the candidate says, "Hello, Minnesota." On a sign behind him, however, it was: Florida. Some had falsified the video with a simple goal in mind, to see doubt, to turn away, to lie. It is not for anyone to resolve all the lies that the world puts before us every day. That is what the media are and now more than ever before, we need powerful, independent media instead of politicians who label news as false news for convenient purposes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u8	A respectable president. The health - care environment is regularly being discussed at the council. The minority of the council did not get tired of pointing out better. Certainly, much is better handled by the health system that is now experiencing the most difficult times. However, there are 18 members of Congress who feel that there are not enough work to do in the medical system, those who have discussed health problems and care, poor facilities, too much stress, too little money, too little money, too little money, and that everything is really there. Yet, we are talking about one of the best health systems in the world. Today, these members of Congress will make a resolution that includes increased pressures on the health system and, above all, in the Land Hospital. In other words, there is a Synod resolution proposal for access to women to travel to Iceland in an abortion. The theme proposal applies primarily to the inhabitants of Poland and Malta, a total of 38.2 million. It was published in the United States on the United States Media Act, where this Senate resolution was discussed that between 100,000 and 200,000,000 illegal abortions occur each year in Poland. A respectable president. I wondered, though only a fraction of these abortions should be moved to the Land Hospital, what the situation will be like in the depressed hospital and in the women's ward. I also wondered about the cost, a respectable president: Who should be paid for flying and staying? Who pays for the interview, service, and follow-up operations? Who pays for the follow-up, the Psychological Support and other items available here? A respectable president. I ask if it is the role of the health system in Iceland to deal with the political health problems of tens of millions of countries when we wrestle with a waiting list in the health system that we all dream of destroying. A respectable president. Is that not a recommendation for the medical profession?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u9	Mr. President. The quality of the week or the days of decision have just ended. The senators had the opportunity to visit their rural communities and rural governments electronically, as a means to understand. In our community, the population has indeed taken part of the heavy burden of the crown virus epidemic. They stand in close - ups, thus having their finger on their pulse, and there is no question about the fact that local teachers are involved, and schools have been important in this epidemic. You see, communities are not just administrative units, they're not companies, they're communities. It has also been shown how much more than one member of a team is important. How important it is that they can work together or unite according to events where appropriate! It would be enough to mention a recent union in the East. These unitys and the increased strokes of larger units will also be important. But we need to keep an eye on the local community and keep an eye on how it gets out of the epidemic. The discussion of local income and rural society needs to be continued, and it needs to be open and efficacious. We need to consider our rural communities to be partners with the government, as partners, in order to continue a strong and solid welfare community in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u10	Mr. President. I'm not used to being put on. Today, health systems throughout the world are being used for the purpose of the Korean epidemic, especially in Iceland. A study has been conducted, e.g. in the United Kingdom, victims of the Korean virus other than those infected with Covid, i.e. people who are on a waiting list for action, but because of pressures in medical institutions, who do not survive the creature on a waiting list, they are indirectly the victim of the crown virus. In Iceland, health - care systems are expanded to the limit, and miracles are being performed every day. It tells us what the situation is, that it will take a long time to work down the blackmail that humans have had to push aside because of the situation. Then I'm talking about a combined number of measures, because, for example, there are no chosen actions at the Land Hospital. As an example of elective measures, there are cardiac compressions, joint replacement procedures, etc. A recent health minister's response to the information presented here was made to set up replacement sites for Aranesp, which are due to be started in January 2022. So for the next year and the remainder of it, there will be an even longer waiting period for replacement operations. All hands on deck now, Mr. President. It is necessary to give advice to those who are right to lose weight in the medical system. This morning I read an interview with a woman who runs a company that has been offered to take over 130 patients from the Land Hospital and thereby solve some efflux problems. She won't get an answer. And now, in our discussion with the health - care minister on these matters, it must be determined whether the health - care minister will abandon his dislike of private service and accept the help that it is right to fix a waiting list.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u11	Mr. President. I do not intend to enter a discussion that will take place here later today, such as the last speaker, but I would like to consider points presented here on health issues and on preventative measures and the other aspects of meditation that were presented at the outset. paritaprevir Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir's daughter. I think it's very important for us to be aware that we're taking on very severe preventative measures where people's spaces are severely limited and much higher than we've ever met in the republic history, such as the whale. paritaprevir Sara, Elísa's Þórðardóttir, mentioned. Of course, we admit that epidemics and serious influenza epidemics call for action on the part of the government. It is normal to be allowed to take certain measures for that reason, but this does not mean that it is permitted to do anything. There is a challenge, and we need to review it in a critical way. Before I do what I say, I'm just going to step back to the debate. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son here just a few minutes ago, with regard to his community's position. That is correct, and there is reason to agree with it. A senator said, of course, that state and rural society must work together to solve the problem. It is important that the actions of these two administrative ladders are coordinated when it is time to react to Covid and we are to work together to resolve matters. But we also need to keep in mind the question of how a change of practices and income is between these two ladders, for this must be so that power and work also meets financial responsibility. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u12	A respectable president. There's a good judiciary behind it. There, we were able to visit rural and medical officials, and in my district, we were assigned to the National College of Innunciation. All of this was accomplished electronically in Zoom, and it is amazing how quickly people adjust to the change and take advantage of the opportunity to meet despite not being allowed to meet. It was also a pleasure to have confirmation that much infrastructure is going on in my own district as well as in others. This is equally true of road construction, portworks, the strengthening of electricity transport systems, and fiber - opticization, with electricity use being used as an example in these substances. Of course, people were concerned about such activities as rural society in the light of Covid and the lower donations from an equation fund in those rural communities who rely heavily on those incomes to care for basic services for their inhabitants. I agree that there will be a government that will have to bring money so that legal services can be performed to the population. By agreement between the state and the Union of Iceland, which was made during the days, money will be given priority to the rural society that has been cut off in income contractions because of the economic crisis we now face. Nurses were very busy, and it is urgent to get the results of this work group, their operators, and different work forms, especially the small ones with problems. It was a pleasure to hear the interest of many in my district of the Middleland National Park and to see that it would create an opportunity and a future job structure. We are on the right track, though we are dealing with a difficult problem in the light of Covid, and there are a number of major conflicts, such as the opening of animal funerals, which are a source of great joy in these times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u13	A respectable president. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has come to war with disability. He feels that all the elevations in recent years have slipped into his pocket because money for social security has doubled over a period of time. The violence of this government in which it is displayed in many forms, such as. Because a dollar across the street is only 65 cents in return. How much money has the state saved by having it this way? Yes, more than 50 billion have been saved because of the lack of a cent in return, as are all the groups now promised. Sadly, the next month will be difficult for disability. Sadly, violence continues. Those who are able to eat, and those who cannot do so need to tighten their jams even more. Why were wages for disability not followed? Why can't a cripple get his face corrected? Why did members of Congress get so much money overnight about 700,000 dollars? increase, but only microchip 60,000 over a certain period? Why? Is that fair? How in the hell are you going to justify it, and I want to get the answer, that desperate and pensioners are supposed to live at 70,000,480,000 bucks. less per month than the lowest wage? The answer, you members of the government, is why. What is it about those who believe that not only poor people are to live in poverty but are not to be hungry for drugs, food, or other necessities?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u14	A respectable president. We have just finished election days, and there we members of the Parliament received some helpful information. I'm here to take into account some of the health issues involved. I'm going to start by commending both the institutions of my district and the staff and the rest of the country that have endured a very difficult time. Indeed, the importance of the public health system has been proved to be very strong during the terms of this government, both health care and hospitals, about tens of hundreds of billions. Now, under the construction of the new area in Akureyri, there are also two new clinics that have long since become available. The Minister of Health has also decided to secure the Eastern Health Organization permanent funds to ensure continued service by specialist physicians in the eastern part of the agreement with the Akureyri Hospital and the Hospital. This was an experimental project that began last year with the services of orthopaedic surgeons and urologists and they took care of 850 people who would otherwise have had to attend this service either to Reykjavík or Akureyri. This is an extremely important service, except for the loss of all the jobs we know we have lived in the country and have had to attend medical services in Reykjavík or Akureyri. The European Center for Development, as well as the National Institute for Health and Health, is in cooperation with Dutch experts on the positive health and control of people in the United States. A principle, professionalism, and evolution shows how much and how powerful the work is in the east. The government has also established a mental - health team throughout the country at clinics. We have had special funds for the health - care provider's receptions and for the growing number of health professionals. This is one of the important things for the future. We've opened up a new emergency in Akureyri, which will be added to existing resources. But, folks, this mission never ends, i.e. To make a good society better, so we'll go left with it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u15	President. All I want to do is come on the disease prevention and the conditions we live in this country right now because of the Covid epidemic that afflicts us, and the fact that the Center for Disease Control has stressed the need to protect the Land Hospital, have to deal with this and tighten the risk of disease because the Landsta can't handle more stress than it's already been under today. Of course, it is a concern if our main hospital is experiencing no more stress today. However, there is also concern that one of the reasons why the hospital itself was unable to prevent transmission within it is highly established. On Landakoti. Now the hospital is going to investigate how this happened. I have to say, Mr. President, I think it's a little special that the hospital itself is going to investigate what went wrong so that one of the main infections in Iceland, which made it possible for the disease prevention to come up at the hospital. I feel that this needs to be taken outside the hospital business, outside the house, and that someone else is looking at this. Then I come to another point, Mr. President, and he's the one at the moment. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isafun proposed to be appointed over the hospital. It is necessary to do so. It is highly unnatural that such a large company, a big organization, is really out of control, without control, like normal institutions or institutions that we would like to have some kind of administration. This needs to work on the first. Finally, I encourage all who might hear this brief talk here to read the articles that have been written recently by the leaders of an independent nursing home for the financial well being of an independent nursing home on behalf of that government. They're starving these institutions. They're preventing them from fulfilling normal requirements.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u16	Mr. President. I want to talk to the President about a speech. Ásmundur Ásmurmur Friðriksson here, which was about my Senate case, a Senate resolution on the availability of persons who travel to Iceland to break their pregnancy. I object that the senator has not been instructed that in the Senate, there is a part entitled to have a place to speak with a member of Congress. In case of a moment. A senator would like to talk to me about my matter of Congress and make comments on a matter that is supported by 18 members of this hall should now be used in the past to speak with a member of Congress. The fact that he uses the past of the council to make false statements in this case I consider myself reprehensible, Mr. President. I think the counsel needs to be guided. A member of Parliament, apparently not knowing enough to argue with a contemporaneous case, that is, to reverse the facts.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u17	The president has to agree that under these circumstances it would have been appropriate for him to do so. The senator would have contacted the senator to whom he claimed to have a word with, if that is the case. In the past, the president has earlier pointed out that this is appropriate, if they intend to act specifically on another senator's affairs, that he is then warned and may be on the mayonnaise after. All of these rules have a problem. Senators to know, and it's hard for a president to guide afterwards. That's just the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u18	A respectable president. I have to start by saying thank you for the quick and good reaction of the President to the indication of why. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir. I agree with a president. I don't think giving counsel is a good thing. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, who has sat here since 2013. Maybe he needs a re-education, maybe not. No, I think this was done consciously, by means of a recommendation, because unlike what was presented in the matter of the senator here at the council, it's not about his love for the health department. This is about his opposition to the right of women to break up. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] This attitude is documented in his committee party where he opposed the prime health minister, who documented that his position is the same as that of the Polish government. Whether it appears in Poland or in the council members of the Southnesa, it is our stand in this hall. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u19	Mr. President. I think I'm compelled to come up here in this very part of town to say something. paritaprevir Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Björn's daughter and is sorry that this particular senator is repeatedly misleading the discussion and making a point in this matter. I can refer to what was said here at an open meeting. Yesterday's welfare committee, where an informed senator came into contact with this issue, spoke of an illegal 150,000 women being brought in. Hv. A senator allows himself to speak in this way by the Synod Committee. You're amazed at how he makes false remarks. You can't say that this is a misunderstanding. Senator. He's trying to mislead the discussion, just because he was opposed to the highest bill. Minister for a pregnancy break approved here by a majority of the generals during the last council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u20	Now, the President has to allow himself to point out that the 17th case for this meeting is the matter of Congress to be quoted here, i.e. about the bioavailability of persons travelling to Iceland to a pregnancy break, a mass-off proposal has been moved by the river. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Berry's daughter and others. The president believes that the discussion on this matter will be better when it is scheduled, not under the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u21	A respectable president. I come up here to compliment the highest. President for immediate action. It is shocking to see members of the Parliament, especially with this pathetic sad image of opinion about women's rights to use the missing jobs of the Senate to directly attack women's rights, attack members of Congress who are promoting important issues that exactly agree that Iceland wants to be in the first place when it comes to protecting and supporting women's rights around the world. Here I mentioned the sad image to the west of the sea. We Icelanders must be careful to keep our voice high and clear when it comes to democracy and human rights. That's exactly what we're looking at today, that the Independence Party, with Ásmundur Friðriksson, as an opponent of the women's rights to pregnancy break, is expanding the course in Icelandic society. All right. [[The president calls.]] But then they will also be there, and they will be answered with these opinions. [[The president calls.]] We'll discuss it later today, but I'd like to give the highest compliments. A president for responding in a hurry, and I hope he communicates these messages at once. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u22	Mr. President. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir and commending the president for taking this action immediately because I share the opinions of other members of the council here. This I don't think was a mistake, I think that was the point. A senator is well aware of the rules of communication in this council hall. Rather, he has this in order to frame his views. In this regard, I wanted to encourage him to examine what is involved in the law in Poland that he is recommending. I think all women who have experienced pregnancy must face that decision, e.g. Because of the serious illness of a child, you know what it means to feel pain. I'm not angry, I'm sorry when I hear people talking to you about these opinions. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u23	Mr. President. I would like to thank the President for agreeing with the comments I made. I believe that there could also have been a sign. Ásmundur Just during the discussion that will take place later in the council on this subject, Friðriksson can present the language he has been giving. I'd like to agree too with what. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir, chairman of the welfare committee, says that there are also special regulations on the conduct of members of the Committee to conduct themselves in front of guests and politeness with other members of the Committee, and this may be a reason for taking it up as well. A senator. But I look forward to the discussion here on this matter, a conquistador proposal, about the availability of foreign citizens according to the health care that is broken. [[The president calls.]] In case of a moment. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson wants to come out here and discuss his point of view, he'll be doing it on them. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u24	The arrangements for this discussion are agreed on, which is a verbal report by the health care secretary. After the beginning of the minister, all classes have a right to counter or enter the discussion twice, i.e. For two minutes, then one minute and the highest. Minister at the same time to comment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u25	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the opportunity to discuss these matters at the council. This has happened before and then that the initiative of the Prime Minister on issues related to the activities of Covid-19 has been discussed specifically here in the conference hall. As noted in the President's case, this discussion is under way now, and according to my information, it is expected to be done again at specific intervals in the weeks ahead. All I want to do is celebrate the perfunctory and the organization. Since the Covid-19 pandemic took Iceland at the end of February, we have been fighting the virus with several breaks for nearly nine months. It still does not provide an end to this problem, since the epidemic is still rapidly growing on a global scale and the continent of Europe has not been part of that increase. In Iceland, some 5,000 people have become infected, with about 5,000 of them. Half the current wave began in mid - September. It is estimated that about 2% of the population were infected with the virus. So it is obvious that there are a lot of people in the country that have been infected by the virus to protect them from the community against Covid-19. It is believed that the first development of herd resistance is the presence of the presence of 40-60% of the country's population with antibodies against the virus, so it is virtually impossible for us to reach it in the future except by vaccine, which is the other way. Vaccine production is a factor that we Icelanders have if any impact on, but we have secured access to vaccines in cooperation with other countries, as noted in non-preserved queries yesterday. So it will reach this country as quickly as it is ready. But I think it's wise that we prepare for a good time before a vaccine becomes the living we all hope for. As long as we wait for it, there is little else in the situation but to use disease prevention measures to prevent the spread of the virus, protect risk groups as well as prevent the spread of the health system, with consequences that none of us would want to accept. So far it has been successful, and a survey conducted by a surgeon in the medical institutions and nursing homes of 2,◯3 days. November the assessment was that the situation was manageable, but it was extremely fragile and a small amount of shock. By the time a designer was examined, the Lands Hospital had moved from red to orange or yellow. One nursing home was in red, two institutions in green, and seven in yellow, but in terms of quality and safety, there was no institution in red and eight in yellow and three on green. It's on a regular schedule. During the time of the epidemic, I have cooperated with a pathologist, surgeons, and other experts. I've seen no reason but to follow the advice of a psychiatrist in all things, and the government has held that approach in agreement. This does not mean, however, that counsel is followed without necessary criticism and discussion. While we have taken into account various viewpoints other than those given to disease, such issues have always been resolved with strong consultations and often with many phone calls a day. As I said at the outset, the epidemic has fallen late, and we can't say we're seeing its end yet. While there have been great support in the efforts of the authorities to curb the spread of the virus, more and more people are being treated with fatigue and voices that raise doubts about the need for action. It is not unusual in a democracies community, and it is a trend that we see all over the countries around us. In such a situation, there is an open discussion of the most important as well as the availability of repeated action, and I share the vision that foreknowence should be as high as the virus allows us to be, so that the population of the country understands why decisions are made. There we can certainly do even better than we do now, though we have spent all our time putting great emphasis on information and discussion. It is now being done within the government and through the CDC to increase this two-way policy to as long as we can, which helps us to control this balance; to control the epidemic and to guard at the same time the average limit and that it does not cause more damage to Icelandic society than it is intended to prevent. I want to thank the president for the discussion and look forward to any response and comments. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u26	Mr. President. It's no bigger than the pandemic. Thus, the discussion today is not only beneficial but essential. The biggest challenges we face are three: to protect the nation's health; to protect the health of the nation; to protect the health system, but we are looking at the deepest crisis for 100 years; and the third assignment involves people's well - being, less time and longer. All of these are major projects and measures to protect these interests must be taken hand in hand. Why did we ask for this discussion? In such a situation, it is not just the legal right of the council to have a conversation with the Minister in this chamber, on grounds and on the stage, but on the duty of the council. It is the duty of the council to perform a surveillance role toward the government. Does one of our attitudes toward certain disease prevention measures involve our feeling that they are too harsh or too lenient? That's not what this conversation is about. It's about information and the basis for decisions. Opinions vary, including anywhere else, because not all of us are in the role of being public security at this stage of the matter, we're all becoming pathologists, further into that study. The discussion has been a big deal about the interaction between a disinfectant and a health - care minister on the other hand. On the other hand, legal and political matters are more and more than the barbaric laws, more than the source and authority limits there. Another fundamental question points to the interaction of the council and the minister, and that is the reason for the restoration to this wish. The premise that we can fulfill our responsibility for monitoring, and the conversation is information. I'm not going to stand here and say that no conversation and no discussion happened, but we've been having some serious discussions about the economic actions. The use of effective alcohol - control measures must follow powerful economic operations. They must be equal to the weight and introduction of a game at the same time. The long wait for economic activities, as it has been, makes fatigue, even makes hopelessness, and even makes a less understanding of the treatment process. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I'm going to direct it to the government to take a closer look at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u27	A respectable president. I still want to thank you for taking the initiative that this discussion will take place here. I've been meeting with the welfare committee at least twice if not three times during the period since the outbreak took place in this country and is always ready to attend the General Assembly on these matters. I agree with all the comments and sharpens that are presented in the matter. A senator, about the importance of not forgetting the important and remarkable role of the Hall of Congress that we too are a seminar. We are not only the site of legislation and policy, but also the stage for a discussion without thinking about the discussion that led to some particular conclusion about one particular particular, separate matter of Congress. We are to use the senator more as a seminar because it is a powerful democracy to do so. So again and again, I want to express my joy with this initiative. It is true that the Council's maintenance and monitoring role is equally appropriate to request and discuss a matter. And it is also a good point to show in my introduction that there is more fatigue during the discussion, and the public places more and more question marks on action. This is normal, and we should welcome it. But we are to be based on our strong democracies, which is about our not being afraid to take the discussion and discuss matters, but at the same time we agree on the conclusion that we are going to make plans together. I would also like to mention, too, because it is the part where the minister is not in any difficulty, the time pressure that is always in making decisions, and Páll Hreinsson discussed it in his report. It is a friendly or viewpoint that I would also like to discuss with the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u28	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. Of course, it is all understood that in situations like this, especially the response and action of a disinfectant, in which there is constant response and action being counted for days and, at most, weeks, there must be flexibility for a minister to be able to perform his work. This does not change how beneficial and essential it is for us to have this conversation at the council, although it will follow, on the basis of the scenarios, on the scenarios, on the circumstances when it comes up to the health - care minister is not entirely in the recommendation of a psychiatrist, etc. In addition to the fact that there's a lot of information in the whole of uncertainty and that it's what we're trying to achieve with this, that we get the grounds on the surface, and we get the conversation into the Senate room, but maybe it's also that a little more prerogative for the job life, business, homes, parents with kids in elementary schools, Mom and Dad in nursing homes, etc., that it's a transparency and a prerogative and upbuilding conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u29	A respectable president. I wholeheartedly agree that these are the most important views, i.e. that the defense is as great as possible. We know, for example. that the current measures remain unchanged until November 17th, i.e. provided we achieve the success we are pursuing. Then, too, we need to be ready to open up the discussion as soon as possible how and in what order, etc. would be possible. I've always spoken before that we should do it as fast as we can. I'd like to mention one point in this discussion about the transparency because there's one factor I think we can do even more. We've always talked about the importance of arrangements based on information, and we can talk about how powerful we have to spread the virus in Iceland. We'll fire every single person. However, it is to consider the need to have information on the transmission of infectious agents and the extent to which the spread of the infection is most involved in the discussion with the public and the media.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u30	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion and celebrate what happened at the highest level. Minister that it would be expected that this will be done on a regular basis below. In my opinion, I have had a lot of trouble with the need for the General in a way that is needed, part of the discussion on the control of the disease. The situation today is that more than 1.2 million people have died with the Covid virus worldwide until today, which is similar to the number of people who die every year in global traffic accidents, so that the severity of the situation is clear. Surgeons place communities in many places, which will most likely be compared to those in times of war. On the other hand, I would like to criticize how little the General Assembly has been discussing the viewpoints behind the decisions they have made and, in fact, that action and, to the extent that decisions have been made, have been extended to the so - called trigeykis, without me wanting anything to limit the fine work they have done, is their role in making suggestions and evaluating actions on the basis of local defences alone. You see, that's the point. Consider, for example, the matter of taking into account others. The economic views. I've been on it before here in the pont, that it's necessary to watch more than just the Covid statistics. Economic and civil rights perspectives and how they have been turned aside are of enormous importance, and this discussion must be taken into the hall. I'd like to ask the highest question on this occasion. Minister: has been specifically evaluated on the effects of delayed action and increased impacts of various types, e.g. Because of the mental problems that result from the isolation and change the way we live our life - style, what is the cost of health care? Second, who considers the minister that the next few years will be affected by the effects on the Icelandic health system if the economic system and thereby the income of the state's funds contributes to lower donations for health care? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u31	A respectable president. Of course, the Central Party has not requested a discussion on the control of the nine months that Covid-19 has been fighting in Iceland. But I'm glad we can communicate now, and I want to direct a question to the point. The senator's decision on whether or not a different approach would be made to the people we've done here, i.e. to build on the best possible knowledge about disease control and knowledge about the nature of this epidemic. I have not heard such suggestions. I haven't heard such ideas, suggesting that we don't follow the advice of a psychiatrist, not to follow our best people's advice, but it's quite certain that the responsibility for the treatment of health care programs, according to the Icelandic Board, is in charge of health care. That is not the case, and there is no one who wants to change it. But, hey. A senator specifically asks of the effect of delayed action. Of course, it is now time for us to postpone action on the health - care team's wish for the surgeon's wishes. The surgeon proposes this postponement for two weeks, and it is clear to everyone that waiting and waiting are affected, and we hope we can pull this stop back after that time. Hv. A senator specifically asks about the effect of the actions on the people's mental health, whether something is being done about it. We're investigating the national mental health of the people with a special scientific project called Lend Nation in the time of Covid-19, where researchers of Iceland's University work together with surgeon generals and psychiatrists to try to get as much knowledge of the impact of the pandemic as well as the treatment of the environment and the quality of life of the country. Let's hope we get to see the results of that study the first time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u32	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer, though, is that I find the tone special and that perhaps I do not highlight a particularly great willingness to have a conversation here in a pita. But let's just leave it between parts of it for now. I'd like to follow the answers to the highest. Minister after two ways. First, have you considered making a contract with private servants in various areas to reduce stress from the hospital? Second, if current measures cause the economic economy to become permanently less and weaker, then a minister did not come up with a prior answer to her opinions on the health system in the long term. Who thinks it's the highest. Ministers that the health system will be affected if, at the time of government funds, the level of income is weaker than that of today? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u33	A respectable president. In fact, it is the evaluation of governments around the world that the fundamental human rights for life and health always come first. We realize that such priorities affect a number of activities, influence jobs, and influence the economy. However, our evaluation, as well, is that if we don't take first place in disease prevention and life and health, we'll have even more serious health problems, both in life and in health, as well as in our economic and professional lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u34	A respectable president. Me, like the rest of them. Councilmen, are happy that this is the subject of applied and high - quality treatment procedures. A minister to have this conversation with the council at the beginning or at the end of each week as long as there are surgical procedures in force here. However, I would like to cut only the top words. A minister she opposed to the second. Councilmen, with references to the conference as a seminar, are happy that the council is being discussed. In this regard, I would like to point out that the council is far more than a seminar in the sense of supreme. The minister seems to suggest that this is just a matter for discussion. The Congress plays a role, the Parliament is the lawgiver of the country, the highest agency of Iceland's administration, and has both a legal and a surveillance role with the European Commission. In view of this, it is important that procedures for disease should be considered not only in the General but also in the matter of decision making. This is in force for Regulation No. 1051/2020 signed on October 30 to November 17. I think that in this Regulation, the measures so dramatic and extensive that of human privacy and personal rights that things like this have not been understood, not just in the republic history, but even in the whole Iceland legend. In view of this, it has also been observed that there are some forms of information error and that the public health measures are being issued that may even take place in this Regulation. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister if it does not consider it unfortunate that there has been some information issue in these topics and whether it is suitable or even normal that it is being carried out by the rules of the public defence beyond what is stated in this Regulation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u35	A respectable president. I'm sorry if it happened. When I was discussing the role of the Generals, a senator missed it. I put it especially in my words, as it were. A senator seems to have missed out, that it was important to maintain the universal seminary in addition to the legislature role and its vital role in monitoring. I realize that there is. A senator is willing to conduct the role of the Generals, and then I want him to be right after me in that discussion. Hv. A senator makes up his mind regarding the current actions, that they are hard and hard to see. I agree with that view, as it lies in itself during the operations as such. But it is also possible, according to Páll's Hreinsson, that as long as we could be equal and moderate, we rest on a much clearer improvement in the decisions we are making. That's what we've done in this operation all the streets and will continue to do. I remind you that democracy in the countries around us, such as Britain now, is setting out for weeks of complete closure. That's a way we haven't gone. Hv. A senator specifically asks that when the public defenses go further in its decisions or recommendations. It has happened several times that such decisions are made by government committees of specific areas. Such decisions rest on law and authority. Of course, contact between parties is called on the importance of such measures, but it does not depend on the treatment laws and is not part of my decisions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u36	A respectable president. The role of the General Assembly as a seminar only leads to legalization, so you don't have to be especially concerned about it. There are, however, reasons why the public defence has direct recommendations or rules that include. has focused on the sports relationship and the school management society now, which seem to upset some of the rules. I hate to hear it if it's the best. Health Ministers do not consider it to be at their level what social health laws are directed to individuals in the country and if there are any tools on which rules are really valid here. A health - care minister believes that this Regulation fulfills all regulations and points to Páll's report of the Hreinsson son's being discussed here. This report is explicit on the fact that government and health - care minister sources and a carer are severely limited to the time and emergency of the day. I'd like to ask the secretary if she believes that the Regulation as it is today, the Regulation that simply forbids all sports of children and adults, whether inside or outside the door, regardless of occasion or health - whether such rules govern the government of Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u37	A respectable president. Of course, I believe the Regulation I myself have signed is a law and a government ship for Iceland. It would be better now, a respectable president. I want less of it. A member of the council says that there is a public defense situation in Iceland that has lasted for several months now. I'd like to leave that question with a what? A senator who makes it so and has discussed it both in the press, in the articles, and elsewhere, and now in the last chamber, that we are going here to do what we want to do with the crown virus, and I would like to pray. A senator about to go out of his way to the conference hall some day, just in the seminary, sharing his viewpoints with us on matters of how to handle the situation. What is that? A senator proposes? It's never been shown. Lay down. A senator so we don't follow the advice of a psychiatrist on the issues of Covid-19? [[The president calls.]] And then what is it? A senator contributes in this regard? You see, talking against something is not enough. A man is responsible here in this council hall as a matter of course. Senator. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u38	President. The virus is highly political, and we take sides to determine whether we should cope with it by the methods of the disease and whether we should use the public authority, whether the community should use the resources it has to maintain the epidemic in progress, or whether we believe the right of the infected is indiscriminate and the right to infect others above the right to pass through healthy and uninfected. There are also those who believe that the government is in their nature opposed to its citizens, that it is against them, and that it should be avoided. But I don't come up to discuss it on those philosophical lines - I started thinking about it while I was listening to the exchange of words - but I just want to talk about the school language. Preservation measures appeared last Friday, where schools were made to change greatly their way of working, and undeniably this was a very short notice. They have Monday as a day of work, so on Tuesday they have to have everything ready. It was a little short notice, so I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if she's done this in consultation with the Supreme Court. A minister of education then able to alert the schools better. I just want to ask, "When did I introduce the highest? " Secretary of the court. Education minister of these measures?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry and especially the philosophical speculations, since this is a natural condition that calls for philosophical speculation because unprecedented times are just such a time of speculation. This is how it has been since the outbreak took place that we actually have two regulations. They're both signed by the health minister. On one hand, there is a general directive on the premium measures where we will implement mass and distance restrictions and what there may be many here and how many there are. However, there is a second principle based on the same law called a school management principle. The reason for this separation is the nature of the operation, so it has always been two regulations. In any case, they have been submitted concomitantly. This time it wasn't possible because the discussion had not occurred with the school authorities, so we left to introduce the general measures in the government on Friday. There a minister of education is informed and had actually been informed earlier about what was in the pipeline. At that government meeting, we agreed to start cooperation between the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and the Union members and those who really need to work under the Regulation. We believed that the weekend would be sufficient to agree, and it was, of course, the primary responsibility of the Ministry of Education to do so. This is unusual from the board of directors because the discussion is on the side, although it is my job to sign under the regulations. It took longer than I'd wanted, and I didn't think it was going to be done sooner. [[The president calls.]] It was certainly the goal of finishing it earlier on Sunday. [[The president calls.]] But this led to a conclusion that was completely in agreement with the Ministry of Education for each step. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u40	President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. I would then like to raise the question that when such advanced classes are not satisfied with the way they are working, I feel that they have concluded and expressed their dissatisfaction and concern. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it could not have been more familiar with the teachers, with the teachers' groups, and whether they will not be tried in the future to arrange for a consultation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u41	A respectable president. As I explained in my first response, they were communication and consultation in the hands of the Ministry of Education and maybe were the main members of the community that the government that has taken care of high school, this is very important, but more importantly with the cooperation both head of the school and teacher at all levels, so that there were meetings and I know that the Ministry of Education has worked very hard to cooperate with and agree with the schoolmasters and with the school students. I realize completely that this amount of school restrictions is so much, and then, for example, I am. talking about a masked family of 11 years of age, never going to be different from putting question marks on it. What I would like to see and hope is that these narrow measures are as short as any, and even more, that we can begin to help, especially in sports for children. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u42	A respectable president. I thank you for this discussion, and I would like to say that for a whole time, this battle against the modern - day crown epidemic has gone well with the nation. Governments have directed the route of action by the health authorities and have agreed with the proposals of an prescriber in accordance with local regulations. However, questions arise as to whether the current authority on the environment is sufficient, as well as the police and other authorities'rights to enforce it, as mentioned in the discussion. We know that the bill of that material is coming from a minister and that I would like to ask if it's the highest. A minister believes that we have been in a gray area in terms of improvement of the existing disease prevention procedures and the key factors in this regard. I'd also like to ask if there is an active cooperation and conversation between health authorities in this country in the battle against the virus and whether we take it as a small population and diffuser in a way that's different from the number of countries and countries. Finally, I would like to ask, " Is something more successful with us in view of our being a small nation in a rural land? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u43	A respectable president. Because of what? A senator asks about the procedure first, i.e. The purpose of the law, when we review a section of the disease - control laws, is that we want to clarify our sources more clearly, even though we believe, and agree with Páll the Hreinsson of Purge on what is presented in his evaluation, that the process of recovery is completely undisputed. These existing laws and regulations have proved to be effective. But it is right to sharpen and explain legislation because there are a lot in the legislation at the time that did not anticipate a epidemic of the magnitude we are dealing with today. This experience that has developed in 2020 is important, but it is also our problem with other infectious diseases, such as the nitrovirus and measles, and so on, so there is something that can be sharpened in the law. It may also be better to make clear that the average and equality and commitment to the EEA agreements, etc. While there is, of course, the possibility that such laws would improve. I have already appointed a group of workmen who have the presence of the Department of Health and the Attorney General, the Department of Justice, the Surgeons, the Hospital, the Health Care Center in the capital area, and the State Police Department to evaluate this position. Hv. A senator asks for cooperation with the North countries. Yes, there's a lot of cooperation in all areas, in any level, you can say, both a pathologist with his colleagues in the North countries and a minister with his coal, etc. The poor, by reason of the night. A senator asks if it is for our benefit, of course, a short channel. [[The president calls.]] This means that society moves faster than large communities, so it has advantages. But it also matters that we are an informed society that is accustomed to taking the discussion open.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u44	President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I think we have a great deal of support for this crown virus, this pandemic, in our country. The majority of the nation trusts that such matters have been carried out and that health authorities have made good sense in this area, through a path - control physician, surgeon general, and public security, to guide, and to trust that it is taking care of what can be done to any person's perspective. I believe that this is how we need to continue to work and trust that the government will continue to do so in good consultation with professionals in this sector. [[The president calls.]] I urge ministers to continue to do good work, as it has shown us so far, in the most difficult epidemic we face.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u45	A respectable president. I just want to thank you. A senator's encouragement. It is certainly true that you do not always know in politics any assignment that leads to fun. I don't think any of us could have thought of what position we were in right now. But I feel very important in this grand task that we will endure, for it may be the qualities that matter most, but more so that we have never done this before. We cannot apply the manual on how we are going to cope with a major pandemic. We're preparing a wide range of pre-emptive systems. We have our health and health - care systems, and there are many things we can feel that we can build on which we can trust. But most important, we have been able to trust in the Icelandic public, who has shown amazing flexibility and endurance in this difficult work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u46	President. Enlightenment is a basis for effective prevention but also for good rights protection at the time of the virus. The weight gain is here, and it's gonna get worse. This is known in epidemiology. Thus, according to a minister's introduction in his opening speech, the review of the application procedures will be increased. But criticism is good and will be beneficial when it is well - informed, based on information, and answered with understanding. The three - eyed eye has declared the need for such discussions, which is based on the solidarity needed to protect the environment, and they mention it. in the October 15 issue of the newspaper, three weeks ago. There they say, with President's permission: However, noncritical discussions are not required in question of solidarity. On the contrary, it is important that differences of viewpoints be reflected in the issue of civil rights. The ban on criticism is merely designed to divide the precious unity we need in these unique and difficult times. It is our firm view that calmness and solidarity are the best preventive measures. The scales include life, people's health, livelihood, and other rights, so it is important that the discussion be beneficial. It's such a short time we have, but I just want to say that people are understandably tired, and then they get angry, and they want them to be shown understanding. I spoke to a psychologist who said: " Active listening, listening to people, and showing them that you're listening. ' They are to be understood and answered with understanding. That's what we have to do here at the council with the Minister - I assume a minister has become tired too - the authorities and all the people of the country, including those who ask questions that some feel are confused and crazy. I can tell you that I follow all the radio instructions, but I don't quite know about the masks, I know that if they're used correctly, they'll be effective, but not if you have them under your nose, as the president of the President sometimes does. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It needs to be made clear. Does a minister not agree? Can't we agree on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question and speculation. I believe we agree completely. We are through this epidemic of decision - making according to knowledge already available. It's very difficult to consider decisions made two months ago, I'm not talking about five or six months ago, based on the knowledge we now have. Hence, we sometimes see the emphasis on decisions, and that is how we make decisions, for example. About my masked duty. This is one of the highlights that have changed as knowledge has developed. It is true, however, that if a mask is not properly used, it does not do much good at all. If used correctly, it reduces the amount of virus that is passed between you. I think we all need to learn that, and we need to be careful not to mess with the mask with our hands because that's when we lose sight of our goal. I agree completely with what. A senator who says that criticism is important. I think it is very important that we employ active listening, perhaps rooted in parenting, is about understanding what the child means, although it is not exactly the correct word for an adult person's vocabulary, that we try to put ourselves in tracks, etc. However, criticism also means that criticism has arrived. That doesn't mean you can hold on to anything without expecting that you're back with counterargument. Once you accept the responsibility of discussing criticism and opinion, you also need to be responsible for your case and to put up with the opposite viewpoint. These are speculations that I think we need to act. [[The president calls.]] But I agree completely with the three eyes in their article when they say, "Counsel and solidarity, in the end, the best preventative shield. "
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u48	President. I trust the government will do its best according to different circumstances and under very limited information and the need to make many decisions very quickly in a very uncertain situation. It's only inevitable that the mistakes are made. There is nothing else in this situation. Therefore, this active listening is important. We need to listen to all criticisms. I agree that she needs to be met, but those of us who may have the patience and understanding of the importance of approaching people who are angry and pissed off, etc. by understanding and by trying to find out what is behind it. That's what a psychiatrist told me. When people are angry, they hurt. There are many wounds and on all kinds of grounds. Lectures have said: "Why can't we work, but then others can? Why can it be beaten, but not beaten by others? I haven't made it clear yet. Is there even a possibility that hair salons could do their job if they had full protective equipment? I don't know. That's one view. All these views must be expressed. In order to do my duty as a senator with the surveillance role, I need to see the measuring table that the CDC has, and I sincerely wish to cooperate with the health minister and the CDC to get that clearly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then I can explain it to others and do my job.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u49	A respectable president. Because of what lays. A senator says at the end, but he's president of the rock. Of course, it is important that the committee and the council be able to carry out their role in the Commission and the Commission, to understand the reasons for the decision-making. A health - care doctor has provided a document, which lists the main criteria to be considered when making decisions. I'd like to, and I know that what. A senator would like these to be just some standards on which you could eat some program, and then you could get the arrangements out of the other side. But that's not quite the way it is. There may be 50 people who are all in one place, or you may have this decision, or 50 infections that you can't link and live all over, and you'll have a different decision. So this is always the interaction between these factors and the viewpoints that are underlying, and that's why the pathologist has been so reduced - because I agree. A senator in that it was by far the best and the most clear that we have a high level that we could understand only once, but a psychiatrist has taught me that it's more complicated than that once. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I'll make sure. The senator receives these criteria.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u50	A respectable president. First, I'd like to celebrate the fact that we've arranged a solid form for the discussion on the treatment measures and that it will be on a regular program here. While it is clear that decisions for disease prevention are never taken lightly, it is important that we examine the measures at any given time. Let us never forget our primary goal, to protect our most vulnerable groups, and to ensure effective health systems. In itself, the measures at all times are simple; avoiding group formation, avoiding excessive contact, in particular non-related persons, and avoiding the risk of cross-infection with common contact areas. These are the main elements of the operation and have been all along. The details of this have been so applied to the situation of the epidemic, and this process can be wrapped in us and powered by bickering. The preventive measures inevitably affect children. Schools are disturbed, children are not allowed to go to sports, leisure activities, meeting friends, etc. Many important things fall apart. Children have different backlands to cope with these conditions. Hence, the effect on their well - being can be positive and negative, positive if circumstances permit, children spending more time with their families under good circumstances, and even more children in the home. However, studies followed by the United States Convention last spring indicate that children and young people in a delicate position have been affected by the ban and the school performance. Hence, every time, disease prevention measures need to be weighed against the influence of the public health of these children. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is it up to health care to seek all ways to keep the routine of children and school going? □ What are some of the ways in which we can show our appreciation for Jehovah's provisions?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u51	A respectable president. That is correct. A senator, that there are many viewpoints that need to be weighed together. This may be the most clear when we are talking on the other hand about life and health and economic influences. But when we start to talk about social effects, human health, mental health, and everyday lives, we are more involved in the overlap of individual views than we are at each other's end. We have agreed on this in the government, and I have deeply agreeed with the Supreme Court. Minister of education to ensure that working together in school is very important. This is true of all schools, and nothing younger than older, for all ages have special standing. High school kids at risk of elimination are still at greater risk in these situations, etc. However, it is so that when the Regulation is published by me as a health minister, I cannot extend beyond the absence of a disease problem. So we always need to be careful when we take these views together, i.e. and other viewpoints that depend on the importance of kids keeping their routine and routine in their daily lives, that we cannot extend beyond the criteria of the disease. Otherwise, I would really be building a Regulation on opinions other than those authorized by the law. I hope that this will explain the basic tone of what's under there and then go back to the second. A senator asked about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u52	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister's response. How important it is to hear this solidarity of keeping the routine of children alive! It is thrilling to watch out for school students throughout the country for practical reasons so that children can attend school, study, and other associates. But what I'm wondering, and I'm guided by the minister's answers: Can we inform the public and school people, especially the children themselves, about what science knows and knows about young people and children and the virus? Do we really know more about this than we communicate and then agree with the principles of the disease? What measures are really most important in the prevention of children and adults? If we can teach our children to watch their own disease preventions, we can go quite far. As we teach children in other relationships, it is far easier to control our own behavior than to be concerned about the behavior of others.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u53	A respectable president. You're right. You're right. I think we've all experienced what's been in charge of these disease prevention measures that we need to realize that there are more ways to share information than through the Federal Intelligence conference. The rating of the good schedule varies according to age, etc. and we experience the challenge of reaching younger ones. However, reaching school and making sure that information and understanding of the target are also a challenge. But at the same time, as I did in the past, we also need to be careful that there is information about it. Why are these measures taken in this age group not for this age group, etc.? We now see that the virus has been increasing in younger age groups, that is, in general, statistics, but we also see that there are not many infections among younger children. Really, it is the knowledge we can do better to impart it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u54	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a report on Covid and the situation in those cases. My main concern is that after my little masking technique, which I try to limit as much as I can, but always use the mask in public, I have discovered that after not many minutes with it, I have a headache and I feel uncomfortable. Then I started thinking about hospital staff with masks and costumes for hours. What conditions are there? What kind of pressures do they face, spiritually, and physically? Has it been checked? Is it under surveillance? All I'm saying is that I admire the people who have lasted all this time, now it's been nine months, on the front lines, and I'm asking a minister: " Do these people get a benefit for their work or for their stress? I think people are doing amazing jobs here. I also ask in that context, because we know that out there are nurses who haven't returned, you don't know how many, there are dozens or hundreds, whether they're being activated, trying to get more because we need a crew, we need backup. I ask myself, " How long can this present group stand? ' We don't know if the current wave is going on. We have no idea. Nor does it seem that we were not fully prepared for it because our graduation problem is still there, even though we should have known better and been ready. And I ask a minister, what does she see in these people's affairs?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u55	A respectable president. That there is a problem. A senator with a few questions in a short time. I'm gonna do my best to answer them. I'm pretty sure it's a lot more exotic for us who are not used to wearing masks in everyday life. People who work in medical institutions may be accustomed to wearing masks in their jobs and often for hours, regardless of Covid. I agree with what. A senator in admire of the staff in front of us, and we agreed here from the General Assembly a billion earlier this year on special pay supplies for health care professionals in our healthcare system. I agree with what. A senator of the tremendous importance of a large - scale patrol, and we have, fortunately, received very much response from health professionals and health - care professionals who are involved in other work in the community but who have enrolled in scoring forces. This is not to say that all enrolled in a scoring squad are ready to work at any greatest risk or with Covid-infected persons, but those people are willing to work elsewhere, and it is extremely important, especially when there are tens of them, if not hundreds of health care professionals who are infected at any particular time. I agree with you, too. A senator said that we would have to anticipate all of this and be better prepared. But what I am most concerned with is that we should have started building a new land hospital on the Ring Road years ago and been finished because we would not create these good people a proper working conditions or a working environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u56	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I couldn't help but agree that now we had a new hospital ready. What I've also thought about and I'm worried about is that now we're in incredible shielding, we're springing, and we're wearing masks and everything. One day, it was said that of different kinds, children were fighting. I am concerned: How does this affect the immune system of adults? What is the future in this regard? How does allergies, all sorts of things, affect them? Because we know that our system needs certain germs to build defenses and other factors. So we're going into a new world that we don't know. Are there tests on the consequences of this? How should we react to them?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u57	A respectable president. As mentioned in my case earlier, we are developing knowledge progressively as the epidemic rises. We're gonna go for a second. A senator has had a word exchange here since the first outbreak, about its nature and spread, etc. One factor that is growing in concern and weight is the indirect health consequences that include: It includes conditions such as tiredness, musculoskeletal pain, breathing difficulties, etc. And, yes, we're putting up increased funding and support on increasing the number of rehabists, e.g. to meet this group in particular. But at the same time, I am aware that our best experts are investigating these effects, these side effects, and Iceland will have considerable opportunity to provide for these products, such as other health - care providers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u58	Mr. President. This is an interesting discussion, and perhaps especially interesting to see here the language presented by the Independence Party representative and conversation or the current at the highest level. Minister of health before, but I'll put it aside a little. In the situation in which we live, it is extremely important, and many have come up and told us, to have such a regular report to the council from the highest level. Healthcare Minister for the SECs. It is good to have regular continuation of the remainder of this fall council and perhaps in the spring council as well. School issues were introduced earlier, and I'd like to apply them a little more closely and ask the highest degree. Minister on high school issues. Schools in basic schools have been admirable, we have maintained the almost constantness that has been of immense importance to both children and parents and others. However, more than 23,000 high school students are on the fifth week of telecommunication, and they continue to be on their long - term studies until the end of the year and despite the much impairment of traditional teaching throughout the autumn, little has been heard in that group, in contrast with other interest groups such as bartenders and gymnasium owners. Unfortunately, statistics and indications indicate that the initial deportation of high school students by Covid, which is very serious, may have long - term social effects. In addition, uncertainty in a pandemic school affects the mental well - being of a young child. So I ask the highest. Health Minister if she agrees with me on high school issues must be in top priority when detoxification begins. V.E.G. A minister of education was concerned with me here at the Congress Hall yesterday and claimed that it would ensure that the group will be the priority when the removal of the disease operations begins. It's the highest. A health minister agrees with this, and will she put it into practice that high school students become the priority group they need to be?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u59	A respectable president. I'll take into account what you're worried about. A senator on the subject of high school students. I know it's the highest. The minister of education has stressed these matters, and he has done so in dealing with me as health minister, especially in schools that are confined to narrow homes because school schools are not actually unable to fulfill the preventive measures. It is a concern, and it may be necessary to consider other options in housing to ensure the training of young ones and especially at those times when these measures are most effective. I think we agree absolutely, in principle, because this group is very sensitive to all the setbacks and eliminations that can be very important at this age and can change everything about the future plans and future prospects of a child so that, from social viewpoints, I agree completely, but I want to rejuvenate what I said before. paritaprevir Sævarsdóttir Saevard's study, my sources always turn around to take measures based on the cohesive principles so that further, as health ministers, I can't really reach me, but if it's found that the measures aren't at the expense of the disease, we're totally compatible, I and the Supreme Court. Minister of education, in doing what we can in securing secondary education.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u60	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A health minister is eager to hear the answer and to hear this will in both counsellers on behalf of this group, who can truly be in a more sensitive position. This discussion has discussed information, and I would like to step in on it in later years. It may come on the political aspects of the source of information because I want to make an issue of the importance that the government will explain to the public when it decides to compromise a psychiatrist's recommendations about why it is being done. The government will be in my opinion and, in my opinion, to other people I've heard of informing the public why the decision-making of the political table is only at the sides of the D.A.'s recommendation and why these decisions are made. We have seen that when this conflicts only with or has not been the harmony that in most respects may have been lacking in explaining why these decisions have been made. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And it would be nice to hear from the highest. Healthcare Minister on that information.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u61	A respectable president. I just wanted to figure it out with high school. I don't know if it's been shown in the Education Minister case, but it's also in regular consultation with the high school society, and it's done a lot of work. Then let's note why. The senator says we could explain better decisions, so I agree. We just need to take it to heart if there is not a good explanation for the situation and the evidence behind it. At times, it is a legal argument, about equality, or something like that. It's unfortunate if it can't get through because it causes agitation in the community if it feels that there's a discrepancy in decisions so that we've done the best we can and will continue to.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u62	A respectable president. Although this discussion, which has now ended, has been given the highest report. A health minister for disease prevention was quite brilliant and was able to give in. Congress officials have an opportunity to have a word - and - answer call. A health minister on a number of matters, and this was wide and wide, I think everyone must be confronted with this arrangement, i.e. a discussion in this seminar, like the highest. The health minister referred to the importance of the presentation and I agree with it, is not suitable for information on the subject based on the role of the Generals as a legislature and the Commission to the Commission. Where the highest. A health minister mentioned this or directed that question to the point. More than once, members of the Parliament have no information about their decision in the matter and what action they would like to take, therefore, to answer that members of the Parliament have no information about these measures, have no evidence on the matter to answer these questions. [[The president calls.]] That is why I stress it, a respectable president, and highlight it at the highest level. The secretary of the council, that these matters, in this condition, will be brought to the council in the form of the Parliament so that the council can discuss the matter by conniving treatment, with relevant data and information. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u63	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u64	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank you for this discussion, but accept the views that came along. paritaprevir Andersen on the limitations of this form and on the grounds that the matter in question would be taken into the form of a matter that would then be fully discussed at the council. I felt that the tone in the reply of a minister in front of me did not suggest that there was a particularly great interest in the discussion of these matters, and I would like to apologize for the mementos that were involved in the middle party not calling for a discussion on these matters. All I can say for myself is that I entered this matter both in discussions about the Prime Minister's policy debate and in a special discussion about the Covid response. Of course, the minister of the seminar is not in charge of what form a body of councils or members of Congress will file a case at the council. [[The president calls.]] This may be in special discussions, perhaps in unsubstantiated queries or members of the council depending on the incident.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u65	Before proceeding any further, the president wants to state this until the conclusion of the meeting with the president is not usually discussed with the end of the program. Besides, the president has to confess to himself because of the Supreme Court. During the discussion, the secretary of health left his final words. So I want to pray to the highest. Ministers to attend a public talk and deliver their final words in the discussion that has been under discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u66	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Healthcare Minister, Svaní Svavarsdóttir, for the quick response to this discussion, for a waiting list for children with mental health problems. 1,193 children all over the country wait for an diagnosis or treatment of mental or psychological problems. The majority is the delay list at the Development and Behavioral Station where 584 children are waiting for analysis. 107 children are waiting for the diagnosis and treatment of the Children and Youth Department of the Lands Hospital, BUGL, and nine children are on the waiting list for hospitalisation in the department. We're having children with mental disorders wait, not just for months, but even for years. As is the case today, children who need emergency services need a reference from their health care providers, and that is often a long wait. You even need to talk to an answering machine that sometimes gives misleading possibilities. Instead of receiving immediate help, people from Pontíus Pilate are sent to Heródes. Mental disorders are a major cause of disability, so it should not be treated immediately in children and adolescents. Failure to do so will cost the future dearly for the children, the family, and society. And what are the consequences for those children? Their schooling is upset and their future is upset, the future of the family is upset. This can be avoided by making sure that children are not on a waiting list. There is virtually no support or resources available for the group of children who grow up with psychiatric parents and who also need support for the group of children growing up in parents with addiction and alcohol problems. Pressure on children and their families is often so serious that the damage will be irreparable, both mentally and physically and financially. By not excommunicating the lists of young people, the state is producing disability on an assembly line now and in the near future. It is then revealed that mental and physical abuse against children have increased, making good and urgent health care vital to children. Loneliness is also the cause of mental illness in children as well as in victims and bacteria. This tells us that every dollar set up in this group of subjects is returned not just ten times but a hundred times as financially to the State and to society. In writing to me, the health minister's reply in September says a word, with the permission of a president: The largest part of BUGL's hospitalisation is emergency treatment. Such incorporations take place on the same day, with an estimated 80 to 90% of all hospitalisations for BUGL for such incarceration. Go on says: ▪ When emergency services are under intense pressure, the waiting period for those on a general waiting list will be extended. The waiting period after such admissions may vary from one week to several months. However, it should be noted that all children who are on the waiting list for admission are in the active service of the BUGL. The average waiting time of the BUGL walk is now about seven and a half months. The question is, What does it mean for a child to have an active ministry with a BUGL? Is it, e.g. one phone call a month, as disgruntled parents have noted that their child has received and can be accepted as a limited service? Is a child who gets only one phone call a month then registered to be in the full - time service with BUGL? How many of these holes are in the system, topv? A health minister? How long do you have to wait for the system to work for everyone? Isn't it time we broke up our sleeves and then pull our pants off and start handling these matters? It's mean as hell, in the absolute sense. Is that normal, topv? Health Minister, that 500 children are waiting for a more specific professional diagnosis of the Development and Behavioral Station? It is revealed in your answer to my inquiry that screening had shown strong evidence of a child's mental health problem, such as ADHD, anxiety, autism, behavior and communication problems, and so it is ridiculous not to respond immediately to the list problem. The majority of these children have problems in more than one field. The age of the children is 6 to 18 years, and there are about 200 of them waiting especially for diagnosis of inhibitory symptoms. However, complete analysis of the problem is important in evaluating the potential therapeutic options. These include initiation of therapy for ADHD and related disorders for which complete diagnosis is required. As mentioned earlier, children who have to live with people who have alcohol and drug problems and other mental illnesses need help. It seems that a pot is badly broken, so we should be back in shape right away. Children should never go to a waiting list for treatment of mental illness or other illnesses, never. Does a minister agree that 100 children are waiting for the diagnosis and treatment of the League of Children and Youth? How do Ministers intend to take action to stop these models? Does a minister believe that the level of pay is normal enough to make it difficult for human activities to be treated with BUGL? Finally: What action will a minister take to ensure that children with a mental disorder will not be placed on a waiting list? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u67	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for requesting this particular discussion about waiting list for children with mental health problems. Hv. A senator asks whether it is reasonable for a Minister to expect more than 500 children to wait for a specific cross-cutting analysis of the Development and Behavioral Station. So there are differences in mental - health problems and the different health groups that treat children with the problems they face. Health care includes children with emotional, mental, and behavioural problems, and the Development and behavioral centre is operating within the health care of the capital area. There children wait for a more specific cross-cutting analysis to show strong evidence of mental health problems, such as ADHD, anxiety, and other emotional problems, autism, behavior and communication problems, as well as learning problems. The majority of these children have problems in more than one area, and I'm sorry that many children are waiting for a more specific, cross-cutting analysis of the Development and behavioral stations. However, it should be noted that waiting numbers alone do not provide an overall picture of the waiting time of the individual children in which cases are arranged between different waiting lists, e.g. depending on the nature and weight of children's cases and age. Thus, some matters begin immediately and wait for less, while others wait longer. For treatment it is important to maintain that most of the children who are on a waiting list for a specific diagnosis have already entered some service strategy, e.g. a school, health care, or an independent professional, thus getting help because of their problems while they are on a waiting list. But certainly it would be most desirable to wait for an analysis to be shortened and the Ministry is reviewing ways to do so, particularly for a shorter waiting period for ADHD diagnosis and treatment. Hv. Senator wants to know if a minister is acceptable to over 100 children waiting for the diagnosis and treatment of the BUGL Children's Youth Department. Most of the hospitalisations in BUGL are in emergency custody. Such incorporations take place on the same day, with an estimated 80 to 90% of all hospitalisations for such incarceration. When emergency services are under intense pressure, the waiting period for those on a general waiting list will be extended. The waiting time for such admissions may range from week to month, and in this regard all children on the waiting list for admission are in the active walk-in of the BUGL. It should also be noted that BUGL has been involved for 12 years in the consultations of the health care providers, where social services, child - welfare, and school services are also represented to ensure complete approach. The plot team connects the services of children in a collective environment to provide children with support, resources, and treatment that they need to thrive and be successful. Today, there are 19 active collaborators of this kind, most of them in the capital area as well as a few in the country. Hv. A senator asks if a minister intends to take action to stop these courting lists. Yes, the Ministry of Health has cooperated with the ADHD, Land Hospital and Health at the capital area have been looking at new and more efficient arrangements, particularly on the diagnosis and treatment of ADHD. If that arrangement is successful, then there is no basis for checking whether it can be used for reference in other analyses and treatments for other childhood mental disorders. Hv. Finally, a senator asks if a minister thinks it is a normal situation to find the fact that the amount of pay available is difficult for humans to find. A senator put it that way. Then the pay cases for Land Hospitals should not be held at my table. This, however, is a major concern if it is true. Finally, in my first introduction to this discussion, I have given high priority to mental health, especially the mental health of children and young people. I know why. A senator knows very well the emphasis on my work, for I have stressed raising the number of psychiatrists in the medical profession and especially in the service of children, and that, of course, we are talking about this so - called first phase of service. We have also been improving the support and structure of mental health in all parts of the earth, and we have emphasized that mental health matters are in the foregrounds and that they are not leftovers when physical health has been tested. I want to make sure of what. The senator that I fully agree with him in the matter of setting priorities for mental health and setting priorities for children. That's what this government's been wanting to do, and I want to thank you for that. In this regard, a member of the body keeps giving repeated attention.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u68	V.E.G. President. I would like to thank the advocate of this important discussion and I would like to stop at his last question about which action the Minister intends to take. To me, it is urgent to reevaluate the assessment of mental - health services with children and adolescents. Finally, in 2016, it was a government accountant who attacked such an assessment. It is now a considerable amount of time that should give us a special picture of what improvements have been made. We know that there has been a first - grade mental - health service, as we call it, but there is, unfortunately, not enough, where the first stage leads to a second and a third degree, and if there are no options there, there is no work. Today, the discussion is primarily secondary and third - degree service, waiting for it. When children and young ones are on the waiting list for that service, or rather, on a waiting list, many things have gone on and their children have already tried what they can do. The waiting for help is harmful. We need to change these emphasis into the view that help is not needed. I'd like to agree with the words of Héðinn the son of Unnsteinsson, in the news media these days, that the diagnosis in this country is very high, and the first reaction is usually medication. This needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u69	Mr. President. Thank you so much for the discussion that's incredibly important. I want to quote an article in the new issue of Mental Help. It says that for years our approach as a community, when it comes to mental health, was more characteristic of it and that when our mental well - being is affected by symptoms, as if it were a cold. In this article, it says that just as in the case of a cold, the person with psychiatric problems is likely to receive symptomatic treatment, medicinal products, and a very limited total treatment usually involved in changing behaviour and thinking; therefore, it is more difficult to work with and base the treatment on. Mr. President. The largest increase in the number of users of depression and anxiety medication is in high school girls. The increase is more than 90% in the past ten years. This is one of the points mentioned in Ólafur B. Einarsson, Project Director of the National Aeronautics, in a new medical journal. Among the OECD nations, the use of antidepressants has been in Iceland for a number of years. There was a significantly higher graduation of ADHD medicinal products to schoolchildren in this country than in control countries. From this point on, it should be made clear that medication is necessary, but it can be harmful and prevent other forms of assistance. Overwhelming of antipsychotics, like other medicines, whether of anxiety and antidepressants or of stimulants, can prevent us as a community, a government, from dealing with the underlying causes of the community's problems. I think we need a thorough opinion of what causes this, and I want to call for community responsibility, that we are together to examine the root causes and prevent this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u70	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for this discussion and the Minister for good answers earlier. This is a need and a good discussion, as we have seen, because the well - being of children is a community project. Our future depends on healthy individuals growing up. Psychiatric disorders occur frequently during childhood or adolescence, so it is important to act as soon as possible and also scan for a problem in high risk groups. I would like to mention that in recent years, this group has added emphasis on this group and is needed to increase our support here at the council when contributions are reduced and their own income, which have undergone much of their projects, are also reduced. One such group cherishs children who live with addictions. Children who have parents with alcohol and/or drug problems are more likely to develop alcohol and drug abuse problems than other children. It is important to ensure that high - risk children have access to specialized services to prevent their future consumption of alcohol and drugs. Children who have drug problems are also more likely to have mental problems. They experience more anxiety and sadness than children who are not in their situation. It is important to provide these children with specialized care to deal with the pressures of having parents who are ill from an addiction. For children who have parents, siblings, or close family members who have problems with alcohol and drug abuse, such expertise exists in the U.S.A. SEVEN psychologists have developed this resource and have enjoyed this service since 2008 by 1,300 children. The Ministry of Health and the General should support expert services that have proved their worth and were successfully successful in the treatment of mental illness among children and adolescents. Thank you for this great discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u71	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for your need for this discussion. Often, there was a need, but now it is necessary. Last night's TV news showed that the spiritual discomfort of children and adolescents is growing as a result of the intensified Covid actions. How important it is that we keep on the watch for this development! It is undisputed that the social element is essential to young people and is crucial for all sound development and under current circumstances in the community, in the face of decision - prevention measures, these factors are obviously narrow - cut. Symptoms of anxiety, obsessive thoughts, can lead to depression, which can be a very serious illness. We're supposed to be very serious about this. Many children are very exposed to these difficult times when family violence is increasing and a drug addict is increasing. Clearly, if this trend continues to increase, the current resources will lead to a longer waiting list. However, this long waiting list in the child-adolescents department may be reduced by increasing the development of the available service. What do I mean by that? What we need to see is a powerful support system in the schools as well as a powerful health care system, as well as the existing hospital resources. We need to work at reducing the pressures of the system's top level, and we do so with strong prevention and treatment options in the first and second lines. We need to see these items built in Iceland's welfare religion and thus shorten the waiting list. We are also increasingly able to see a new approach, as it is the person's situation rather than his or her conduct. That's a positive trend. It has been said, with the permission of the president: 'Nothing me without me,' or nothing of me without my approach, and that's the development that we all need to help to promote. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u72	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank you for this discussion, which is very important for us to take to the chamber. A short-term waiting list on BUGL needs to be resolved whether it is due to Covid or other causes. If funding is a problem, it needs to be added. However, I doubt that this is the only problem, and I doubt that it would be wise to add money without even considering whether other ways are more likely to give children who are currently on the waiting list the necessary service. How will large - scale mental - health care also be affected after the time of the health care program? I also wondered, with this waiting list, if it could be that any of the children are waiting through more than one of the systems that care for children, they can, for example. Stay on a waiting list in the clinic, through school services, and social services. Moreover, we must not forget that many children enjoy fine service while waiting. Of course, all children should be assured that during the time of prayer, they will receive a fine ministry. If the problem is a lack of staff, I wondered if agencies can work together, institutions that provide special service; whether it is possible to create more compatible and, at the same time, to create a better working environment, which attracts experts. In the long run, I put high hopes in the work being done by the social and child - care minister for child reform, and I'm going to do better in my second speech on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u73	A respectable president. We know that the availability of mental - health services in children and young people is not good enough. We have too much waiting time for this important service, and it is unacceptable and simply violates the State's legal responsibilities for welfare services and makes it necessary to put children's well - being at risk. But the most important thing now is to shorten a waiting list for service, and then I am not just talking about the need for a state analysis but in general about the mental - health service as such. In September 1,193 children were found to be waiting for psychological diagnosis or treatment. The number one is the list at the Development and Behavior Center, where children are waiting for diagnosis, and at the National Center for Youth, which we call all equal BUGL. We know this, and it will never be said too often, that we need to put first an early intervention and preoperative action when it comes to giving people, especially children, the necessary service. We see that anxiety is growing, the analysis is increasing, and we see that girls, especially, in elementary schools are taking an increase in the amount of antidepressants. We need to contribute to the relief of our resources. As soon as I embrace this discussion, we also need to have some clear answers about what to promote. I want to see this happening that we can both shorten the waiting list, but we're also going to take steps that are related to the process of self-sustaining. Mental health cannot be separated from other health issues. The root of the problem in adults is often lacking support or understanding in childhood. The roots often lie there. [[The president calls.]] We're supposed to put the focus on it. That's where we're supposed to put it with the goal that everyone will be allowed to thrive in our society, of course on their terms. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's how we want it. The variety is all kinds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u74	Mr. President. This is always needed because we want the services of the mental hospital to be the best. But this is especially needed now because we know that prophesying is not necessary, that we are moving on to greater weight on our mental - health system over the next few years. The situation we are going through today will likely lead to problems among large groups of people, and we need to take action. What I would like to encourage a minister to do in this situation is to be a force beyond his own department, to keep the other stewards involved in implementing measures that especially involve young people and children so that people will be aware of the spiritual welfare of action. I'm here to mention one example: Department of Education's actions in behalf of students. The study's progress from what students called after has not been increased, and of course it produces financial worries that can then break into spiritual problems. Now, too, it would be a monotonous act to change the student's qualifications for career so that people do not have their bread to complete a study in a condition where it is just a very difficult to complete their education. A few days ago, the School Department of Social Services took such a step, reducing the requirement for a student's career by half so that students do not have to worry about losing their home if they have problems with school. Then we here at council also need to make sure that the budget of the committed psychological services that we agreed on to submit to health insurance here in spring. Then a health minister could discuss with a minister of education whether the raising of psychologists to health care would not have to get even better into elementary school to become a psychologist there or a social worker who will be able to get over the psychological problem that will undoubtedly go crazy. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u75	Mr. President. I'd like to agree with a verbal vendetta and the highest. Health Ministers on the importance of mental health care and the need for mental health disorders to be one of the key health providers in general. People who have good mental health experience spiritual well - being that enables them to use their abilities and thrive in life and activity. I feel that it is important to look at growing - up children, that there are applications to promote mental health just in order to provide an important service to children early in life so that just as most people do not have to use the kind of service that has been asked about a waiting list. That's why I think it's important for me to be working on the induction of mental and mental prevention in high school and high school, and that the Department of Health is calling for nominated drivers to hold on to that matter. Last night at a public security meeting, children and young people were being discussed. There I thought Anna Steinsdóttir, a hobby and sociologist, made a great point where she pointed out that parents need to be careful of their own mental well-being, and just as much as not being boring. This is exactly what counts for child development. To take care of our children, we need community development that supports parents. Therefore, it is important to extend the birth lagoon. Therefore, it is important that children's families are generally good. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, it is important that all parents have access to good health care, for in this way we contribute to the good conditions for children and to their mental well - being. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u76	V.E.G. President. This is an important discussion today. I would like to thank the health minister in particular for being here and participating in the discussion. What I wanted to say here in the second speech is that I think it is time for the administration of a mental health care agency, just from A to A, but the last assessment of children and young people, to be made by a state accountant, 2016. Today, we can see nine operations from Psychiatry, and the first point is to make a total effort on the scope and performance of mental health care in Iceland. I think we've reached the point where we've had enough talk here at the Senate Hall and we need to take action. I got an answer from the highest. Health Minister for Development and behavior centres today and it's clear that the problem is growing. 2016 was a waiting period of 3 to 7 months. Today, in 2020, the waiting period is 5 to 14 months, and it is clear that annual costs are rising. This shows that we are part of a ditch with this matter. I recommend that we step into this administrative process. I've had enough talk. We need to take action.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u77	-Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for starting a serious discussion on these matters. Resources for children with mental health problems in the region are even worse than in the capital area. Parents'experience is that they are very alone in managing their children's problems. Central treatment forms are now at high levels on the stage of child protection, called multisystem therapy. Access to this treatment has been entirely inadequate in the country. Of course, it is difficult for parents from the country to accompany their children when they have to use these central, specialized resources in the capital area. In fact, various studies suggest that this treatment regimen is also not suitable for families who are in the greatest difficulty and who are often ill, who require much assistance, and a major solution. At the same time as waiting lists have been described, there are no references to treating youths from child - welfare authorities, despite cases of self - injury, serious eating disorders, and drug abuse, and the lack of substance addiction. And the explanations don't hold water. This isn't an acceptable thing to do, Mr. President. President. It has been planned to establish one powerful and well-formed treatment home in the capital area. And I'm gonna ask them, "How are they doing?" In 2004 a report by a professional health - care expert, the Children's and Youths Compatibility in Behavioral Disorders and Mental Disorders, was conducted. That, in fact, is what the Bible ▪ Special attention should be given to the protection of children who are drug addicts, who have various disabled or serious mental disorders. Research has shown that these children will be more likely to develop psychiatric disorders and prevention in this area. That was 2004. And where are we now? We do not need witnesses, huge waiting lists, and pleas in many places to confirm that the system is not working. It's not a reliable display.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u78	A respectable president. System, system, system - Yeah, it's all about some system. It's always the system that's already in place, and I think the system is often the problem. I'd like to say, though, that the services we have in the mental health system in Iceland are excellent and excellent. It's just the problem to get there, the access to it, and that's one of the things we have to deal with. But the other problem is the demand for this service. There I believe that governments have been on the right track by switching, to a new medical policy, first, second, and third degree health care. The focus is on caring for first - century people. Not all of them need mental - health professionals, psychologists, and so forth. All you have to do is put your finger around an individual incident every time. Then we should be careful not to divide into classes, just to serve the child where he needs it. You should not need a reference or analysis or anything else to get a little help. That's how I think we can allow the good service we have now to do but don't let it happen so that you have a big and big problem, with the exception of a home physician who, after some time, continues to send you in an analysis, and then the analysis comes to get some other help, and the problem is huge, and the waitings and the services we have today are so not working. We are to increase the number of first - grade outcomes, thereby giving free rein to the number of people with a wide variety of solutions. At first, the problem should not be diseased, and we should have the access good, help people in the home, at school, and help them quickly. Then there will be the list of more specialized services that we need to have and that are good today, not so long.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u79	A respectable president. Suicide is the most common cause of death among young Icelandic men. This does not have to be the case. In 2018 a surgeon's office published a report on self - injury, suicidal thoughts, and suicide attempts among high school students. This review of developments took place since the year 2000. The results showed that among youths in high school, the strongest risk factors for suicide are suicide attempt by a friend or someone close to him, depression, anger, sexual abuse, and drug abuse. I know that the proposals of a staff group are at the top. The health minister, on the number of suicide measures, is in the process of the Ministry as well as the Department of Social Affairs, but it has to be completed in implementing these issues and filing payment of the psychological services, the good things that were approved here in the council recently. Last year 39 lives were lost here by suicide. It is often the case with young people who would have had good opportunities to deal with their problems if they had lived; 39 lives where there was a chance for them to work out forever. Mental health is one of the greatest health problems we face today. The sickness of the brain and the mind can be and can often be life - threatening. But as is true of many other diseases, prevention is often the most powerful way to tackle the subject. A few years ago, according to Dr. Ferdinand Jónsson's list of suicides during the year, there is no room, and most of all the tombs, but it grows up and spreads to the campers, friends, and fasts there. Prevention and early intervention are in this context of absolute passwords, and by promoting the first and second lines of the step system with high prophylaxis and treatment options, we remind the pressures at the top level of the service and automatically shortening the waiting list. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u80	A respectable president. Mental - health services with children will not be discussed without context in connection with other services that society offers to children and parents. As I came into my first speech, I have high hopes for the work that is now being carried out by the social and child - care minister for child reform. That work is even. I'm going to come up with some emphasis on that job. It highlights early service to children, high emphasis on cooperation, and integration. The fact that we are discussing this problem here, and now there is just another call for a complete vision in these matters, not that each system or service is working on its own. This work emphasizes that all services rendered by government and rural society and helps to promote and secure the welfare and welfare of a child, appear to children and families as a collective service. The educational and health systems that affect all children must cooperate well with such systems as social services, law enforcement, the services of disabled ones, and many others. I also have strong hopes that a clearer shift of children's services and the coordination of intermediate systems can ensure that children can be served appropriately where needed and when needed. This work also emphasizes the need for all children and parents to have access to a person who can help them to obtain a suitable service without barriers. Let us never forget, though, that all this work is about creating children with circumstances so that they can grow up and figure out how they can guide their lives in the most successful way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u81	Mr. President. A waiting list discussion is needed. As far as it goes, it is good but may be limited, for within that conversation, we need to discuss how we speak service and how we measure results. I hope they don't understand these words as if I'm protesting a conversation about a waiting list, it's really needed. But at the same time, I'd like to discuss our service and the results. It is as important as these two discussions need to be discussed at the same time. How many children are receiving assistance each year, and how long did they have to wait on average? The waiting lists tell a lot of stories. Long waiting lists are a serious problem, but there is no question that we are discussing the ministry, its quality, and its availability. And are we at the same time discussing whether it really matters what aspects of the health system it is that provide the ministry, whether the child is always on the basis of that decision? What, for example. with shrinks working outside the system? I would like a clear answer regarding these factors: How many children will receive psychological services with subsidies for health insurance? Will the Minister use himself there? This is what I think is even more urgent now when schoolchildren and young people are upset about Covid and there's evidence of feeling worse. There is evidence of anxiety, and it is reason to believe that less frequent feelings of distress can develop if we do not interrupt. Is there a mental - health service, how many hours do children have right there? Is that service available everywhere in the country? Are children in the country as well as children in the city? And again, this final question may be: Why have not all children been blessed with psychiatrists'well - supplied services? Can we be sure that this will be so, and that we can get out of the tire track to discuss only health care when other means are available and that our children will benefit from viewing them? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u82	Again, the president reminds me of the speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u83	A respectable president. I greatly thank all those who participated in this discussion, which has been very helpful. It shows that we here at the council should be able to resolve these issues successfully one, two, three, or as fully as possible according to the circumstances. It has also helped us to see that we are behind in thinking about the country. That's what happened. paritaprevir The Guðjón of Brenn's Brjánsson how bad conditions can be there. A mental - health team in each part of the country needs to be activated so that the service will come to those out of the country so that people there will not always need, at great expense, to attend service here in town. There's another thing about this we seem to be forgetting, and we also came up with a discussion about Covid, and there's no need for a hospital. There is also a bottleneck, a special mental hospital for both children and adults. We should not stand here five or ten years later and say: "We should have built it long ago. We're supposed to get on it right away. Another thing that we also have to figure out, and it's a serious matter that today we're talking about rehabilitateing disability, and the majority of the micromaths have mental problems, and where do we stay in a few years if we're still going to say, "Hey, we need to re-create disability? So we're supposed to be in the position that we've been through this a long time. We don't have disability, we have people who are feeling good and who can participate in the community out there. That's what we all want. Finally: When people are in BUGL's active service and they get an hour a month, they can't call it a full - time service if everyone is unhappy with it, both the child and the adult. [[The president calls.]] We need to make sure that parents and children listen to what they say and that everyone is happy about this service. In this way, we will achieve the best results.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u84	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for the most informative and well-funded discussion. In this discussion, I find that members of the Parliament burn for this group of languages, which is very important. I also think that the important underlying tone I hear from everyone is that we have an early intervention, that we need to look at society, and not just be at the end of where the third service is, although, of course, we need to make sure that there is not excessive waiting. We're working on the induction of mental and pre-competent work in play, elementary and high school schools. It is work that was started on the basis of a mental - health policy approved by the General. It really is about integrating all these views, i.e. The school, health care, and social services so that our systems talk and we are watching early intervention. My policy as health minister has been to promote psychological services and improve its availability throughout the country. As evidence of this, mental - health teams in the country have all the details of this year caring for more than 2,600 persons, people who would otherwise have had to wait for another service, have to go to town to talk to a psychiatrist, or wait elsewhere. We are meeting this in a tremendously decisive way. We have increased the number of psychologists in the clinic, and we have doubled the number in the three years that this government has been working. Today, these 66 psychologists are all around the country, for we stress equal availability regardless of their population. That is why we now have 540 million on the budget bill to ensure bioavailability is independent of the population. I wish, a respectable president, that I would have time to talk about anything else here, but I would like to agree with the viewpoints that are subject to an assessment of mental health care. I would also like to agree with the viewpoint that our systems communicate better. [[The president calls.]] By promoting the development center of the Icelandic Medical Center, we contribute to the same international service that is one of my main priorities. [[The president calls.]] Hv. Gunnlaugsdóttir This is where psychologists outside the system were mentioned, as is often discussed. There the council has made its decision that a minister is permitted to negotiate with that class, and I feel that there is something we need to discuss at the World Council Hall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u85	A respectable president. Just a few words on this request made by the members of the Central Party. The request requested that the Government review collect a report on the tax work on the implementation of tax and monitoring under customs laws and toll agreements on agrienvironmental sector. The factors we would like to take into consideration are agrienvironment schemes, the development of the import of agrienvironment schemes. It compares the export of agricultural products from EU and Norway and the national reporting on imports from the same countries and then reviews whether the agrienvironmental customs and the definition of the product under each number has been changed since the creation of the International Business Agency. I just wanted to mention it here before paying a vote on whether to allow this report request to exist.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u86	A respectable president. I don't think I'm going to be able to grant this report. I'd like to state, though, that work is being done, which is about considering many of the same factors. A group of workers who produced early in October wrote some of the main results that went down to the council, and after that group produced, I made the decision to continue my work, that it would be necessary to consider some factors further. This request is acceptable, so I feel that there is no reason except to grant this request, and then the report is done in a more formal manner, and we agree with this suggestion that there is a reason to inform a little more clearly and give more evidence of the implementation of the contracts in force.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u87	A respectable president. Yes, I would very much like to agree with this request. I think it's important to get the bigger picture exactly when it comes to these matters and at the same time stress the importance of the government's maintenance and surveillance role. I support this request.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u88	A respectable president. We're here on an excellent bill to support the projects that have been carried out on the staff of the Allied Parliament during the crowning virus epidemic. The motion I have made is that we take one step back, and it is not added to this authority to attend a remote briefing on the health issues of the senator's own or his clients. This is suggested, not by some special concern for the health of our senators, but by the opinion that the council is a good example, and not by the community, but by the fact that the social right of individuals or rights to vacations because of a child's illness is something that can be negotiated on a case by case, but is absolutely right. The willingness to give it up is not a good message for the job.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u89	President. As mentioned in the conversation last night, I understand that point of view. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson and the new proposal. I do not support it, however, because this is a question of whether we can participate in the regularly closed committees of the Generals meeting. Pirates prefer that they usually open up and that we can do our job even if we're at home or we don't make it to a meeting. This is a step toward being able to do so even for health reasons. If the adjustment is accepted, it means that even though people would feel that it would be better, for example, that they will not be able to participate in committees from home. because of broken legs, back pain, or because people are just a little loose. That's what's being suggested here that it be possible. It is important that this be possible, for otherwise we may miss meetings that we might otherwise care for and miss sharing in voting or getting information. I suggest that we regularly meet with the Generals, as Piratar and I have repeatedly done. It is also to take the step to the full. It's only supposed to have these meetings so that members of the Parliament can bring them up with full rights at a telecommunications meeting, allowing them to care for their legal duties to work properly and investigate matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u90	A respectable president. In case of a change. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson wrote about the general workforce, I would probably vote with it, and in fact, I think the whole arrangement would be implemented differently if it were. However, this is the work of members of Congress, and the majority of the section's opinion is a major concern that is expressed in the opinion of the lower section. So I vote against motion. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, of course with the whole case. Then I'd also like to say that I think we could have gone further. I assume we will in the future. I just didn't see a reason to make the adjustment of the material, as the bill discusses the work of our own generals and does not see reason to go into great litigation with other members of Congress beyond what has already been done. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-05-16.u91	Mr. President. We in the United States agree with this, like the case we were accepting the extension of the lock-up grants. At the same time, we call for a government plan to do what should be done next instead of always having a reaction called, and we are asked to act quickly through the council. We need a plan. At the beginning of the epidemic, it was understandable that we needed to respond quickly. Now the government has time to plan a short plan, as well as how we are going to work out of this deep business crisis. We in the United States have produced a plan that is equal, but we are reporting for the government's plan.
