ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u1	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, about the length of a meeting, considers the president to be an agreement that there may be a conference longer than a Senate conference may have. Let it be considered approved if no one says the same thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u2	There are: health ministers, foreign and development co-operation ministers and local and transport ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u3	Mr. President. First, I'd like to commend the P.R. and health care professionals who have been very strict in preparing and implementing the measures for the Covid-19 virus. It is important that we remain calm and make it possible for the authorities to carry out measures aimed at protecting those at risk from the virus, distributing stress and making sure that our infrastructure is able to cope with the situation. The consequences could be serious and important that we all stick together to deal with them. We must discuss, though, the circumstances that the virus is already creating individuals and individual companies. Of course, it is good that the workers of the labour market and the government are engaged in discussions about the rights of the people under siege, and it is vital that people do not have to worry about their survival. The Prime Minister spoke of the reconstituted route in the news yesterday, so it would be good if it were the highest. A minister could explain just how the export is thought - provoking. Then there is another side to this coin, the effects that the environment can have on enterprises, especially SMEs. I worry about them, especially in the light of increasing unemployment. A small company with eight employees lost, e.g. two whole months if workers have to get under a lot of stress. Even if they do not have to carry the pay, an enterprise can become highly valued by reduced production. This happens at the same time our economy is getting cold. That's why I want to ask the highest. Ministers whether the government has pondered these things and whether they have discussed possible actions and wills for such companies that are most affected.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u4	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir The Logi of Einarsson that I feel that a response in Iceland is amazingly effective and has deliberate statements and is holding these matters as far as possible. They're constantly changing from day to day. That's right. That's right. A senator that our economy has grown colder. Therefore, we in the government have looked forward to bringing economics, which would be accompanied by a financial plan, which, of course, is a great challenge in this world, since we do not really know what happens. Happily, we took certain measures to protect ourselves from changes in the economy last year. They really help us in this situation today. But we simply need to do more, and we need to put forth great effort to protect ourselves from things that happen when we do nothing. I'll take into account what you're worried about. A senator of companies where workers may be infected or just that our social consumption is beginning to get a lot closer to seeing a very growing unemployment. This is an economic and political stability that makes us not in these traditional economic dikess that we have often seen before, i.e. The tide collapses and the inflation rises. But now, growing unemployment. I don't want to stand here and say that I have all the solutions for these matters. We're working on them. We are considering that, of course, some companies are able to work at home, even if they are infected, obviously not those who are ill, into a particular environment there. We've had discussions with the labour market parties, and I think it's going to have to be done even more soon. I just want to say here that without all of us working together on this project, it's gonna be really hard for us to get out of this without a shock. [[The president calls.]] While there will undoubtedly be some fault in the business and in the community as a whole, we are under obligation to do what we can to limit it to the full.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u5	Mr. President. I don't expect the highest. A minister has all the answers, but I ask them: Has he had time to study the Senate appendage that I put forth in behalf of SMEs and sees anything in those who might benefit in that work? Will the government look at anything in the spirit of natural disasters? Will we be inspired to engage in operations attacked after a crash? I need to get something more holdy. A minister needs to say something more than just thinking about it. This must have been true because the situation can become quite serious, so I ask: Has a minister studied my suggestions and seen something in them?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u6	A respectable president. I've studied these ideas, and like what. There is also not many years since we faced unprecedented circumstances, economic collapse, bank collapse, and economic crisis, and, of course, we can use something there, to form with regard to the tourism, which I may be most concerned about in the first place in this economic crisis because we are so dependent on that article. We are an island, and flight may be what many fear today. There have already been plans for future travel policies, but the right time needs to be selected. It may not be wise to go in now when we are going down to some dollar, but when it is ready, be prepared. In this way, we may have to look at and control one business after another. We are simply going to look for any means to increase society's income both now and in the long run and to take on projects that call for both human resources and possibly the transfer between sectors that will then support us in the export and income of the population in the next few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u7	Mr. President. The spread of the Korean virus is becoming widespread, including in travel services around the world, including Iceland. With fewer tourists, especially when it happens, the competitive business is looking for ways to save. There has been considerable discussion in this country over the past few years on the activity and subheading of foreign bus companies. While there is no reason to overpower all of them, the criticism may have turned around that the companies who want to avoid being in normal and honest competition with Icelandic companies may have been able to do so unduly easily. Icelandic travelers are far from concerned with this concern, and in Denmark the authorities have responded, and just before the end of the year, to change their interpretation of EU mobilization regulations, thus limiting the period of service that foreign buses can spend in the country for seven days, and to reroute registration. In particular, they have underlined violations of these rules by seditizing the bus and a considerable amount of fines. Those who are familiar with the Danish tourist service say that these measures have proved effective against this so - called pirate activity. Today, tourism has been so busy with the negative effects of the crown virus in tourism. It's simply a stroke ahead, a stroke that we Icelanders will have to participate in. There have been concerns that many companies are tempted in the light of circumstances to go to these so - called gray areas. So the question is: Are we one of those gray areas in this business? Are we ready? Toward the end of the last year, members of the Association of Tourist Services called for a similar approach to Denmark, with intensive monitoring of these foreign bus companies. So I'd like to ask the highest. A secretary of transportation - and I realize that I'm actually asking him to put on a hat travel minister and possibly a financial minister as well, but I believe he's under it - for the situation here. Are we in some way responding to this situation, and how?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson for this inquiry, it's important. As we have seen, it may not be possible to overpower all companies, but this danger has been in place. We have seen this trend and have grown, obviously having a very negative impact. Therefore, we have been considering some ways to prevent this. It's a complicated process, like a whale. A senator entered here, this boarding warrant is actually published by the country whereby the bus company is, and since then they have been inside some international rule. This is where it has been interpreted into customs law, allowing it to remain until one year. When Dana's ideas were introduced, we immediately considered following them. I've had a meeting with my colleagues, the Danish Minister, and my experts have made a direct contact with the Department of Transport to simply follow them up. At times, we are more Catholic than the pope in carrying out some European rules and do not see the way out. On the other hand, I am the kind of person who wants to do everything when we're defending Icelandic interests and even sometimes only challenge the European principle. But when a country like Denmark in the European Union does, I have said: I want to follow their example. We're watching very closely how they work this thing, and we're setting up a similar program. Their preparation was so that they had a little relationship with these companies and presented information about what they were going to do. Perhaps the response has already been greater, even though the rule has not begun to bite.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u9	Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It's good to know this is going on. This discussion of being more Catholic than the pope has at times come up with us, and to continue this illustration, Dan is completely faithless in that regard. They're very happy to find ways, and it's good to look at them sometimes because they're truly a European country that we're not, unfortunately. Travel policies, such as any successful trade policy, take place in the public field, and these are the conversations that take place in the back rooms. The reason I'm coming up here is because there are news that's not very good from these countries that we know to use these gray areas, the message that they're going to have to increase the number of buses on the land because, in spite of all of these, it's still possible to go this way while they're moving to another country. I know the Norwegians are, for example. looking at setting up a system like Danir. I'm glad we're working on it at full speed, and I hope we get it going as soon as possible. [[The president calls.]] I know that two or three years ago, a taxpayer asked for information on foreign tourism companies, including a bus company, in this country, and that is, like the highest level. Minister is coming in, it's quite complicated to get this information. [[The president calls.]] Does a secretary know that this information is available to the government tax manager?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u10	President. For that inquiry, I could believe that there is information available in the Ministry of finance. I don't know about that, but we can get them. It doesn't make any difference to me that this is a necessary process. It wasn't thinking like that. When the system was set up, it was thought that a bus company in one country could take a group and drive in that country for a few days and then go home. And that's what Danir is trying to set up with this seven - day rule. Then it's a little more complicated, since, of course, the employee may be there for a month, but he needs to go home. We need to watch that there may be a combination of several schemes in this context, but I think it's very important to follow this up because if there's gaps in a system, it's just an international thing to find them in those countries and to take advantage of them, whether in this sector or any other part of the community. We are striving to follow very closely how Danir is doing in this, and we will at least adopt the same kind of rules if not gone further. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u11	A respectable president. The Covid-19 virus is about to reach a maximum, but at the same time, it's really bad flu, a flu that has somehow disappeared and nobody talks about, the worst flu I've ever seen, and I'm not now a baby. This flu attacks people's breathing system and causes them to cough and is up to three months after they have it. We're not talking about this. And I ask myself, " People who have this flu at most, at what risk is it to the Covid-19 virus? ' Are there any measures to map those who now have these bad flu and protect them from the Covid-19 virus? Then there is another one that has come during the day. There are 28,000,35,000 people who live in poverty, of whom 10,000 are children, of whom 3,000 are very poor. We are talking about a group of people who need to be deprived of wholesome food, health care, and medicines and who do not live in decent facilities. Sadly, these are the most vulnerable people, and these are the people who are losing up to ten years of their lives because of poor food, and as a result, they are also the people who cannot afford to buy alcohol, the people who cannot afford to go into isolation. They don't have food supplies. What are they doing for these people? Is it being helped? Is the need being mapped? Is it possible for the worst, and especially for those with children, to be in isolation? Because of poor food, poor housing, which these people have been living with for decades, their health is very bad. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is this a map set? Is it known who are and what are to be done for these people?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the questions. Of course, it is quite breathed at the interiors of the community in such conditions. Iceland today is a public defence situation, a public defence crisis. Right now, the role of the health care unit and the 1700 telephone is very high. It answers all kinds of questions. People worry about a lot of things, including. of what it is. There's a senator here. The fact is, of course, that the symptoms of Covid-19 are very similar to influenza infection and, as in influenza, Covid-19 can develop in a severe illness with lower respiratory tract infection and pneumonia, often presenting as difficulty breathing between the fourth and eighth days of illness for Covid-19. What we can recommend and do on the 1700 telephone and do to those who contact our health care providers is to advise them to take care of themselves as they always do. Therefore, if people have reason to believe that they might be infected, it is recommended that they be tested and done in more than 300 cases where they have been investigated. Hv. A senator in particular asks about the poverty and the condition of those who are materially poor under such circumstances. That's for good reason to talk about it. Therefore, it is important that we take steps toward reducing health - care costs and making sure that people do not suffer a loss of income when going to an environment, they are now having a conversation between the labour market partners and the government. Yes, we certainly are thinking about the factors. A senator rolled up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u13	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, and I sincerely hope that something is being done. But I'm going to turn my songs into a cross and ask her what else I read the other day, but I also care about children. Is it true that since January 1 a law has been changed that concerns children who need tools such as splints and slippers, and the cost of them has gone up dramatically? People have failed to pay anything to over 100,000 credits, for children who are in dire need of this? That's a terrible number, of course. If a couple who have low - paying jobs with a child who needs braces, they suddenly have to pay 100,000 dollars. " Must they ask themselves, " Am I able to afford it? ' What if they cannot afford to help a child with a stiff leg that needs braces? Is it true that this Regulation has been changed so that these individuals are denied strength for shoes and braces?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u14	A respectable president. During my time at the Ministry of Health, we have taken considerable financial measures to reduce the patient's payment. We've been looking to the health care and dentists, and the elderly and the elderly. A senator and I have discussed at a council hall before. We are talking about certain measures to reduce the payment of tools and support for babies born with cleft palate and their families. All these decisions have been made to improve the health benefits of the country and to reduce the risk of public discrimination in access to economic health. This knows why. A senator who has been very much at heart with me, and I have stressed these aspects of my work. For individual decisions or groups, and for what reason? A senator is asking about my opinion that there must be some misunderstanding about a case that I will look for answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u15	Mr. President. At the beginning of the year, a team of teams were appointed to be analyzed and suggested how to remedy the disaster at the emergency room in Fos Soil. Enrolled with two Swedish experts, experienced and respected, in order to write a present - day sector that is presented as an external review, a report to the Ministry of Health. In view of the third month in which the governor of the Land Hospital failed to respond to the emergency room's emergency crisis, according to a report on the Web site Science, these experts appear to have been visible to them in the third month, and they continue to say that rather than resorting to action, they have painted the hospital as a victim, which, according to the opinion of the experts, was extremely dangerous. The report of these Swedish experts will no different from the strong criticism of the hospital's officials in this regard. It is under these circumstances that last night I had the opportunity to recommend for a bill that the government of the Land Hospital will be established. As mentioned in the report, both medical advice and the head of the National Institute of Professors have spoken of a special government arranged by the head of the medical professions. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister on her response to the report of the foreign experts as well as the highest. A minister would be willing to apply himself to the review currently conducted on health care law, taking this subject into consideration, appointing the hospital's administration under the merits given in the bill I have mentioned and representing yesterday. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. As noted in his case, two Swedish experts who have been discussing a similar subject in Sweden were here to use their experience and insight and knowledge of the situation at the National Hospital. This report was submitted as a benefit to the campaign group, and particularly to me to sharpen the sample on what would be considered. And like a cot. A senator refers to the Swedish report being submitted as added to the report of the campaign group along with other documents. What is stated in the Swedish experts'indications, in part, indicate comparable and consistent indications that came from the surgeon general's office a year ago. National surgeon generals have noted a lack of specific indication in these materials a year ago and including a year ago. that is why the surgeon general's office suggested that the campaign group be set up where the Ministry's presence was initiated. So my reaction to Sweden's report is mainly the ones that have been traced here, and I thought it was important that it be put into place as useful at work, as there are suggestions that appear in the Swedes that continue, so to speak, in the report of the campaign group. About a question why. A senator for the administration of the Hospital has not learned that I know what kind of government it is talking about or how it should be made up. I have said that I am ready to examine this idea, even though I previously described that I do not quickly see exactly what the benefits would be. [[The president calls.]] I am not yet convinced that we are ready for the journey that will require legal adjustments, but I am ready to listen to arguments with and against them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u17	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer and would like to use this opportunity, and let me point out the arguments presented in a paper with the bill I recommended yesterday. The landlord is the largest firm in the country and the largest workplace in the country. The land hospital is an enterprise and a compromise of corporate laws. Enterprises in general have control and governments have a very important role in companies. They are the Commission for maintenance as well as for support. The bill contains key tasks that should be carried out by a management board. It is assumed that it would be appointed by a qualified physician in the field of health care and in the field of operating, management, planning, and other related factors. I want to use this opportunity to encourage the highest. A minister to study this matter carefully in the hope of higher power. In this work, a minister takes up this matter that various health groups, especially doctors, have been urged. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u18	A respectable president. I know the discussion in this case. Senator. However, I would like to disagree with the basic understanding that the Landsspite is a business. The land hospital is the primary site of a third - degree medical service, which, of course, is a huge part of a powerful welfare system and the internal services we need to perform as a sovereign state, but is not a business like each other. A traditional government of the hospital would not change the responsibility of the director of the hospital. He is still responsible for all his activities, economics, and human resources. The only difference between what's happening today is that the director is responsible for the chairman and the hospital administration directly. These are factors that need to be considered in the light of the way we organise our community's agencies and our community's responsibilities and the clear responsibility of the director of all the estates towards their local Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u19	A respectable president. Recently we participated in what is known as the agreed agreement on a safe, organized, regular transport of people or in English 'The Global Comact for Safety, Orderly and Regressive Migration'. The objective is to include To create a co-founding basis among the world's countries for organized and coordinated response to human transport, to make them organized, to have them disorganized, and to organise the legal and response of the international community in the best way of dealing with both human migration and their inevitable consequences. Today, the situation between Greece and Turkey has become even more serious and has long been serious. It is that Turkey will stop extensive refugees from crossing to Greece. Greece will, of course, be blocking this people's quest. Inevitably, this results in even greater pressures on Greece, i.e. the outer border of the European Union. This means that the problem will increase. I could give a talk about it, if I had more time, how much responsibility we have based on hindering people in general, but the problem has been that the European Union is generally thinking things out of its own context and not the context of Europe as a whole, i.e. That Europe can share the pressures and pressures that will inevitably come from these huge migrations. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether Iceland is using this cooperation ground and in some way participating in a coordinated response to conditions that are expected to be even worse. In particular, I am interested in knowing whether there is a conversation between the secretary of state or the European Union's foreign service about distributing Europe's pressures rather than letting it all land in such countries as Greece and Italy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u20	A respectable president. Like what? A senator knows this case isn't in my language, but I can say anything. The senator's concern, in fact, has been that long. A vast number of people have been living in refugee camps for a very long time, and we know the situation today, as it were. In short, a senator was a quick shaver. Then there is also a flash of light, and we can see more refugee problems in the future, even though we hope that it will not come about. But when it comes to certain aspects of what the government is doing about this, I think it's more correct. The senator points that question to the minister of the seminar, since that minister is best discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u21	A respectable president. Then I'll get it right to the top. Secretary of State will not be concerned with this party over his head? I have to admit that while the jury may be members of another minister, a foreign minister must have a role in developing some common understanding between European countries about how to handle problems like this, in which decisions must be coordinated and the state must agree on what they are going to do to cope with the problem. So I'm surprised at the answer a little bit. Minister. I understand that this group of litigators, as he calls it, belongs to another minister, but I still feel that foreign service and the highest. Minister of state should have some ambition in this case. I'm wondering if it's the highest. A minister would be willing to take more responsibility for the case and to interfere more fully with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u22	A respectable president. I have to admit, I don't quite know what to do with it. A senator is leaving. The foreign services and foreign ministers now have a very good cooperation with other Ministry and other Ministers. Surely there is no exception when it comes to the minister who handles these matters and if there is something involved in the foreign service, we, of course, work with the right decision to resolve matters. I believe, however, that it is always wise to understand clearly where the responsibility lies and where it lies. This is true in this category of languages, as is true of others. It's not about any individual minister's ambition or anything like that. The Council is what it is. And if you have any ideas about changing a system there, it's just a matter of business. But as for the cooperation of foreign service with other agencies, it's very good and it's not a concern.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u23	The president would like to announce that the Parliament's Council has received word from the Congress of the Agency on the change of men in the committees of the Parliament, as is Article 16. Congress, so that Willum Þór Thor Þórsson takes up his seat as the head of the Economic and Business Committee instead of Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir and Silja Gunrsdotir, the Shellla Sigrándjörn Kristjánsdóttir of the same committee. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u24	Mr. President. V.E.G. Minister. Hv. City of Congress. First, I want to thank you for having special discussions on the subject improved parenting, a way to prevention, and improved human health. Child rearing is not often evident in a council hall, but it is time for me to discuss one of the most urgent activities of all of us who have children or who have dealings with young ones, since training is a basis for the well - being of people. All too often the media bring news of people's distress, violence, domestic violence, the drug abuse of young people, coldness, life - style disorders, and other factors. More recently, brutal violence took place in Kópavogur, when dozens of teenage boys were bombarded with beatings and kicks of non - Israelite peers. What can we do? How could youths act in this way? Muggle. Without question, there are many persons, i.e. Depending on the character and character of each individual, might violent behavior be rooted in the types displayed in the environment? Yes, the environment in which we grow up and the way we live we create our own self - image and visions of who we are and how we should act. Parents and other inventors, teachers, and friends can make moves and affect how we become human beings. Movies and video games can also be influenced by media and characters. Tabula rasa, an unwritten magazine, is a word that is often taught by realist John Locke, who, from the time he was born in 1690, learned that the human mind was unwritten and that experience would shape the individual. There's a point. A newborn child is not born badly or badly fed. It's society that can make children bad. Of course, a newborn child can have certain personality traits that he is able to achieve, but they are our society, our parents, our teachers, and all those who have dealings with young ones, to think of them as being happy, compassionate, understanding, and may be determined without showing superiority and violence. Young people can record things. We all know that. Of course, the problem may be that special assistance is needed by educators, psychologists, and psychiatrists. Raising a child is our most difficult work in life, and it does not matter how it is done. Parents can influence the way their children are doing things and, yes, their part. If parents need help in raising their children, they need help, and it is important that the responsibility for training is not being considered on the school system. Yesterday I heard a story about nine or ten - year - old boys who had apparently been powered into violent computer games, and their ugly speech style was being spread through classes. With the permission of a president, I'd like to paraphrase their horrors, and my words are these: First, you choose a prostitute to join you. Then you will choose some ways to execute it. You can imagine the words that were really there. Mr. President. What can we do? In 2014, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, the then prime minister, established the Ministry of Public Health. The World Health Organization described a remarkable initiative in which the Ministry of Ministers met four ministers, Prime Ministers, Health Ministers, Education Ministers, Social Affairs and Housing Ministers. At the same time, a consulting committee was set up, and a diverse group of experts won public health policies that the Ministry of Health sent off in 2016. One of the action of this policy is called a study course for the parents and the future skills. The objective is that in all young and baby protection around the country, parents will have the opportunity to attend a course to promote positive and positive parenting practices. The project is a total $2 billion cost. K. Is this another course that will not be followed? I'm asking. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What is the vision of a minister of better parenting in this country? Does the Minister consider that this action will be carried out by public health policy, of course, with all the others, a course for parents, all over the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Una María Óskarsdóttir for requesting this special discussion on improving parenting and better public health. First off, wish who. A senator after a discussion of a vision for improving child rearing in this country and how the above suggests that it is best to raise children and young people. We know that in order to succeed in rearing children and young people, many need to make a team. Often it has been said that it takes a village to raise a child, so society needs to be supportive of both children and families. I could tell some stories about my own personal experience with parenting, end up with four kids, but I don't think that's exactly what it is. A senator is asking. Our vision of the future in these matters must take into account what has been proved by science and research to be the most effective in supporting the health and development of children and young people, and we already have measures to do so. If we look at things that are particularly focused on health issues, both public and clinical policies. A senator here referred to and to a mental - health policy and plan, the importance of stressing the circumstances and care of the younger children. Research suggests that pregnancy and the early years of life are more important than previously thought and that during the first few years, people's health and feelings are highly predictive of age. Therefore, parents, especially those who have lived under difficult circumstances and trauma, need to be strengthened. Careful care in the early series of activities shapes the response and attitude toward future projects. The health care there plays a key role in multidisciplinary maternal protection and child protection and then continues to accompany the children into primary school years with the health care of schoolchildren. All of this is a global example. The policies and procedures of mental health care were required to set up a working group to provide suggestions for the induction of psychopoietic activities in play, basic and higher schools. This group returned their proposals to me. They reach not only health care but also educational and social services, even more. The proposals of this group have been adopted by the government, and their implementation calls for cooperation, but a sense of cooperation on this project is well suited to the Management Board's management team on the subject of children. This group was appointed last January, and they have the responsibility of contributing to cooperation and coordination between recruitment and molding Iceland's policy, vision, and goals that contribute to the success of children. The control team supports and cooperates with a Parapolitic Parliamentary Committee on Children's issues, which is a group that is not supposed to have in political pits. There is a major gap in progress in the coordination of successful children and young people. More important than that, it is important to protect the important success of a local country in reducing drug abuse by young people, including drinking alcoholic beverages, as it has been observed at a international level. The result was achieved by the concerted efforts of households, schools, and health authorities. Hv. A senator then asks how the minister intends to use himself to meet a public health policy on future training and skills, a course for parents. As the policy shows, much of the child's way of life, feelings, and self - image is shaped by parental upbringing. Experienced parental training courses have been conducted throughout the years, e.g. correspondent in Reykjavík, in the West, in the city of Rhinetown. The results of these parental training courses based on knowledge of effective parenting methods have been evaluated in research, and research has shown that parents who have been taking these classes are more likely to use more of the preferred parenting methods and less of the undesirable methods after participation. It has also been found that parents are more confident in their upbringing and are more confident in setting needed boundaries. This led to studies for parents, parenting, and future skills, but the goal of this project is to promote positive ways of training by parents and guardians of six years of age and younger. This should be done by reinvestment of training for professionals in the mothers, young and baby's health care and parental education. The construction and responsibilities of the project were placed on the health care of the capital area, and a Greek and behavioral station began to oversee the project. The course has been held and is still being conducted for both parents and health professionals. In accordance with the requirements for increasing the knowledge and skills of health professionals, specific training courses have been conducted in all medical practice. In May 2019, the final course of this campaign was held, with 58 nurses and midwives participating in the infant protection program. It's designed for nurses and other professionals. In general, it has been a great pleasure for students with the course and the interest of continuing to do so for parents throughout the country as well. The best way to start these studies is to be considered in all medical practice. This project is to be assigned to the National Institute of Development, which is involved in harmonisation and coordination between professionals at health clinics, quality development and health benefits, in consultation with health institutions that run clinics and independent operating health care centres throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u26	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for taking the initiative in this discussion of improving child rearing, a way of procrastination, and public health. To improve child - care conditions and public health, everyone, the government, rural society, professional people, and, of course, families need to be united. I would like to talk about what is going on with us in the political field. With good intentions, we can take a huge step toward improving our upbringing and improving human health. We can do so in equal measure. Social and economic inequality, according to research, is one of the greatest public health issues in the world. The World Health Organization has strongly emphasized that every community examines the social factors of health care, especially those related to inequities. Social inconsistencies have a major impact on the health of children and adults, and scholars have shown a clear link between health and poor health. Thus, illness can lead to poor social and economic conditions, but even poor social and economic conditions can have a significant negative impact on one's health. At the same time that governments often talk about the amount of revenue in this country, it is not available to overlook the large group that simply does not make ends meet every month. Growing up and living under such circumstances with constant concern about where the home will be next month, if there will be anything to eat, etc. There is a threat to health and, at any given time, can and should have governments step in with authority. Let us not watch averages, watch those mentioned, and stress how to assist them, since this is our most important work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u27	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for this important discussion, discussing public health in the country. I think it is very important for us senators to take these things very seriously, as shown in the introduction earlier and as in Minister's answers. I would like to make it my subject during the brief speech period that I have how we senators can contribute to improving human health in this country. For the council there are several suggestions for increased bioavailability of consumer drugs with unlimited bioavailability. If it was available to everyone, the number of new consumers would increase. Piranha has provided a bill for criminal possession of drug drugs, for example. No age limit for who can take drugs. Children in elementary school can, in effect, be with one who does not carry drugs. What message is it in the community that children may start carrying drugs in the schools of the country? We're talking about advertising alcohol and the end-of-the-world alcohol services, but nobody in this room has suggested anything to face the conditions that will arise when these laws are approved need to improve their treatments. Already there are hundreds of people on the list waiting for treatment, and what do you think will already be the crime charge and the consumption space will be on every corner of the street? What will be the situation then? There is no suggestion that these people's people will be assured by treatment. How will mental health care at the Land Hospital be maintained when this century begins? I say, we have to face the laws and influences we are going to have in our community by bringing in treatment options for those who fall into the pit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u28	And tell the truth.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u29	President. This is interesting and needs to be discussed. I agree with the importance of strengthening and helping my parents by providing them with tools and knowledge to help their children. I also know very well as a parent that you often lack tools and knowledge about how you can help your children through this very difficult time, especially in younger years. A report on the status of children in Iceland showed that a large proportion of domestic violence, e.g. An explanation of the overwhelming stress of parents'parents because of difficult circumstances. These include economic stress, poverty, work hours, stress that is simply replaced by parental circumstances. Children's behavior problems are increasing because parents lack the tools, time, and ability to help their children, and as a result, the harsh reaction of their parents is also growing. This will be a vicious circle that becomes increasingly difficult to break. This is a real problem for these families. It revealed that 10,000 children live in poverty in Iceland, the president of the United States. This is ridiculous. It must be a priority in our society to eliminate poverty. We must see that this is the basis for raising healthy children who are at ease and who are allowed to thrive in our community. We also received insight into how the system responds and deal with individuals with addiction problems. These are individuals who also have children. There are people we need to help and help, not stamp out as criminals and some undesirable people in our community. They are people who need our open arms and help them. Regarding courses for parents, it's a good thing, but I think it's extremely important that we also provide psychological help, for there is an overwhelming amount of knowledge that parents could take advantage of. [[The president calls.]] It would save us a lot of money in society if parents could get help from a psychiatrist right away and get the help and advice they need to help their children. Thank you for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u30	V.E.G. President. Thank you. This special discussion and the highest. Minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir into her discussion. It's good that we discuss public health, even more so than ever before. It has not been long since we had such a talk with the highest degree. Minister on the prevention and health of senior citizens. This discussion presents a approach to younger ones, children, and child rearing, and it certainly refers to a long period of preparation for the first. I think it may be said that we are doing much to improve the setting and environment that support our children's upbringing, whether it is health care, school environment, leisure activities of any kind or sports or youth. The money and the time spent are well spent and are involved in understanding and knowledge, and not least the assurance of the importance of taking time for precious associations that research confirms that our children are very important and are part of the long - term development of a positive attitude toward them. This is evident in policy work at the highest level. Health Ministers and the role of surgeons and the work done in the health of society. What has changed in recent years, a respectable president, and I state that is a very positive development and an important part of supporting children is an increasing share of parents in the activities of our children at school, at leisure, and in sports. It is an incentive, and the resulting loss of confidence, a sense of self - worth, and a general sense of well - being. All studies show that it reduces any abnormal behavior. We're supposed to add emphasis to this and I agree with those who have mentioned here the economic equation. He's very important. V.E.G. Governments have shown this by doing so, including. using a cross-cutting approach, and at the highest. The minister was here, with the cooperation of a minister, as we see to form in the National Childhood project. Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u31	A respectable president. I'd like to start by celebrating this discussion. I think that the very discussion of improved human health is what we as a community have the best opportunity to do better. There are a number of factors when it comes to education and prevention that we can contribute greatly to the health and well - being of the people in general, young and old. I can't take part in this discussion without reminding of a fine case that we were asked to make psychological services a personal part of the formal medical system that we've subtracted for too long, i.e. That health insurance will fully enter the cost of psychiatric services for young and old alike. We rarely talk about our feelings. Me and the Icelanders may be a little Finnish as a society. It is not easy to talk about feelings of distress, but that is, of course, what we need to do. We need to open it up in basic schools and after schools and make psychological services a valid part of our medical system. We know how important that is. Spiritual feelings have a profound effect on our long - term well - being and well - being. We're not talking about this at all. We have come close to mental - health and mental - health services as a bit of a exercise in our society, to say that we feel bad, that we have some mental illness, but of course, we have a spiritual illness, as well as physical illness, that it is important to get help right away, that it is not shameful to talk about it, and that our health systems deal with spiritual distress or illness in exactly the same way as physical illness. I really hope we take advantage of this opportunity now and finish this fine case with regard to the costs of Medical Insurance in the Psychological Service.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u32	A respectable president. We are discussing better parenting, a way of prevention, and the public health of children. Thank you. paritaprevir At the time of this discussion, as well as the minister, the Una of María Óskarsdóttir's daughter. Why are we in this position? Why are there some in positions, as noted, 10,000 children in poverty? Why on earth are 3,000 of those children very poor? How is it that we have a society that offers this? What are the consequences for these children? Let us see what is going on in society today. We can watch the city of Reykjavík, where there is a dispute, and a large group of children's homes are in a strike. Those who are babysitting are the lowest in the pay ladder, low-paying slaves who pay under the minimum, below the poverty line. What do the classes of Reykjavík have on their policy list? Yes, improving the benefit of women. Do they have a new opportunity to do so? No, they'd rather have a strike than a better option. These are women who are doing two jobs, wearing themselves out - and where are the children in the meantime? They have keys around their neck. How on earth can we keep such things going for a decade? This is now the third year when a group of people was founded on combating children's poverty. At that time, 10,000 children were in poverty, and there were also 3,000 very few children. Nothing changes. It is up to us at the council to make sure that this is changed, and we should change it for the children immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u33	Mr. President. I'd like to begin my case by thanking a prominent man, boy. paritaprevir Una María Óskarsdóttir, for the discussion. These are better parenting and public health. Undeniably, many major questions come to mind, but I would like to direct my attention to the environment, the care, and the training of boys in particular. There are a number of studies and figures that reflect their feelings and that suggest that many of them have difficulty in dealing with girls beyond their peers. It is best to recall a discussion I had recently raised at a council about the status of boys. Over the years, there have been many negative talk in society, often prejudiced and in the chapters of hatred about males whom young boys cannot avoid, and they do not build up their emotional and self - image. Admittedly, they are affected by the discussion. Would it not be worthy of research to discuss the challenge to cope with the drug problem, drop out of school, and many other such factors that are known to everyone? We agree on progress in the health of the nation in recent decades, Mr. President. We seek to do better, and that is what this discussion is all about. We must not lose our sense of urgency, since there are many threats. Ideas of easier access to alcohol, increased freedom in advertising about alcohol, freedom in terms of access to various illicit drugs in this country are threats to which we need to keep on the watch. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u34	Mr. President. New challenges exist in training children during the 21st century, including those of the 21st century C.E. As a result of technological change and, as a result, social change. This is important, and that is exactly what counts when we discuss this about human health in the community. We at the Council are, by both being a seminar on society and by the laws we can set, in a position to create a community that supports parents in their role of training. V.E.G. A health minister has considered a number of factors that are particularly relevant to her ministry and to the public health policy. I'd like to agree with them anyway. Elders who have spoken about the importance of equalizing these issues, for it is important that children have equal opportunities. It also involves public health that children have equal opportunities to engage in upbuilding leisure activities, whether music or sports. Also, there are some things that I feel are important to me, which I would like to add in addition. The balance of family life and employment, including the shortening of the work week, is important. Schools are great, including. for socializing children, but it also takes time to be at home with your parents. Finally, I would like to mention the birthworm and its extension. [[The president calls.]] I think it will be of utmost importance when it comes to raising children and their well - being and their parents.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u35	Mr. President. Like others, I want to start by thanking you. paritaprevir Una María Óskarsdóttir's daughter for bringing up issues involving children and young people in the Assembly Hall. That's a good move. What is more important than the public health of children in my opinion is poverty and discrimination. It should be kept in mind that poverty also manifests itself in a lack of spiritual and cultural nutrition. Some of us see flashes of light. Some areas seem to be reserved and financed for the construction and quality of services, and this takes on children who do not receive their school and social life. This can be the result of social and social conflicts between social groups in time. When parents are in pain and are in trouble, they are not to be punished by the government or the government but to help them spiritually. This is important to bear in mind. Governments need to increase the equation and focus particularly on ideal children outside the current, who place their arms around them children. This requires both affection and money. Mr. President. I have to admit that I don't know anything about human health, but I don't think there's much worse guidance in these matters than old Icelandic philosophy: there are more and more children going to thrive. I think children need physical, nutrition, culture, and love - and equations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u36	A respectable president. Like other members of Parliament, I thank you for this discussion and wondered if this is simply the first time that it is discussed in the General Assembly. [[Up front.]] Well, maybe it's time. I found the most interesting questions asked. Minister, what would the minister's vision of improving his upbringing in this country and how a minister felt best to raise children and young people as well as to whether a minister was willing to use himself to meet the public health policies' efforts for future training and skills? Happily, research has worked out what is desirable for our children and how child - rearing methods work best. There are, however, differences between individuals and children, and thus there are different ways for each child to be suitable for him or her. Of course, in this as well as so many other people listen to the experts and have to say that of the people here, of my fine colleagues, I don't think very few are among those who are special experts in child rearing matters except perhaps one of the perfunctory ones who know the situation very well. I think it is only natural that we invite parents to be instructed in the best way of training. A large number of experts also offer their services, and with a simple search on the Internet, you can see a number of home pages, a number of good advice, and courses available. I would like to avoid some form of parenting and with full respect for the Supreme Being. A health minister who I don't doubt is also the best mother, I don't think she's the main person to tell people exactly how to raise children, like other members of Congress who have spoken here today. As a mother, I try to do my best in this regard, but I do not intend to tell others what to do. I think there's a question about whether this is going to be allowed to advertise alcohol, whether drugs are a crime, or how best to deal with the devastating problems caused by drugs is not necessarily the right subject for a child's upbringing. [[The president calls.]] [[For example: Well?]] [[Foreground on: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u37	President. I agree with the importance of parents receiving all the help they need in their important role as inventors. The mind behind the inwards of what? No doubt, a advocate of speech would be good, and it would be easy to discuss support to parents when training their children. But I can't help reading between the lines and putting a talking talker's address in the context of the Central Party's presentation of his vision of the desirable child training today. Hv. An apocalyptic, Una María Óskarsdóttir, referred to certain actions as chairman of the Middle Party, however. paritaprevir In his day as prime minister, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson The public health of children is a good price, but I can't say that. paritaprevir The Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnlaugsson should be the guide of parents in their upbringing with their ancient ideas about child rearing. [[For example: Well?]] I'm still a memorable word. Last year a senator who could not imagine teaching his parents about climate change should be the other way around, parents should instruct their children and live, from the parents'inactions that threaten the future of their children. Hv. Apparently, there is considerable concern that video games cause bad language, and they usually send us vague messages about what causes violent behavior in this context of children. Let it be the difference, but no doubt it is well said that the older generations always consider the youth to be unhappily and aherder, a much more unruly than they were. I feel that this spirit is floating over lakes as a matter of time before young people are discussed, and there are few representatives here. So I want to defend the youngest generation. It's better out of sight, wide vision, and even fairness than all of us here with a number. It would be good for us to allow her to raise us from time to time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u38	A respectable president. Never too much emphasis is placed on human health. It should be directed to all age groups and especially to young people. In this country, there has been an awakening to the health of communities. Farmers around the country have been particularly concerned about this. In the last summer, the rural society was officially a member of the health community, and it was the 28th country society that became a member of the community. When we visit the local community's Web site, we can see that they have done quite well with the educational and educational programs in schools and for the population and have kept educational and related events. With the signature of a health - care contract, rural society is determined to carry out a targeted public health work. It tells itself that living in such a society is better. The aims reach all the branch services of our society from high school to seniors' activities, and others are impressed by it. A respectable president. On the welfare board, there's a plagion proposal. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson is the 1st mover, a proposal for a national interest in public health - related prevention that the Allied Council concluded to assign a government to appoint a group who receive the task of implementing national policies and initiatives in public health - related prevention. It is implemented into several teams, and the conclusion of the report says, with the permission of a president: The national health and well - being of all age groups must be covered by national health and health factors. It is necessary to promote the public health work carried out by a surgeon with increased financial resources to the seminary, such as research, evolution, and the growth of public health funds. More emphasis must be paid on human health prevention through the cooperation and support of the health system and the implementation of established public health policies. The increase in government donations is important in the long term to increase the balance of future health costs. So I say, "Go on with your public health and thank you for your discussion. "
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u39	A respectable president. We're talking about child rearing, prevention and public health, and we've gone through a lot of suspicions. I think it just shows how we've been raised as members of Congress. How should we deal with children when, as we have seen, we have an excess of people in poverty and poverty? We have sports strengths, but the poorest families cannot benefit from them because their strength is not enough. He may be good enough to play soccer, handball, or gymnastics, but to get there is just the first step. They need clothes, shoes, and other equipment. Those at the bottom of the food chain are held there by government, by government by government, and they can't afford it. Then there's another, we've got a lot of kids who need access to Children's League. There's some amazing relics. How does that affect us? The ADHD organizations also have diagnostic problems. This shows that we are trapped in the same merry-go-go-round, we're all lost, we're back in a year or two, and we're talking about the exact same thing that nothing has changed. I think the question is, Is it our upbringing that causes this, or what causes us to talk about the same things without changing anything?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u40	Mr. President. Thank you very much. In fact, a minister of answers and would like to say that child - rearing experiences can often do much good. We can learn from those who tell us how to do this. What's under here is an operation in public health policy. The work being done there is based on work, ideas, and, of course, the research of experts on child rearing, and I stress that it is. Besides, I appreciate it. The members of the council here have taken a silent call and discussed the important matter that we take good care of our children. I would especially like to mention that parents are so important in this regard. There are practical methods based on research on the best methods. This is not something that is wrong, nor is it some state - of - age upbringing. Our children are in school, where they learn various things, but it is not for teachers to raise children in a certain way. That is the role of my parents, and that is what I stress. In this discussion, I also stress that we need to start talking more about what we can do to prevent all the problems we face in society, a problem I mentioned in my opening words today, not just what treatments are under control of the problem. I appreciate a lot of debates. Members of Congress, of course. Inequities and poverty have an effect. Regarding domestic violence, we can also mention a thing called learning behavior, and as mentioned, such behavior can be learned from video games and television. [[The president calls.]] We're not supposed to increase the bioavailability of drugs. It affects our children's upbringing. We're not supposed to increase advertising about alcohol. I appreciate the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u41	A respectable president. Thank you for the discussion. As is often the case, it goes a lot beyond what it really is. A senator sought in his inquiry and suggested keeping a particular focus, so to speak, around certain matters that have been approved by the government. I hope that I have managed to answer for exactly that factor and that direct action in my previous answer. I think it is important, though, to gather together at the end, after listening to talks at the end. Congress on these matters, of course, that child training conditions are the work of society. How vital it is that parents'skill is focused on our public ministry because we are responsible for it too! But in the final analysis, our children's upbringing turns to so much the community as a whole, i.e. of equality, housing, and not having to experience violence or other threatening situations in their daily lives. The fight against poverty is also the struggle for the well - being of all children. Hv. Congressmen have mentioned stress and stress in everyday life, which I believe is an important factor, especially that attracts children and parents during their first lifetimes. It is important to lay the foundation for good mental health and public health. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Víglundsson spoke of psychologists in the medical system as if it were a completely new idea. Today, there are about 60 psychologists in the public health system, in the health care department, and in mental - health professionals all over the country. In this regard, there have been major steps in the past three years that have changed in general the mental - health vision and have been the long - term revolution that has been called after. [[The president calls.]] Thank you. A candidate for the initiative, finally saying: We also need to remember that it teaches the children to whom they have been put. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u42	A respectable president. This change in law can't be supported because it's taking away the rights of the car sale for used cars. It's supposed to be a simple system, but I can't see how to do it because it's being put under the money of cars, making confusion, and opening up fraud and stealing through a used car store. It would be more appropriate to address other things, such as a media board, a total unnecessary committee that has come from 50 million to 500 million and that is probably billions of people. To upset it, which has worked so far, I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u43	Mr. President. Unfortunately, this bill is mixed in bags, two chapters are fine, and the other two are lousy. It's put together in a hurry because the Independence Party wants it to look like a liberal party that is fighting the system - which it isn't. That's why he's attacking a system that's been doing well. He wants to tear it down and destroy it. I can't do that. It's a mistake, and I've said in the past that, when the bill returns to the bill that corrects the mistakes made here, and takes back the speed that is shown here, I will, of course, support that bill. Even I would want to make it my own, as it turns out how this experience turns out to be bad. In three words: hurry, outward appearance, impulsive. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u44	It's very sweet to come here and explain his vote. It is not every day, and in fact, all too few of us will vote with a simple rule. It's all happened, and whenever it happens, I've been watching it. I haven't even started last night, but it's the same speech that comes from someone who can't support it. It's always like this: I'm very involved, but it's just not the right time, or it's not exactly the correct wording, or it's not exactly some way now, just before noon or what it is, so I can't support it. I find it very striking to see how the media exposes themselves in this matter. It's about one thing, a respectable president, and it's a simple rule. They are to come to the door just as they are dressed and say, "We are not a follower. " They should stop wearing us out on a spindock. [[The point is, you've got a twist.]] I'm glad I moved with the Middle Class. [[The president calls.]] I felt that they were getting a little calm, but it's getting better. It's just very simple, it's either you and I want to simplify our rule or not. The media don't want the simple rule. [[Take it up: bullshit.]] [[Take it up: bullshit.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u45	A respectable president. Of course, I support this bill that we've done very well with. The Economic and Business Committee. I'll make sure of what. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson's saying there's a rule. What we're doing here is simplifying a rule and accepting rules set before we had rules that generally dealt with consumer protection, as they do today. Here we are just looking to the northern countries, where we would like to go and do things like that. Here, we're actually paying a vote on a simple rule, huh? paritaprevir It's Sæmundsson's stone.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u46	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u47	It's just fine to get the statement that not all members of this hall support it. The middle-class stands out specifically, and that's very interesting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u48	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a proposal to be agreed on by the State Department's Committee to establish the decision of the joint EEA on the conversion of 31 to the EEA Convention. This book deals with cooperation in specific areas beyond the limit of the four aspects of freedom. The Commission has discussed the matter and has contacted its representatives from the Ministry of State and Environment and Resources. The committee requested subsequent meetings that were excellent and helpful discussions that took place on the Foreign Affairs Committee on this matter, also asking answers to questions related to this matter. The Ministry was in response to their comments. The answers were readily received and are published, saved in this language, on the II Parliament's website in the usual way in the introduction. It also presents a public presentation as a State Department and the Environment and Transport Committee received in the case of the two committees'joint meeting in leading up to this case, which is in accordance with the Conventional Treatment of the EEA. It is a meeting that was held over a year ago and was introduced a so - called official release. This proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the Commission's decision on the conversion of 31 books, as previously explained, and on the basis of the Convention on National, Norway, and the European Union's agreement on a common target of recession in the period 2021◯2030. It is attributed to the committee opinion as well as, of course, to a proposal for a judicial hearing as to the type of action involved. There are a few of them. I'd like to state that this is not a traditional EEA case, as it is shown in chapter 4 of the Parliamentary Directive, in a paper with her. You will see whether any EU types will fall under the EEA Convention. There have certainly been some types under the EEA contract, such as e.g. Rules related to the European Union's business system as discussed here on the general ETS system. It seems to me that this has been done because of Iceland's special wishes on the subject, i.e. to participate in this system, but not conventional EU-ES cases as such as Iceland was obliged to participate on the basis of the EEA Convention because the EFTA countries have generally opposed the introduction of climate commitments measures into the EEA Convention. It doesn't have to be surprising because the EFTA countries are, as you know, Iceland and Norway are mostly, and also Liechtenstein. Iceland and Norway have a high standard of climate care, compared with the European Union. This matter is rooted in Iceland's involvement in the Paris Convention in 2016, which committed Member States to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by certain measures. In 2018, Iceland began talking to the EU about being allowed to join by EU countries in the process of achieving the Paris Convention's targets. On the part of the EU it was necessary that if Iceland wanted to co-operate, it would have to be a partnership on the basis of the EEA agreement and thus Iceland should submit to the same commitments as EU Member States, e.g. monitoring. Both Iceland and Norway had other ideas for this cooperation, but the landing became in accordance with EU wishes, although the types of the EU would still be included in the Protocol 31 with the EEA agreement but not in the section of the environmental agreement. Thus, it is well thought that this cooperation is in its nature and legality, de joure as we sometimes say, not including what was agreed on in Iceland under the EEA Convention. In this respect it is not a traditional EEA case that is here for the payment of an assembly. Norway has not previously cooperated with the EU in climate change, but it has been requested during this period. Both Iceland and Norway wanted to sign a traditional national rights agreement, but the EU demand was beginning to use the EEA contract for this purpose and then 31 as I have traced it. In general, authority sources do not adhere to the Protocol 31, but in this case it was decided to rely on the traditional two-compliant system, which makes it possible for EFTA and EFTA, ESA, to be granted authority on the use of accounting 31 for this purpose. In other words, this case is not a traditional EU case, although it is introduced to the council under that premise and it will be discussed in accordance with that. In my opinion, there's a flaw in the fact that it's rather limited. The matter was first introduced to the council, as I explained earlier, in 2018 before its arrival in the presence of the European Commission and was introduced to the State Department and Transport Committee in the usual manner presented by the EEA and gave the committees a common presentation, as mentioned earlier. I encourage everyone to study this because there are corneas that were not made public after that meeting but are excellent and informative. The case came back to the State Department, which is this matter when the joint EEA committee had agreed. We discussed the matter, as I mentioned, and had guests, and questions arose, including those. Excited questions about why Iceland should want to be involved with the EU when it comes to greenhouse gas emissions, of course, in view of the great speciality available to Iceland in these areas where there are 80% of all energy uses renewablely and most greenhouse gas emissions are due to national implementation. Iceland has also greatly reduced emissions, e.g. with a house warming here due to a geothermal, but this reduction in emissions took place in Iceland long before the reference years are stated in these integrated operations. The beginning year of the UN Climate Convention and Kyoto is 1990. It may not be an accident that in that year, the reference year, shortly after the fall of the Wall, is a significant reduction in emissions of the Eastern European Union after this period. However, the EU target year is 2005 and referred to as ETS commercially. According to State Department, the European Union aims to communicate with 2005 because it is that year, indeed, a year later, that ETS began his march. Still, according to the 1990 State Department's response, a specific basis for the year. In 2008, Iceland's Gjarn is referred to as a voluntary participation in the ETS system, with about 40% of Iceland's emissions falling below that. So it's funky, flyy, that sort of thing. Iceland voluntarily participated in this system, so it is reasonable to ask why Iceland has been involved in this system but has not taken on a rather general commitment to emissions compared to total Iceland's emissions in view of the total emissions of some 15 million tons of carbon dioxide, of which the wetlands are 9 million tons. Actually, it's not the emissions that are involved in this intercom but only a small portion of the total 3 million tons, since the EU has invented some kind of accounting that does not seem to care to deal with real emissions but only part of the real emissions, so-called accounting emissions. Thus, the commitment to Iceland remains to reduce emissions by 0.25% per year between 2005 and 2030. Of course, the next question must be, What measures will reduce this emissions by 0.25% per year? According to my knowledge, there is not much spells, not much commandment and bans, which can be justified with so limited results on only 0.25% of emissions contractions. What are the consequences of these commitments in Icelandic and Icelandic households? e.g. Even if they are using renewable energy sources such as this country, are they really going to need to do in the future? These are questions that arise, and I think it would be good for them to keep behind their ear in discussions about these materials and the introductions that follow this pattern in book 31. We have also seen in the past that the European Union's climate-related actions, decisions in the past few years, have actually proved to be worse than not. I can mention it, for example. The European Union's focus on diesel cars at the expense of fuel cars. I think everyone agrees today that it was delirium. This is a ide that was introduced to Iceland, is still a nation, and has forced many of the car owners into more polluted vehicles. Another example is the combination of biofuels to conventional fuels, which have cost enormously more than 2 billion a year, which I think may be up to 4 billion this year. It is the cost of less income because of subsidies to the foreign manufacturers of these substances, brought in to the country, except the negative effects this has had on nature and food prices. We also look at a surprising system of responsibilities that seem to enable companies to tell wrong about the origin of energy. There's no denying that. There are countless European states where a large proportion of renewable energy from the Union is derived from burning on biomass, such as forest products. I would like to finally mention, in comparison with this commitment in Iceland to draw up emissions of less than 1 million tons of carbon dioxide, the annual savings of emissions already obtained in Iceland during the production of falling water and pollution in the country during the 1960s and 1970s, the recession rate is estimated to be less than 20 million tons, the decrease in emissions already collapsed in Iceland, long before 1990, the reference year on which men build. These are the figures the Committee has received from the Environment Ministry based on numbers from the Power Institute. Another comparison that may also be interesting, I find it at least, is that by the release of carbon dioxide into the electricity accounts in this country on the sale of responsibilities it seems that selling the source range of nine million tons of carbon dioxide energy users. I realize, and there's a lot of talk here, that these are two separate systems, i.e. The emissions and source responsibilities. The very question that arises when it is pointed out is: Why is it a separate system? If people are really interested in reducing real emissions, why are these systems separated? There's a discussion I hope to make up for the next semester in a good conversation with Landing and those selling these certificates. In the lake, the European Union's directive on renewable energy sources and incentives to use renewable energy sources which, if introduced in Iceland, should place the obligation in Iceland and the Icelandic enterprise to have published a certificate of the origin of energy. Today it is not obligatory for an enterprise to pronounce such certificates, but in the European Union it has been set up a directive requiring such obligation and may be suitable for those in the European Union who have closed the system of electrical energy, where there is a wide range of energy. Icelanders who are not involved in that closed system must ask themselves, " What game are we playing with this? ' I'm supposed to be independent of the disposal systems. The question is why. I'm not going to have any further comments on the opinion of the committee as such. As I mentioned at the outset, there are many regulations introduced there and I expect the environmental and transport committees to review all of them. Some of these will call for further legal adjustments that will be involved here. Then I would like to encourage a helpful and perplexing discussion of the changes in law that many of us have to make and look forward to being dramatic changes. Finally, I would like to mention that this is on the subject. 1055 and then Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Brontísdótttir, Logi Einar Einarsson, Resak Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bjöillflfóttir, Þótttir K. Gunnarsdóttir, and Ólafur Ísleifsson, with a warning, were able to print it here for the benefit as well as the one present.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u49	Mr. President. Happily, much of the congregational work being done here will be handled in a relatively broad measure by most categories. That was the case. It was quite simple and well prepared. Hv. A woman who spoke before and who was chairman of the Committee had a different view, but the opinion of the committee as it is printed is what the committee agreed on. I have to admit, I lost my tone of speech. A senator, who went far beyond the subject of the committee's opinion. I ask if there is a reasonable basis for a prominent authority in addition to the commission to make personal deliberation and to be far away from the opinion. Would it not have been more convenient for her to give them a talk and to explain her viewpoints? We may be witnessing some kind of domestic issue between the members of the board, and I'm sure that agents of the left green and progressive will not share the vision presented here. Actually, I expect that's what I'm going to do. Also, members of the Independence Party, members of the Committee, do not. One must ask: " Do events such as we have seen fit for the continued work of the committee and whether the independent party will not have to decide if it is? ' A senator will speak for the party's authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for the talk, though, that was materially demeaning and may not be expecting anything other than the fact that the form is the only thing to do. If there's any box that can be checked, you'd like to do it. This may not be the case unless the box indicates that an issue is settled. Nothing happened with material coverage. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's objection to the fact that I was here was material. All of this is just statistics based on responses from the Ministry of State, the Environment and Resource Ministry and the Power Institute, and the historical facts of cooperation. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament whether the matter is generally considered to be a matter of detractation or damage to any material debate in this hall, even though it comes from a foreign - language committee, which has often taken part in the process of being a stamped on a form of opportunity from the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u51	Mr. President. In fact, I don't want to go for it either way. A senator believes that I am poor in material and that I keep myself in shape. In this case, however, that is important. This is the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, as well as the head of the committee, and it should be fully aware of the discussions that have taken place and on this issue on the committee. It should then be made clear here that the committee's article presented by the chairman of the Committee was much more in line with the above talk, but it did not work out. Because the State Department is a stamp, I dismiss it. This matter has been discussed in a significant way. We also enjoy receiving opinions from other committees, which are particularly designed to deal with individual factors, e.g. It's the introduction. This is a very simple matter. We are fulfilling a responsibility that we have already carried out, and we have concluded a great deal of the committee, with the exception of two members of the council who agreed on the committee but before it was considered more correct to have the devices printed and in a way that appeared. That would have been a lot more natural. A woman who is a member of the Parliament is following a talk explaining her personal opinion but not on behalf of the committee in the way she did.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u52	A respectable president. It is a big misunderstanding that I have been giving special talks on behalf of the committee in this talk. I'm retrieving the facts and the discussion that has taken place at the council. That would've been a great deal of luck. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson, who has been serving on the Foreign Affairs Committee longer than I, to make it known to the committee and to highlight the points the committee received at their joint meeting with an environmental committee a year ago, where this matter was discussed materially but did not achieve any way in the financial and judicial handling of this matter. It was by chance that I put my eyes into the second fine corneal presentation that the committee had received a year ago. I cannot imagine for what reason and why, on the basis of such a presentation, should not be made public information for this matter in order to provide a basis for a objective discussion on these matters, which is not nearly complete. I don't understand why. A senator should be so excited about it. It is true that I would have considered it normal and preferable to have a more thorough discussion of the subject at a committee party on this point. In fact, I think it applies to a very large number of committees, especially from the Foreign Affairs Committee, but not all of them. I can agree that there is no reason to include a complex review or a list of all the types that are being introduced, but in a very number of matters, they can be very well discussed by the Committee and in the Committee on the topic of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u53	Mr. President. I'm not sharp at anything. I simply want to keep it in order that this was no position to recommend for me. Hv. At the end of her talk, a senator himself said that she was going to compromise only the subject of the committee's opinion. By then, she had been speaking for 10◯12 minutes without any indication that the content of her talk was not thought to belong in the committee view. Much more of the committee made the decision to simplify it and not keep these items inside. She may disagree with that. A Christian woman can give a talk and explain it. I object, and I want to keep her from speaking on behalf of the others, at least. Many who sign this committee opinion. On the other hand, this is a remarkable day because it calls for the independence party, responsible for the appointment. A member of this committee suggests that she will become president, to determine whether the sect is so complete over the vision of the chairman of its council member. That's important. I'm aware, and I assure you that this does not represent the other two parties in the board, and this has been made clear in committee meetings. I must call for an explanation from the Chairman of the Independence Party on the matter. A senator speaks for his party.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u54	President wants a court order against what. A senator and others use traditional comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u55	A respectable president. First, I want to celebrate the completion of this matter, and we continue to have good luck as a nation to follow the European Union in action on climate change. The European Union has clearly discussed measures to reduce emissions, show that in recent years we have taken pride in them, and since then, along with our neighbors, we decided to follow them on these topics. On the other hand, I have to agree that there's a problem. paritaprevir The Sigríður of Andersen were somewhat peculiar in view of the fact that the committee's opinion is extremely clear and tight. It suggests that the council arrangement is accepted unchanged. It was obvious that the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee was not on that line and in reality did not agree with the direction taken by the committee. I guess we've had what we need. A senator agree on a vote or a discussion with the Committee on the matter, and he decides to consider giving an entirely different talk, which is part of the committee's opinion. I'm not going to have a lot of words about it, but I guess that's the kind of thing they draw out. It is the first time that you will witness the withdrawal of issues from the committee's chairman.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u56	President. Indiscriminately, lights walk around the world, denial of climate change, man - made catastrophe. Yet, the longest ones in it have found that it really doesn't work any longer. We're shooting down. We see worldwide that those who feel that they can find new ways. They say: Man - made warming is true, but it has been warming before. I was now reading the Icelandic stories, and this is what I'm talking about. How was Greenland? Or: Granted, it is the warmth of human beings, but the proposed action - let us wash down in every detail, forget about the little ones, attach the discussion to something that does not matter, hoping that sand can be placed on the wheel that must be fully converted if all of us who are living on the world's surface are able to reverse this trend. Therefore, I am particularly pleased with the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and the three members of the Board, the Left Animate, the Ministry, and the Independence Party, because the government, the government of Iceland, made the reasonable decision to go out to this case with the European Union and Norway instead of wave the National Solutions. We all see how well that went in the Kyoto case, and the experience should show us that we don't want to go there. Some learn from experience, but we decided to take our responsibility seriously. I am pleased with the government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir for that. I'm happy with the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister who worked to link us to Norway and the European Union. I'm happy with the highest. The minister of the Independence Party, Gudley of Guðlaug Þór Þórðarson, who proposed the matter discussed here. I am pleased with members of the left movement, the green supply, the forwarding party, and the Independence Party that gathered that these issues were being discussed here. I'm happy with this. This shows that there are those who make the greater part of the government convinced that neither the means nor the prepared excuses, nothing: yes, but what about this and what about that? To combat disaster, major measures must be taken. It's a good day.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u57	A respectable president. The climate is without question our greatest challenge. We're gonna let her down, including. enrolled in the Paris treaties, which was a huge step in its time. This assignment will be determined only by the international unity of the nations. Finally, after a great trial in Paris in 2015, they succeeded. In fact, the body of Congress proposal we're discussing here is confirmation that we're setting our objective into the EEA Convention. You're right about what you're doing. paritaprevir Andersen's victory that there is no traditional EEA type, which is made clear in the synonym. Yet, this is a very important matter. National environmental legislation is largely based on EU regulations and has largely been adopted in the EEA Convention. I think this case has got good publicity. It was our wish at the time to enter the treaty with the European Union. In view of the fact that we had already adopted a so-called ETS system, it would make it easier to keep it all under the EEA Convention. So I'm happy that we'll settle this case and confirm our vows in Iceland that we're going to do everything we can to live up to the goals set out in the Paris Treaty. In fact, we have set goals to go further. On the other hand, I can agree with the discussion that we should always discuss in detail the issues that come from the European Union. To me, there is no shortage of will, but the case we're taking over here with the Committee on State Affairs, and I sign it, is good, and should be welcomed. I encourage all of us to continue on the fine journey we have been on so far, excitedly waiting to see another version of the government's plan of action on climate change, as there we will set greater and stronger goals. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u58	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in nature protection law. The main element of the bill is the conversion and correction of the definition of the term 'official' to allow the definition to be the same as expected in the bill in April 2013. As the law's law says, a level of peace cannot be declared according to the peace-developed category ◯ if construction is present within a 5 km distance from a region, although it is not seen because of geographic conditions, e.g. mountain range. According to the above - mentioned bill, zones that would normally be peacefully declared uninhabited would be in at least one area. Five miles from construction. This would allow a period of non-inhabited peace that could not reach the above limits, e.g. if geographic conditions allowed. So it is essential that the definition of the term be adjusted. At the 2013 bill, it was decided that the definition of the term would be applied to a length of 46 C.E. The bill that deals with the peace-designing party, dealt with definitions. This shift usually led to the ◯ normally making it stand only in front of a description of the size of the area defined as non-inhabited but not in front of the distance boundary of the area. As stated earlier, the change this bill allows it to allow a peace-declaring area that meets all conditions that remain uninhabited in spite of the construction of buildings within five miles [5 km] of the region's limit. This change will have an individual basis for determining whether non-scheduled structures in the area within the distance will affect its classification in the respective peace categories. It will also have the potential to produce within a distance of less than 5 miles from the limit of the transport sector, provided it does not affect its protection. According to the Ministry Department, the bill will not result in a costly impact on government funds. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject and suggested that it be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u59	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on the Icelandic national capital, but the main element of the bill is how to handle the national capitals that Iceland has been assigned to use online as well as its cover-up service and document domains under them. Before I review the bill itself, I think it's time to draw attention to the fact that today there is no law on national capital. is or other national capital with direct appeal to Iceland. In view of this and the fact that most countries that we compare with us have established a domain law, Iceland has fallen back from other countries in terms of local legislation. With regard to the international development and importance of the network in modern society, there is good reason to set legal decisions on national capitals that have directed appeal to Iceland. In particular, this bill had a security look at its contract and was designed to set minimal rules to promote safety. Thus, the bill is less than the proposed primes in order to form the 139th and 140th legislation, on the same subject but could not be achieved. It should be noted that Swedish law on the same subject as that given to the President's permission I want to end up in Swedish:ol nationella topdomäner going to Sverige pånet. A respectable president. I think it's time to swerve key elements of the bill. Its chapter 1 explains its objectives, its values range, its domain governance, its terms and its personal protection. The objective of the bill is to contribute to the safe, economic, and efficient access to the Icelandic capital and to strengthen their relationship with Iceland by providing for its safe, efficient and efficient management. As noted, there is considerable emphasis on safety in the target terms, and security will be the main interests considered in the bill's contract. It is urgent that the access to the Icelandic capital is good, but it also means that the management is safe without the community being upset or Tata. The field of values is determined by the management of Iceland's national capitals. The bill does not cover general proportions, nor does the Icelandic government have anything to do with it. Iceland has been assigned the national capital. it is not excluded that more countries will be assigned to Iceland in the future. Il. section contains regulations for registration agencies, general authority, reporting of operations and the role of the registration agency. It is suggested that the operation of the registration agency be reported but not authorised, such as previous bills have been assumed. The announcement is far less burdensome than a permit, yet it ensures that the government's perspective. The requirements set for the work in this country can be considered burdensome, but some of them take into account the security issues, such as keeping the work in the country and preventing the preservation of rights and practices from being stored in a cloud or data plant abroad. The role of a registration agency is the role that the Internet in Iceland, ISNIC, has today. In III. section of the bill contains laws on the registration of domains, closed, lock and registration of the domains, police resources and rights and the duties of the rights. No changes in site registration rules have been provided for the current site registration procedures. The register is largely electronic and sets self-registered registration regulations. The minister will be able to set rules for rules that honor the rules of rules of rules but will not set the rules for registration, since there are somewhat fixed international rules for site registration. A respectable president. I'd like to say a few words specifically on regulations number III. section of the bill for resources such as closing the registered domain, dissertation, lock it, or place it in place. In the 10th. There are rules that are in accordance with ISNIC rules but that should be set in law. I call attention to the means of locking a site, which means that no domain can be moved between the courts. Resources this has become available and useful, e.g. when there is a case for the treatment of a consumer room, e.g. Based on business and market surveillance legislation, No. 57/2005. In 1 1. ... areassigned to the police. It is suggested that police be required, prior to a court order, to document the domain lid recorded under Icelandic national capital in certain cases, e.g. if the rights of the domain, his agent, or his service partner has close ties to organized violations, or uses the domain for such activities. They suggest that the police, prior to a court decision, place a hold on a registered domain, and apply it in the investigation of official cases and the collection of evidence. The above sources are very burdensome to the court and include extensive intervention. It is suggested, as mentioned, that courts are always being sought to use such instruments. Then it is important, more importantly, to appear here in connection with the rights and duties of the domains, that the rights of the court do not receive direct property on a site, but only indirect property rights, in particular what is called the personal rights of the domain. IV. section of the bill contains principles, such as surveillance, daylight, the national capital in times of war, and the impending terrorist attack and professional advice. The provision of temporary I is suggested that the state funds be premiumed to all parts of the Internet in Iceland, ISNIC. This law is designed primarily to ensure that the Society will not be released from Icelandic jurisdiction, although it is assumed that the state's budget can also be used as a premium if it is intended to buy an object in INSIC. According to the bill, a premium allows a government fund to enter an offer made in the Society. However, government funds are not obliged to use the rights. It should be noted that in the countries we compare with us, registration agencies are often run as nonprofit automatons. A respectable president. I have now made clear the general subject of the bill and suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u60	A respectable president. It's very exciting that this matter is under consideration by the Generals. I can't say that there's a lot of monopoly about it amongst those who are best familiar with technology, so I have to say, as it is, that ISNIC's position is strange, that it's a private person on the market that simply controls it. I guess people in general assume that... IS Iceland in the sense of state, that the state is on its behalf. On the other hand, I pondered outlets, especially 1 1. This is about closing and keeping the registered domains in place. The B- team says that prior court order may be required by the police to insist on a registration centre at the site and in the b- force says: "If a site is used to share illegal material or material that encourages criminal action in the general penalties and related offenses, prison punishment can be carried out as long as two years or more. " This is an intervention that allows people on the Internet to express themselves in some way, as it says here that a fraction of the study can become a prison punishment, i.e. such behavior is encouraged. In the general law of penalties, much is forbidden, and more than the one standing here would want, including publicly reproaching a nation, or foreign state, its highest ruler, its ruler, its flag, or otherwise recognized the national flag of ◯ as an example. This is a prison term for up to two years. It may be more reasonable to have these criteria higher, i.e. Not two years incarceration, but something more? I don't have time to go out in other articles, and I think this one works well because it's like that. It's against Trump. It would be tempting to do so in this necklace, since you cannot hold an account for what you say. [[The president calls.]] I think it's very important to insult Trump, it's important to insult some foreign heads, and I don't feel like closing sites because someone on the Internet does.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u61	A respectable president. For the first cheeky wag. The senator of the company that runs this registration agency in Iceland is right, there are a few people involved. The state and related persons contribute to a total of 23.8% of the enterprise's stocks. My opinion is that it's both natural and reasonable for an enterprise that is in public interest rather than private property. It is very important to be sure that the work will be done in Icelandic jurisdiction when just discussed. Is, just because of obvious mental connections. It can be noted that in Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, similar companies are fired as automatons, even without profit, which I think are also interesting shapes. It was not selected, and this bill is a little concerned about what needs to be done. Here's an emphasis on safety. That's right. That's right. That's right. A senator in exceptional cases, 10th and 11. c., it may be a very burdensome intervention of the enterprise. Therefore, it is always that prior to a court order, and I can't imagine that it was authorized to lock, lock, or something like that on the basis of minor offenses, since it had to be considered in court before. This is not the decision of those seeking it; they must be judged in such a way. It may be accepted in general courts if there is a disagreement on such issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u62	A respectable president. Unfortunately, it is far from possible for courts to have decided on a law of general penalties involving a degree of expression freedom in some undisputed way. For example, on 233rd streg. a on so - called hate propaganda has been the result of the Supreme Court, even the law - taught people, because there is so much personal guidelines on what is shocking and how emotions are aroused. Then I'm not talking about calling on someone to hurt him, not terrorist propaganda or anything like that, just something that's going to get really bad at someone's side, and as a result, it's judged as a violation of the law. In fact, no wonder, in view of the wording of the Law! It is such a challenge to judge by it. Pornography is banned in Iceland, and as I get next, we're one of the so-called Western democracies where it's still banned, probably because we're so small and the little ones that there's no real porn business here that we know about, and as a result, no pressure is supposed to eliminate the sheer nonsense from having it. Although it is only six months incarcerated, it is also spoken of illegally, and I expect pornography to be illegal in Iceland. Then I'd like to mention again the 95th parr. a general penal law that turns to heads of state. It's good and good. A minister thinks in a good way that he has some kind joke. I'm not talking about decent jokes. Honest and reasonable criticism of people like Donald Trump and other world leaders is not kind, it's not trivial, it's very hard. How rude it must have been to insult the ruler of that government, and it has two years of imprisonment! We can't begin to legalize general penalties just in my opinion here and now in those answers, but I wonder if this prison point could not be higher, e.g. three or four years over two. [[The president calls.]] Is this not just too little to justify this registration?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u63	A respectable president. Regarding the final and, in part, a subject on the subject of discussion. I think a member of the council would be quite impressed that this is being discussed in the committee, and all these views are taken out and torn, weighed, and evaluated. Because of it. A senator has made a point of saying that these rules may be burdensome to a number of things that he feels may be acceptable to turn into public penalties. A senator does not feel that there is a need for a legal device to cope with the most serious wrongdoing in the world. We're trying to put a safety point on that, just to deal with terrorism or organized crime that I think we all want to deal with. There are speculations that would arise as well as those who advocate freedom - I know why. A senator is a bit on the line to accept my law and my rules - my belief is that there is no freedom without responsibility and that in this responsibility there is very often the need to set some rules to deal with the most serious things and then to rely on courts, which are the third support of our Constitution, certainly operate independently, and we don't have control, trusting that they are examples of reasonableness and by the law we set. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u64	A respectable president. We're here to discuss the most interesting matters from the highest. European Environment Agency for the European Environment Agency (UNEP) and the European Commission for the European Environment Agency (EEC) and the European Commission for the European Commission. Now in 2020, there has been an ongoing discussion of this subject among those I'm going to call computer nerds for a long time. Thus, there is a case with interest that there is a fine company named ISNIC and is responsible for the registration of the site. Is in Iceland. It's a business like any other, and the state has something to do with it. I understand the story is that in the past it was part of the government, but the registration rights were involved in some kind of privatization. There's a lot of good things to say about this bill. I have to say, this has been a bit controversial over the years among those who know about technology. On the other hand, many people, including those listed here, feel that it is not necessarily normal for a private company to take this record on. Is-les, especially because no one else can do it at the time. In general, I believe that the personal enterprise belongs where competition is possible and where it is not possible, with some exception. There is no religion, but the simple view that when the competition is no active influence is not as good as they have to do in order for me to have great faith in the market vision. The market view is based on certain objects, and among them there is a competition that is obviously not possible if one person in the market has the authority over it. This does not mean that any law is intelligent or reasonable. There was a debate about putting a law like that some years ago of the time. Minister of the Interior, Ögmundur, son of Jónasson. I remember that bill, I didn't like it back then, and I asked myself what problems people were trying to solve. Of course, they were trying to solve even more problems than those there was. The reasons underlying this bill are outlined in the bill's report and briefly weigh that security, i.e. that it is possible for the state to react, e.g. if terrorist propaganda is spread or to close roads that may have to be done for national security reasons. This bill, however, is, to the most extent milder than what was proposed at the time, which, in my opinion, was a bit lost in trying to control everything. This is often the case when authorities want to control something that has been in the hands of a private driver until the result of the new behavior, the intervention is new in historical context, and there is a tendency to want to control a little more than there may be a need for security, just in case the government might ever want to forbid one or a shepherd another. I don't see much of this bill, but there's only one thing that has to do with general penalties and a measure of control that I feel is the identifying mark of Icelandic legislation in general. That's 1 1 1. This is about closing and keeping the registered domains in place. That law includes the ability of police to demand a court order to register, such as ISNIC, the lid of a site registered under Icelandic national capital in the following cases, as it says, and so are two letters. It's the "B" team I want to talk about. I'll still mention the a-party to bring it all along. It states a word of truth: ▪ If the right of a domain, his agent, or his service partner has close ties to organized wrongdoing, or uses the site in behalf of that activity, as defined in the general penal law of penalties. All right, I have nothing to do with it, but then the b-joint comes. I don't know what it has to do with putting bad things into the b-party these days, but in the b-ahead of this bill says, by permission of presidents: ▪ If a site is used to share illegal material or material that encourages penalistic punishment in general penalties and alleged offenses, prison punishment may be up to two years or more. I'll put a question mark on both sides of this law. The first item is the term "unorthodox material. " There are now illegalities in Iceland that are not illegal elsewhere, at least not in the countries we compare with. There we have a liberal democracy. One of the bans in Iceland is not banned in Norway, Sweden, Finland, France, Italy, Germany, and not even in Britain is pornography. For some reason I'm just going out, porn is still banned in Iceland. It's a conversational subject, I've studied it several times during the conference, a conversational conversation that people feel uncomfortable about, and I don't like to talk about, probably because sex and sexual behavior are a very personal subject that everyone must have some kind of blame they don't have to talk about too openly. I understand that well, and in my own case exactly the same, but we're adults and we're in the Generals, and we need to be able to talk very openly about what we've decided at the high Council that we're going to ban, especially when it's against freedom of expression. Before anyone says porn has nothing to do with expression, I'm just saying, Bull, I guess that's what it's all about. It's absurd to say anything else. If it's forbidden to publish something, it's about freedom of expression. Even if you say there are legitimate restrictions on freedom of expression, it has to be discussed in that context. It's inevitable. I'm going to claim that a nation that is still under the ban on pornography is not growing up when it comes to freedom of expression. It's not getting older when it comes to freedom of expression. The reason we're still under ban here, I think we're a very small nation, and as far as we know, there's no porn industry here. There are not many people who are making pornography - what we know. I'm saying that with them in advance, it may well be that there's a lot going on and we don't know it. But at least there is no pressure on it, there is no Larry Flynt here to try to further the law, to create pornography, to be arrested, to stand before courts, to clear out all the situations that are inevitable, and therefore to show people how ridiculous it is to use the law against pornography. Thus, we will never face this pressure, and as a result, we will never have to live up to this ridiculous prohibition in our homes here. However, this is a fundamental step, not because pornography is important in itself. There is nothing important to be allowed to publish or distribute pornography in Iceland in itself, end up feeling the Internet as everyone knows what will - and more people know than they want. However, this has an effect on such legislation. This has an effect on such legislation as police sources to listen to. It almost crashed into the house, but thanks to the Pirates, the police could listen to someone on the ground of 210 gr. the law of the law of the law against pornography. It's dangerous, respectable president, because when one looks at pornography online, another is spreading it. This could have been a disaster because whether we like it or not, whether we want it or not, people watch pornography, a lot of living people watching pornography. That is the case, and we cannot allow ourselves here to make laws that upset the rights of those people. We can't do that, but we almost did. Now I don't have the time to talk, I wanted to talk about something other than pornography in this speech, and I'm going to make it work here. But I want to know that here I am merely talking about publishing illegal material. The Prohibition involved only six months in prison, a very funny thing to say out loud, a respectable president. On the other hand, a substance that encourages criminal conduct involving general penalties and alleged offenses may be involved in prison punishment for up to two years or more. All right, you may find it wise to have someone like that in there. On the other hand, I suggest that it is all too low a reference to an alleged offense that may be punished for up to two years or more because there are things in general penalties that people in my opinion need to express and that need to be able to encourage other people to express that are against the general penal law for the same reason that I mentioned earlier, that Iceland has not already grown when it comes to expressing freedom of expression. In fact, only the description can be complicated when it comes to the next thing I want to talk about, which is 95th par. a general penal law. It includes public insults by a foreign nation or by a foreign state, its chief Ruler, its ruler, its flag, its national flag, its flag, the flag of the United Nations, or the flag of the Council of Europe, to be found guilty or imprisoned for as long as two years. If the cause is high, the violation of a prison is up to six years. I have taken several tangos of this law on committees and on various discussions. It has been found that some of these provisions may have to be there to meet international agreements. Okay, but now we are, for example. So unfortunate of the most powerful man on earth, Donald Trump, is the president of the United States, a terrible one. In the fare that his presidency has often been very important, not just that it should be permitted, but very important, to reproach his doing and that man. How important it is when such harsh ones come to the point that they are openly and honestly told! As far as I can see, there's a contradiction with this law. I've broken this law. I did it on purpose, and I put it on Twitter, not even in this pontta, and urge others here to do the same, to insult that foreign ruler. It's very important. The fundamental issue of expression is the ability to insult, taunt, and demean, making fun of, in a wicked way, that hurts princes and authorities everywhere and always. It's my attitude and it's heard here and beyond. Even if we didn't want to go that far, even if we had some decent President of the United States, we can't put people in a position that would have to be extremely careful what it says about the authorities in general because of the fear that their domain will be closed. I don't want it to be like that. Here's the prison ram for two years. I don't have much time left, so I'm gonna wind up in the last thing I want to mention in this relationship, but that's 233. gr. a general penalties dealing with hatred propaganda. I personally agree that there is some law on hatred propaganda, but it really matters how it is implemented and what it contains. What I read from the Supreme Court court has proved to be very difficult today. Some years ago, three comments were given to the Supreme Court to determine whether they were in violation of the law. I remember that one of them was convicted, and the other two was acquitted or vice versa. If you read the recommendation in a random order, I assure you, it is absolutely impossible for the civilian to understand the comments of the article and of what is not to be said. It is the danger of such a robe when it is not clear enough and when it is not based on some fear - inspiring important prince. The prohibition against threatening or endangering the safety of others is natural because people have the right to be safe. There is right to rights, rights to equality, rights to privacy, fair trials, and so forth. It has property rights and various rights. The expression must not be used to violate the rights. But it is not the approach we make when it comes to Iceland's hatred of propaganda and not the stigma. Then, suddenly, we've gone into some evaluation of a line that no one has ever been able to define where is, especially the Supreme Court, if recent judgments are to be made. It is always the question of what it makes you feel, whether someone is offended enough, whether anyone is hurt enough, whether anyone can just take things hard enough to allow another to be guilty of punishment. That position, a respectable president, is bad. Like I'm saying, I'm all for a hate speech but I think it needs to be clearer. It must be based on some rights being protected by others, not just feelings that people can somehow determine how sensitive they are. To complete this criticism of that law, I suggest that in the 1 1 1 stk. if the prison target goes up from two years to something more, three years would already be better, three or four years, so to speak. It would take away the concern I have because this law has given authority to the authorities excessively to take away the land mines on the basis of this law. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, but I have no more time to discuss this at this point, a respectable president, but I will return to 2. if I can at that time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u65	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 27/2020, which measures the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council (EU) 2015/2436, that the Member States' legislation on the logo will be entered into the EEA Convention. The Directive contains several new recommendations, both in agreement with EU Member States and the EEA/EFTA Member States on registration, protest, use and the protection time of product labels, but also a more detailed measure on the related rights, i.e. For example, your partner, responsibility and quality label, plans for your birthday, and herbal names. Then there is an issue that should be handled for more details than before. One of the main changes that result from the decree is that the requirement for a brand to be a even more visible symbol is to be removed. Instead, a brand is expected to be any kind of symbol that could distinguish a person's product and services from one person's own or similar products and services, and it can be identified in a product file in a way that can be clearly and accurately identified to what the exclusive rights are. The directive also adds general registration terms. Then the directive states that the product and service markings need to be clearly defined. It is necessary to review laws on logos, No. 45/1997, and fitting partner marks, No. 155/2002, due to the change. Workhawk and innovation Ministry plan to submit a bill for a change in the law of brands and to pass laws about partnership signals into a law on brands. I propose, my honored President, after this discussion is followed by this suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u66	A respectable president. This body of Congress offers a search for a warrant from the Generals to confirm for Iceland on behalf of two decisions made by the joint EEA committee. On one hand, it is the decision of the joint EEA Committee No. 237/2019 which is included in the EEA Convention the seven Commission Regulations as listed in the first category of the Parliamentary Recontraction Directive. However, this decision is made by the European Commission on the basis of a decision. The European Parliament and Council Directive (EU) 305/2019 of December 12, 2017 of the change in Directive 2014/599/ESB in terms of the reasonable level of insured debts in a court order of treatment due to inecurities. The regulations set out in the EEA Convention by Decision No. 237/2019 are all secondary types of Directive 2014/59/EU which set the restoration and delivery frameworks for credit institutions and stock markets, BRRD. This directive was adopted in the EEA Convention by decision of the European Commission No. 21/2018. The first phase of the decree was created by law No. 54/2018, which changed the financial law, No. 161/2002. Then the bill has to legalize the loan companies and stock companies. 426, 361st matter, have been submitted to the current legislation committee for the induction of the principle of the directive. Since the directive has not yet been implemented as a whole in this country, the induction of the secondary types is not improved and the decision was therefore 237/2019 made on a administrative notice of the European Union on part of the EU. In addition to the Regulation, further regulations on reforms, submissions and conversions of capital gains are set out, methodology of reimbursement in the so-called return fund, which is a special funding programme, and methodology for calculating a new requirement for the composition of your own budget, called minimum budget and a suitable commitment. The directive entered into the EEA Convention on Decision 305/2019 stipulations a series of rights perks for non-required treatments. The directive changes the regulations of 108.g. in the Directive 2014/59/EU, which stipulates the variable level of rights required on the basis of non-ractic measures, and suggests improvements in this article. In addition, the directive alters the definition of debt and suggests rules on the different levels of irresponsible commitments to non-profit therapy, which takes into account whether commitment is due to a debt that meets the specified criteria. I propose, my honored President, after this discussion is followed by this suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u67	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 259/2019. It is recommended that the EU contract be included in the Commission Regulation and Council Regulation (EU) No 37/2010: 596/2014 of 16 April 2014 for the marketing authorisation and deletion of the Council Directive 2003/6/EC and the Commission Directive 2003/124/EC, 2003/125/EC and 2004/72/EC. The current Regulation is called the MAR and solvents of the above directive on the same topic introduced in Icelandic correctly by the XIV SmPC. section No. 108/2007, stock trade. The objective of this Regulation is to strengthen the guidelines for marketing fraud and the handling of inside-house information and establish a more consistent rulework. Marketing fraud damages financial markets and public confidence in stock markets. Therefore, it is important to ensure that the marketing authorisation rules in the EEA are consistent and clear. The implementation of the Regulation here requires changes in the terms of stock trade, No. 108/2007, particularly in the section on the management of internal information, internal and surveillance trades, and the bill will be employed in the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. I propose, my honored President, after this discussion is followed by this suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u68	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 311/2019, which is included in the EEA Convention on Council Regulation and Council Regulation (EU) 2018/302 of February 28, 2018, of the measures for the non-conformable geographic boundaries and other discrimination based on the nationalities of customers, where they live or where they have confirmed in the internal market, and on the conversion of regulations (EC) 2006/2004 and (EU) 2017/2394 and Directive 2009/22/EEC. The Commission is aimed at ensuring the equality of buyers in the global market of the EEA regardless of nationalities, habitats, or stability. Its main initiative is to ensure consumer rights, but it also applies to the buyer which can fall under the scope of the Regulation to the extent that the relevant legislation is the users of the product or services purchased. The rules apply only to cross-border business, regardless of the circumstances in which to buy. This Regulation includes: It should be noted that it is generally forbidden to shut down or limit the access of buyers to the websites of seals with reference to ethnicity, residence, or determination of buyers. A Member State must also be designated as a national competent authority to monitor the implementation of the Regulation. In this country, the Neytends Lab will be a designated patrol officer. I suggest, a respectable president, after this discussion, this proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u69	A respectable president. This body of Congress offers a search for a warrant from the Generals to confirm for Iceland on behalf of two decisions made by the joint EEA committee. On one hand, it is the decision of the joint EEA Committee No. 288/2019 which is included in the EEA Convention on Directive 2001/83/EC, Regulation No. 178/2002 and Regulation (EC) No 37/2010: 1223/2009 and the deletion of the Council Directive 90/385/E and 93/42/EEC. However, it is decided by 301/2019, which is included in the EEA Convention Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council (EU) 2017/746 from 5 April 2017 on the diagnostic devices in a bottle and on the implementation of Directive 98/79/EC and that the decision of the European Commission for the 2010/227/EU is adopted in the EEA Convention. Protocol No. 2017/745 on medical devices and the 2017/746, on the diagnostic medical device in the bottle, is aimed at ensuring that the quality and safety of medical equipment on the market will be further increased with the safety and interest of patients and other users. A basic review of the current Community rules was needed to establish a reliable and transparent rule frame that ensures high safety levels and strong health protection as well as support for innovation. In accordance with experience, this Regulation provides additional requirements and requirements for the quality and safety of medical equipment to increase the safety of their users. Increased requirements for monitoring and follow-up of commercial medical devices, as well as for clinical studies on therapeutic devices, including data quality and access to data are provided for their manufacturers. A specific authentication system has been established by the Regulation in order to ensure the traceability of the medical device provided by the manufacturer. This is done even. to prevent counterfeit devices, but also to ensure the traceability of an device and to ensure rapid and reliable internalization of a defective device. A health minister intends to submit at present a bill for new medical instruments, which includes the introduction to the Regulation. I propose, my honored President, after this discussion is followed by this suggestion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u70	A respectable president. As we know, 18 months of the U.S. National Association of Human Rights ended at the end of the last year. Iceland has never taken place in the Council of Human Rights, and in fact, it has never been allowed to sit in the council until the summer of 2018. This was achieved by a group of Western residents in Iceland, so on July 13, 2018, we were on our own. We had months and years before our work increased as an audience and the one standing here had even. become the first U.S. Secretary of Foreign Affairs to attend the Council of Human Rights and deliver a address there in February 2017. Of course, the election of Iceland was a turning point. This is one of the most important tasks entrusted to the Icelandic foreign service. In this context, Iceland was the largest government approved by the United Nations organization in the United Nations. As a result, it was important not only for Iceland but also in general to demonstrate the potential of smaller countries to solve such projects. It is important that the Council of Human Rights not only be bigger and more powerful but also reflect the United Nations as a whole and consider all the matters that must be discussed, not just the ones that are considered to be of particular importance. A respectable president. The Human Rights Council is an important platform for discussion about the state of human rights in the world, and it can be said to be reflected from time to time in international winds. At present, it is commonly said that it is a support of the human rights system and, indeed, of all international cooperation. Then those members of the United Nations who want to protect the system must be ready to shoulder responsibility and speak for international cooperation. We agreed on it when we prepared our session at the Council of Human Rights that Iceland would show that it would be ready to take responsibility and take the initiative, thus adding scales to human rights and as a loyal advocate of the global system. During the session Iceland took the initiative in various ways, so it was noticed. In March 2019, we were led by a joint declaration of 36 states on the state of human rights in Saudi Arabia, a turning point. Saudi Arabia had never previously experienced the common criticism of a number of states in the council in a comparable way, although there was good reason. The murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi in the autumn had caused anxiety in many parts of the world, but it is sure that representatives of the government were behind it. For us, though, it was equally important to describe our anxiety and dissatisfaction with the imprisonment of a number of people, especially women, who have done nothing but speak for human rights in the land. We have seen evidence that criticism and public coverage of it have affected the progress of the government in Saudi Arabia. Then there is work to be done. Iceland also had the leadership of a conclusion regarding the situation of human rights in the Philippines, where alleged government executions of thousands of people without trial have caused concern. On the basis of the conclusion, we are expected to receive a report from the United Nations Office of Human Rights for the United Nations for some of the time. Unauthorized governments should not have to fear such a report and should cooperate, which the Philippines authorities have not done. On the contrary, the exaggerated response of the government in the Philippines brought considerable attention, indicating that local authorities felt that they had a good cause to defend themselves. We also put equality first, including in form of a conclusion on the equal pay of men and women who were agreed to agree and who had joined by 70 states. The United Nations General Assembly went on to agree that September 18 will continue to be dedicated to the equal wages of men and women. Furthermore, we put much emphasis on the rights of queer people, but they are in many places under attack to attend in the world and are working there. Finally, we changed our mind. Human rights Council is an important site for discussion of human rights, but of course it is not perfect, as are other human works, and we tried to have a positive effect on them, with some results. As noted in the report, we did so against changes that increase the effectiveness and effectiveness of the Council. When all of this is taken together, I think we can say that what we shared in our work and being there was going on. I think the basis for this is that there has been a good solid solidarity. In public polls, we see that about 80% of our presence there and over 70% believe that we are more likely to have a good effect on the position of human rights by our advancement. More important, there was a solidarity here at the council, both in a moment. A foreign - business committee and members of Congress, which made it possible for us to take firm action in matters that we agree on. I think it's very important to review these matters. This report was published in which our experiences and experiences of being included in the Council are summarised, as well as the comments of the members who have discussed our presence. At least for a long time there was more coverage of it elsewhere than in Iceland what we were doing. It is safe to say that the general rule was, and it was very common, that people were completing words of praise during our march. That is why we are here to discuss these matters, and I look forward to sharing in this discussion. Of course, it is up to us to discuss it and to evaluate it, and we need to decide what will be left with us when it comes to the Council of Human Rights. I have declared it to the members who have spoken to us, who are numerous, both human rights and the countries we compare with, that we will continue to operate in the Council of Human Rights, as we have indeed been encouraged, especially by these same bodies. But then, when that opportunity comes, we need to decide whether we should seek a continued session in the council. Of course, it will be after some years, so if we are going to do so, it is unlikely that the same party will be in the position they are in right now, and therefore it is important that they do so. But after all, we Icelanders can be proud because we are especially looked at when it comes to human rights. There's no dispute. No matter what standards they use, we come out of them well, and it's extremely important, and hopefully that will be the way it is for the future. I have considered it to be our privilege to live in a country where human rights are respected, to add our little weights to the scales to help improve human rights status in other parts of the world. I think this scene is ideal. There is no doubt in my mind that we have been successful and have been successful. I'm not one of those men who thinks us Icelanders can solve all the world's problems. I think that's completely unrealistic. It has been discussed many times, including in this hall, that we should deal with very big and difficult things out in the great world. I don't agree with these ideas. But despite the fact that some thought that we were too small to live up to this great responsibility, there is no doubt in my mind, there are all signs that would indicate that it was wrong. We were able to live up to it, and so we went forward. On the other hand, all of us depend on the rest of us, and it becomes interesting to listen to the discussion at which we are concerned. The senators who are here, and I think they come from all members of the council. What determines the future is whether we will maintain solidarity over what is being done in the council and whether we will continue to do so as we have so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u71	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for reviewing his report on the activities of Iceland at the UN Human Rights Council. What an interesting and satisfying experience this has brought us into this important worldwide work! I'd like to discuss two things with the highest. Minister. First of all, I want to refer to a talk as the highest. In fact, a minister held the Council of Human Rights on February 25th, saying, "I am a minister. " in the looser and perhaps rather inferior meaning of what it says that we had practified what we preached when it came to human rights. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to some opinions in this regard, i.e. Whether we are proding what we preach and are truly working in harmony with Iceland's main priorities, as they indicate on the foreign - language website of the Council of Government. That's where even the two of them come from. ... tothatthe main focus of foreign affairs in Iceland is to work on the rights of women and children and against all violence and discrimination against women and children. For this reason, I ask the highest. Ministers how it resists these main priorities of Iceland to refer refugees to Greece, as it stands to do, knowing that circumstances are completely unacceptable to children. How are we there practitioners of what we preach, like the Supreme One? A minister entered his speech for the Council of Human Rights? I also intended to mention that the Human Rights Council has recommended to us that we accept the constitution chosen by the Icelandic public to become the new constitution of the Icelanders and that we establish an independent human rights agency but neither the Constitution nor the human rights agency has been established during the reign of the Supreme Court. Minister from the time the Council of Human Rights issued. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How are we going to select what we preach in these three areas?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u72	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. There is no doubt in my mind that when it comes to human rights, we will set a good example. I've had over 250 double meetings, and I've never had a single party come to me and say we're not following a good example in human rights. Never. Whatever it is. A senator's statement here is not that it calls for the claim that we are not following a good example. Where it is. A member of the United States has seen the state of human rights in the world, and I find it surprising that it is setting things up in the way it is done here. What is it? A senator to say? That's what I'm talking about. A senator to say that if conditions were in other parts of the world as they are in Iceland, would that be extremely difficult when it comes to human rights? That's what I'm talking about. A senator hinting at that? A respectable president. This doesn't hold a few opinions. We can talk about individual matters, as specified here, and we should, and we will, but we have no way of putting things in a way that is inconsistencies between what we do at the court of Human Rights and where we live. So much is certain that if things were all around the world like Iceland when it comes to human rights, the world would be so much better than it is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u73	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister of the State will avoid giving the exact answer I have noticed when it comes to the point of what is going on in their home. Then they point to other countries that the situation is worse. It's a very classic rhythm in the discussion, when specific matters are involved in a particular state, as I went along with it. I asked about specific examples and how they harmonized with Iceland's foreign focus. There is evidence that others in the world are doing worse, so there is no reason to criticize how human rights are handled by governments in this world, when compared with others, we are quite good. Yes, indeed, I have experience in foreign work, and I know exactly this debate to avoid answering precise questions, pointing in some other direction, and thus trying to avoid answering. But that's enough. It is obvious that the answer will not be too much but rather reproach me. So I want to turn my song into a cross and ask the highest. A minister on another part of his speech to the United Nations Human Rights Council, there he mentioned discrimination against Israel at the United Nations Human Rights Council. I'm asking the highest. Minister: What does he mean by that? Does he not feel that the United Nations Human Rights Council takes seriously the fact that there has been an illegal occupation for many decades, with widespread rights violations, even war crimes, and other very serious violations of international rights? Is it Iceland's policy to speak to Israel in particular at the hands of the United Nations Human Rights Council? Or is the highest. Only Minister of Foreign Affairs on that view?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u74	A respectable president. In case of a moment. A senator would have read the talk I delivered if she had never asked that question. She would never have come up here and ask me if we were saying that we would be blessing violations of human rights, either in Israel or elsewhere, whether we were Israel's special spokesmen. Hv. A senator has not read my speech, that is perfectly obvious. I carefully reviewed what I think most would agree that it should, of course, be critical of the violations of human rights committed in Israel; of course, nothing is followed by that, not at all, as I discussed in the talk. Yet, this is not consistent with having a regular part, Israel, on a schedule according to what happens elsewhere. Israel's affairs can be taken into account, but there is no harmony, and this is not credible. That's what I'm talking about. A senator said that I was not answering, so I wasn't doing it. I made myself clear, whether or not. A senator stated that it was absurd to say that we were not setting a good example in human rights matters. It's absurd to say that. I mentioned that it would be easy to review the issues discussed here and all others, but to use them as an example of how we are not very close to human rights. I don't mind not to answer or point out someone else, I'm not. I'm just saying that it doesn't hold any conclusions. Senator. If there's a world of mind. Since this matter is not a matter that we are able to say that we are going ahead with a good example in human rights, we are not able to do so. A senator who was very mistaken.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u75	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers, and especially for this report, which is well put and interesting there, and thank you for this fine work. Although Iceland has become a member of most of the international institutions established since World War II, Iceland, unlike the northern nations, did not become an active member of the international community. Our unexpected opportunity to sit on the United Nations Human Rights Council was welcome, and the fine report under this discussion shows that the government's will was very effective in showing that the Council of Human Rights was full in spite of the least state taken in the council. I agree with this, and I believe that Iceland should always be a voice heard internationally. We have strong and maligned opportunities, in my view, when it comes to world peace. Not long ago, the secretary - general of the United Nations said that Iceland could have a major impact on the United Nations, where Iceland is often viewed as a peacemaker, as Iceland is the leading states in the realm of equality and human rights with trust. What an interesting comment that is for us today! We are to view these comments as an opportunity to make us more visible in the international field, visible in the United Nations field, and taking the initiative in international affairs. In particular, the director mentioned that Iceland uses confidence as an agreement. Trust is very important in international reconciliation and peace search. The fact that Iceland is a military country and a land without weapons strengthens our position in these waters. Iceland is an international pioneers on the fields of equality, rights of queer people, and geotherms as a sustainable solution to mankind's energy demand. The emphasis on equality is important, for there is both the ability and the ability to influence. The arrival of men to gender equality is a case taken by Iceland. The U.S. National Institutes of Résium and NATO have drawn some attention, and according to the State Department of State, Icelandic executives are among its major international spokesmen that men are fighting for the sex equal force and are successful. Then there is the United Nations School of Equal Opportunities, a fine example of Icelandic initiatives in the field of equality that have become international recognition. Iceland has been able to establish a special link with gender equality. At home, the world's attention has been aroused, and the nation's focus on the lawsuit is well - known among other countries. This connection should therefore strengthen Iceland's work for gender equality. When it comes to gay human rights, the support of the government is more in English than on a table. Although this country is one of the most progressive legislations in the world for queer people's rights, the government does not seem to take advantage of this national strength to create a special link to the affairs of gay international people in the same way that has been done in the case of gender equality. I believe Iceland can take much better advantage of the extraordinary opportunities we have in the Human Rights Council to focus particular spears on countries where violations against gay people are most serious. I believe that in the short term we were in the Human Rights Council, Iceland's conclusions against the Philippines were too much energy. Filipinos are not among the ten worst nations of the world when it comes to violations of human rights; indeed, they are not on the top of the 20 list. Iceland's decision did not receive the expected support and was barely approved. It is important to ensure extensive support in such matters before starting. On the list of ten worst nations, however, when it comes to human rights violations, there are countries that severely violate the rights of queer people, such as Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Yemen, Brunei, Iran, and Nigeria, which allow homosexuals to be stoned on the streets. In the neighboring Philippines, Malaysia, there is a 20 - year prison sentence to homosexuality and a whip. It is also worth considering that one of the 15 most dangerous countries in the world for homosexuals is Palestine, one of our partners in two - side development, a country that many Icelanders have a positive attitude toward, and we were the first Western State to accept as an independent country. In the list of the most dangerous countries in the world for homosexuals, Malawi is our principal member member of the developing community for many years. First, the list of the worst human rights violations of all time is Venezuela. We should have gone to that country because here are a lot of refugees from Venezuela. Mr. President. I have not seen much of the fact that the Icelandic government has criticized these countries when it comes to the human rights of gay people. There is the support of the Icelandic government for homosexuals more in word than on table. We are to be consistent when we take on an important role in international matters. We have every business at the Human Rights Council of Human Rights to my decision, and I believe that we should regularly seek a seat for it in exchange for the rest of the countries and in cooperation with them. And in this context, I also believe that Iceland is looking for a seat in the United Nations Security Council when that moment arrives in 12 years. What really matters in this is that the goals that are set out, what are desirable, and what are the goals, are in a broad political reconciliation. We are to make the most of our strengths and abilities in the areas where the need is greater.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech. However, I don't feel completely consistent with what he says with what we did in the Human Rights Council. One of our priorities was the struggle for the LGBTI people. It didn't go unnoticed, I thought it had been noticed. All the talks I've hosted, as well as our delegates are available, and I'm amazed. A senator to study them. I'm surprised I missed it. Senator, critical, e.g. now in the last round of Venezuela, which may be normal, there are many in the media. But that was even. what was specifically taken out of my speech and is not the first time I criticized the government in Venezuela. For the Philippines, by reason of the night. According to one U.S. senator, the conclusion was almost substantiated, so that the year is not further understood, the matter was what we asked the Philippines government to say. I think that's why. A senator I know of wanting to be consistent should consider why the Filipino government's response was in the way it turned out. That is what may have caused most anxiety. However, this is not so that we can resolve every issue or call attention to every subject everywhere. But what's wrong. A senator refers to us in particular. Since then, we have also highlighted the issues of human rights, and in fact, we have special policies on it, when it comes to developing cooperation, even though it does not directly relate to this matter, but we can discuss it as well. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I got it. I got it. To find out, a senator is right. A senator mentioned the lands listed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u77	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. It did not go unnoticed that there was certainly a reference to homosexual issues when we were on the Human Rights Council, and that is an excellent review on page 6. Thirty-four in the report. I believe, however, that this has not been done sufficiently in this regard because, as I mentioned in my speech, we have been able to make spiritual progress. I mentioned in this regard progressive legislation in Iceland, and since we're doing well at home, we should try to take advantage of it abroad when we have this unique opportunity to be on this advice. I made it so that we could use this opportunity better, especially with the countries I mentioned. While this is a sensitive case group, it is stated in the report, I can agree with it, but we are in cooperation with countries, we are in a two - sided development partnership with countries, which are considered very dangerous for homosexuals to visit, and it must make us wonder whether this aspect of the community is not proper, as I went over early in my speech, Palestine, Malawi, etc. These countries look up to us, and we're supposed to take advantage of this opportunity, and we're going to give it a lot to the point that this is something we stress that will be overcome. This means my emphasis on this. Thanks again to the highest. Minister for his history in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u78	A respectable president. As a matter of fact, just so you can think of, we put in the developing community special funds in the struggle for the rights of gay people who are in accordance with foreign policy. Hv. A senator, for example, went over it and named Venezuela, but we put 13 million in OHCHR, an institution of the United Nations, which particularly highlights LGBTI equality. And we asked for a report on the Philippines, that was as far as it was concerned. Hv. A senator referred to Palestine, and only recently a meeting was made with the ambassadors of Palestine, where the issues were at hand. A senator made a recording of the subject. Iceland is the state of which most recommendations are made, within the peer review referred to in the report on LGBTI. Iceland has most recommendations. We've put special emphasis on this terms period, and there's a special policy on it and a special report, on human rights matters in developing cooperation, that exact emphasis. A senator refers to him. So that's what it's all about. A senator mentioned we have. They may believe that we have been able to use this opportunity better than I have not heard them criticize, i.e. for this 18 months. What we heard when we came in was that people were worried that we were too small and this would be too short. But there is no one who talks about it anymore. I must say, a respectable president, this is the first time I've heard the criticism that we could have made better use of it. Of course, we can always do better. I'm not saying we've achieved perfection, either there or anywhere else. But I believe, a respectable president, that there is no doubt in Iceland's initiative when it comes, e.g. that the LGBTI people and they didn't miss anyone, so in fact, they've been particularly pleased by OutRight, which is an organization that has it as their own business. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u79	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister. I would like to state, however, that, in view of the short time we had to prepare our seat in the council, to place ourselves in the council that such have succeeded, and we as small countries in this council have been able to do quite well. I'd like to thank you for the good staff that was on our behalf there. How important it is that we can take care of this counsel with the goal of taking good care of it! But then it is a matter of political solidarity about the work to be done. I mentioned it here, like the highest. A minister entered, that there was considerable emphasis on the Philippines at the same time as the Philippines are not on the top 10 list of the worst countries of human rights violations, and indeed not on the top 20 list. V.E.G. Minister found with Saudi Arabia. It was very good, and I quite agree with that conclusion. It would be interesting to know if the highest. Ministers in these discussions have mentioned homosexual issues to the government of Saudi Arabia. What a need that would have been! It's a bit of a matter of man's starting to know that the issues of emphasis are limited. This is once so that when people are making a decision against something, against certain states, etc., they need very good planning, and it is very important that a wide cohesion exists among the nations in this regard. [[The president calls.]] That wasn't the case with the Philippines, that's just a fact. This may not be the main point of my speech, but it may be that we are intertwining the issues we are going to focus on and guide them with a broad solidarity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u80	Therefore, the president is directed to the council to respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u81	Mr. President. When Iceland was elected to the United Nations Human Rights Council, a foreign minister said: ▪ That position has a great responsibility, and it is important that we Icelanders stick together to take it. It seems quite true to me that the Icelandic foreign service has done quite well, shown and shouldered responsibility in this vital role entrusted to us by our friends. Our presence in the Council of Human Rights clearly shows that Iceland can play an important role and have a positive influence on international developments. We have seen dramatic changes in world conditions over the last few decades, in new driving forces, and in the spirit of power. Instead of the traditional times of the Cold War between East and West, the situation is much more complex and powerful than ever before. We look up in a growing line of extreme policy to the left and right around the world. Here and in Europe, only an increase in extremes and isolationism has been carried out, which is a major concern. I would like to take advantage of this discussion to highlight the importance of international cooperation, close international cooperation with those nations that share values and perspectives, but also the need to have a clean discussion with other countries that do not, and in the Human Rights Council, of course, there are many nations. In this excellent report, we can see that much has been accomplished in the Council. As a result, we were critical of the mismanagement of women's situation in Saudi Arabia, showing initiative in critical positions of human rights in the Philippines, making clear the conclusions of the Council of Human Rights on equal wages for men and women, and finding many other good things and options that concerned the disaster and human rights of queer people, to name something. But you can always do better than that, Mr. President. Of course, it was disappointing when Iceland was sitting by the deliberation resolution that international humanitarian and human rights laws should be applied to the occupied areas of Palestine and handed over to those who violate them. This will stir up as the International Assembly and the Icelandic nation declared support for Palestine as a sovereign and independent state over the border as they were in 1967. But that's enough. There are two especially that I would like to use this opportunity to discuss here today in connection with our session at the Council of Human Rights. On the one hand, it is foreign policy, especially in the field of human rights. On the other hand, the international releases that we have accepted in the fields of human rights are for refugees. This report points to the fact that Iceland has a global rights issue based on its emphasis on a 2007 policy document - notice - human rights in Icelandic foreign policy. When I read about this document, I realized that in many respects it is very good. However, I've noticed that it seems that we haven't updated our policy of human rights for nearly 13 years, and things have changed since then. As a result, I wonder if Icelandic foreign policy is too vague, ending too little policy that takes place, at least I don't create and discuss in the political field properly, that's what I think at least Sometimes. Based on these changes, the world scene that I mentioned earlier and the global threats we face and the opportunities that are also faced make me feel aware that we must attack in a clearer and stronger area of foreign policy here at the General Assembly. The minister has provided for his share of excellent reports, and they have been briefly discussed with the Foreign Affairs Committee and here at the Assembly Hall. But I still feel that there is no need for organized policies and policy plans. For example, one of the most important factors in Icelandic foreign policy should be the fight against disaster. Iceland can take the lead in that context and exert great international influence despite the dyspnoea. These examples show us. It shows our seat on the Human Rights Council, that's what we're listening to. In fact, all cases here at the council and all the lawsuits need to take into account this potential threat, another story. In Denmark e.g. has been developed a special green foreign policy. In Sweden, they are following feminist foreign policy, and although Iceland is certainly letting itself be both climate and equality in the international field, it can be done more formal and more efficient, and I think that it can be done more effectively. The union, like hopefully most others, is in here, and maybe all, is sure to be ready for that service. Since we are here discussing international human rights, it is very important to mention and intervene in the right and treatment of refugees. Refugees must enjoy human rights in the same way that other people do. Although I know that the law of foreigners and their actions may not be directly addressed. The minister is responsible for all the government's responsibility for that case. Now we look ahead to see that for the first time in Iceland, children are being sent to Greece despite reports of a terrible situation along the Mediterranean Sea. The restoration of people to Greece under these circumstances does not result in children getting the human rights we demand of people here. We can't take up a discussion here at the General Assembly and pat ourselves on top of good jobs, which certainly followed our session in the Human Rights Council, without mentioning it and joining in the violations of human rights that take place here at home. Mr. President. Finally, I remind that at the Fall of 2017, the presidents of all classes, unless, in fact, the Independence Party, declared that during the next council, during this council, there would be special emphasis on changing the alien law where the rights of children to escape and those in a delicate position would be particularly guided. As a result, it is a bit shocking to stand here, and nothing has happened in the group of paintings. Unless, in fact, the former Justice Minister has provided changes that have not been treated at the council, which, fortunately, go contrary to these measures, stipulated the rights of this group and set out regulations that do the same. On the other hand, I'd like to encourage the highest. To continue speaking for human rights and to remind them wherever he comes and wherever he goes and dares, the minister himself says in the report that it is important to dare, to speak plainly despite the fact that we are small. He's done a lot of good. This report is well - worked, and in many ways we can be proud of our seat in the Council of Human Rights. We are to take advantage of the opportunities when and if they give up to get back into it, and we can take additional steps, even though we may be small. But we must never fall into the trap of being so content with what we are doing that we cannot take up a discussion of what is going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u82	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the talk and wants to give special consideration to the concluding words. As soon as we feel that we have reached perfection, we are in a ditch and in a very bad place very fast, and this report is not to say. Some of them may be. On the other hand, a senator tells me that even though I have much to say, I feel very unfair. I'm not gonna park. A senator's word in the mouth, but we can only say so that climate and environment are something that we have stressed in our whole foreign policy. We have many examples of this, and we have a similar fine story to relate because we have followed with good examples, especially when it comes to renewable energy. We have given special attention to the affairs of the sea. We look at ourselves, we can say, as guardians of the sea. Not all of us know the sea as well as we do and depend on it as we do, and we give special emphasis on it. I'm not saying anything about it. A senator was scolding for the one standing here. It's the initiative of the person who says we're discussing this right now. There was no one who asked for this discussion, and I am under no obligation to submit this report. I have taken the initiative and will take the initiative in bringing reports just to discuss these matters. When we go to the board, we rely on the report as a matter of fact. A senator refers to and bases on this experience in continued policy development, when this is particularly the case. I note, though, that as we have discussed before, we have dealt specifically with human rights in connection with evolution. We're here to discuss these matters honestly, how much better we can go. But I believe we're on the right track and we've taken the right step.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u83	Mr. President. Yes, I think we're on the right track, and I actually think that mankind is in many ways on the right track. Still, we can do better. I realize that the report does not say that we're all right here, and I give the highest compliments. Minister again for the report if it has been unclear. We are doing so many good things in so many areas, including in climates, equality, and other things, such as the highest. The minister came in. We have a good story to say, as he said it, but we need to pull it together and tell it to others. I'm primarily calling for a more formal document, a policy available when entering the State Department's site. I think we could all use a job like that. However, it is clear, after the story of this morning's committee party, about our introduction to international commitments to the Paris Convention, that we have some perplexity, and there are very different opinions about where people should think and think. I think we have no shame in wanting to take that discussion because I believe it, and I know that there's a lot more here at the council across the line that wants to go in the same direction when it comes to these matters. I've said it repeatedly here that probably is the best export from the Icelanders in the field of human rights, equality, and various factors. We can take pride in it, but we may draw it together in a clear and formal way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u84	A respectable president. I agree that export products are far more than just fish and aluminum, including our ideas and experiences of what we have done well. We are, for example. with the United Nations School where we share our success; it is the geologic, marine, land - healing, in which many do not know that we have been successful, e.g. I didn't know it until I began to study it, so that's just being said, and then the equality. I'm glad I haven't heard anyone why. A senator here at the council wants to go back in that matter, just for example, but then it's about taking the next step. Just because I forgot earlier, because of what. A senator referred to a vote on Palestine, I was impressed. A senator to study our speech there. We were not shrinking back to Israel's progress, but this conclusion also needs to be taken into consideration by Hamas. I think everyone agrees on what looks at it. I like it. A senator comes in here discussing this matter objectively and objectively. When it comes to policy development, it's something we should always look at. On the other hand, these are issues. A senator referred to our emphasis. I think everyone on a global scale has noticed how we have taken up that matter. But, of course, it's like everything else that you can always do better. All ideas there are well subject. I believe we should discuss international matters more in this regard. Therefore, ... this report is established, and therefore I will bring more reports into the council if the council allows me to do so, not just a report by the secretary of state. Therefore, we have published a report that is not only available to the council but also to the nation, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u85	Mr. President. Yeah, I'm super-duty. A minister who insists on publishing more reports, of course, has been led in making these reports more interesting and accessible. In the time of the country's increased image and symbolization, there is a difference between the people and the people's more fun when it's a beautiful texture too. We are simply in a position that we will not be able to get through things ourselves, isolated in this country. All the great challenges we face require immense international cooperation. We need to strengthen our foreign service. We need to strengthen the State Department, and we need to strengthen the matter of foreign affairs at the council. That's what we're at the highest. Apparently a minister agrees. But to finish it by referring to the climate again, it is of course a concern if things have been prepared in a way that allows for a decline in the proportion of people who believe that global warming is caused by human power. Such propaganda requires that we overcome it. All scientists agree that it is us who have a prime responsibility, our consumption, our excess, we can say, and being shortsighted. That is why there is a particular concern when these voices are heard from time to time here at the council. I hope we're at the highest. Ministers can be allies in combating it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u86	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion. I think it's good that we're discussing civil affairs at the council, that we're discussing foreign affairs. I feel that these important matters have been discussed too little, so I'm glad that this case has been discussed and that this report has been submitted by the highest level. Secretary of state. I tried to make a decision. Minister I think that when we discuss human rights and when we take up the role of sitting in the United Nations Human Rights Council, we also need to look at ourselves and not consider ourselves above criticism. We need to consider, too, whether the things we say are more than just words. Rather, we need to consider that our actions are in harmony with our efforts to improve people. I must admit that I felt the highest. The minister of foreign affairs is a sensitive, perhaps skin - year - long minister to my questions before, in answer to the highest degree. Ministers, and I didn't really understand him any other than so that since we had things in pretty good shape here, we shouldn't discuss things that could be improved. In fact, by the time I reached the highest level, my attitude changed considerably. Secretary of State had a conversation with what. Einarsson Before that, he admitted that we would certainly not be above criticism when it comes to this group. That is in this light, a respectable president, who I made my answer to the highest. Ministers of foreign affairs and sought to find answers to how it harmonizes with our values and our main priorities in foreign affairs, including the U.S. to protect children from violence, to send five children to Greece, as is the case today. Five kids on the run. How does this harmonize with our values? That was my question to the highest. Secretary of state. But I didn't get the answer to that question, unfortunately. I also want to know how it would be compatible with our values to send a boy from the country, even though we are driven by the quality of transchild rights we have here and that it is one of our priorities. Yet, transboys are exonerated in uncertain situations. V.E.G. Secretary of State spoke of us as being on the lead when it comes to human rights protection, and I can totally agree with that. We do well in comparison with other nations, but as the Supreme One, we do so. A minister in his speech to the United Nations Human Rights Council of Human Rights required that we set a very high standard for the members of the Member States of the United Nations Council of Human Rights. It must also include a self - examination, an examination of what can be done better, and an ongoing effort to improve. I may mention something here that has been going on in Iceland for a very long time. It is the right of people with mental illness and mental disorders. We have received indications from the European Council, from the European Commission on defenses against torture and inhuman or other disrespectful treatment or punishment, since 1993 that our laws contain legal discrimination against psychiatric people. This was not removed, and it has not yet been replaced, but it is along the way after the Council agreed to a Senate resolution that a Senate committee should be established to revise the legal laws and other laws for the application of forced mental health. This is an important human rights issue that we've broken since 1993. It is quite a long time to ignore the tips and recommendations from our European Committee friends on the prevention of torture and inhuman or other disrespectful treatments or punishment. This is just one thing that I think is very important to get into what we need to improve, and it's to hold on to the rights of disabled people, the rights of mental illness. It's been very ill for us. It's been waiting, it's been falling apart, it's been a long time to fix it. It is a joy to see that this work is going on now, but it does mean that we are not overcrowding in this group of things. A respectable president. I may mention the fact that we have a representative of the United Nations Child Rights Committee, a large deal of costs, campaigns, and other things, but not of Icelandic citizens to consult this same committee they feel they are violating their rights as per contract. This is one of the points I'm referring to when I talk about the need for us to walk with a good example and look at ourselves and make up for ourselves. We need to watch this discrepancy, that we send a representative who is going to decide a different kingdom from our own, whether it will be violated by the United Nations Child - Court of the United Nations, but we will not allow our own children to seek there for justice. This is what I would like to say, but I also want to mention the European Council because it contains our clearest guidelines on human rights protection, as well as in the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. I'm glad we've been living in the United Nations Human Rights Council, and I found that very enjoyable. I was very happy with our actions against Saudi Arabia, and against the Philippines, and I thought it was a very pleasant approach to finally speaking out clearly about what went wrong with them. I'd like to say, though, that we're not supposed to stay on the same side as Saudi Arabia, compare us to that country, and say that that's why we're fine. But that's the way I feel about the compromise, somehow, that I hear from the highest degree of defense. Secretary of state to my questions. Of course, when it comes to human rights protection, we have a lot better than those in Saudi Arabia or in the Philippines, that doesn't mean we don't have to make things right here at home. Since we're talking about human rights protection, I may refer to the fact that this has been a ban on media coverage just before a court order has ruled that it has affected or has been likely to do so. Here we have experienced that national justice has been ignored when it comes to the Republic's constitution, and here we have also seen that national independence in Iceland has been questioned by the European Court of Human Rights. In my opinion, the response to this charge in the government was to reduce the credibility of the European Court of Human Rights. I don't think it's acceptable for a state that wants to lead in human rights protection to the same language as any state that wants to leave the Council of Europe. Should we set a good example, then I suggest that when the decision of the European Court of Human Rights is established in the National Court, ministers of this government might be balanced in their case, regardless of the court's decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u87	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. The minister of the foreign office for a fine report and a review in his speech as he considered its key points. I'd also like to say this in the beginning that I think foreign service with the highest power. A traveling minister took good care of this assignment, and he has good reason to make it clear that here I think it was a good job. I also believe that our participation in the United Nations Human Rights Council shows us whites that we can very well share in international cooperation, and we have much to contribute to it. When we do things carefully, we can influence, and we are listened to. Of course, having a full share in international witnessing on a broad scale is becoming more and more important for us. The emphasis on the Council of Iceland, I think, is reasonable, and I think it is wise to highlight the issues of the world and where pots are broken, but I think it is also wise when men play such a role in stressing matters in which countries have a good history to tell. I think a case to put on the tip was chosen just fine. And it's always good to be able to talk about things, make adjustments, and present critical criticisms if you have a good platform to stand on, i.e. that men do well themselves in these areas. I think that we Icelanders in general do, although, of course, we are not perfect. Iceland and I emphasized equality in this work, and we do so as more and more in the field where we appear, and we do so well. We have been able to do fine wrongs in the area of pride, reaching relatively far in the equal rights of men and women, both in word and on table, even though the table still has to do with it. Perhaps I would like to mention in the context that we still have the problem of considering women's work less than traditional male activity, and that is a work to be done, which should lead us by example. One project that is certainly listed on a list of projects is the rights of children. I think we're doing a great job there too, and we have a good story to tell, but we could probably do better so that we could have a stronger voice in that area. I think, for example. that it would be appropriate for us Icelanders, if we seek further participation in the Council of Human Rights and, as in other matters, that I think it is wise to take up children's affairs in a stronger way. I think we should also pick up the position of refugees and refugees and try to apply ourselves to our country of international cooperation. There, in some respects, we are doing fine, but in other respects, there is certainly room for reform and our doing better. Then I think we should give particular attention to making sure that the rights and rights of children fleeing are exemplary here. V.E.G. As shown by this fine report, the minister of foreign affairs has been a diligent spokesman in various foreign affairs, and he dares to turn people into sins where appropriate, and that is good. So I think it would be a worthy assignment that he spoke for these matters at a foreign level, as well as on a local level, so that local policy would be exemplary in this regard. I'm sure it's the highest. There's no way a minister will be on that level. I'm not gonna have much of a case on this. Generally speaking, I'm pretty comfortable with progress. Minister and foreign service in this field. Of course, there may always be things that might have gone better, should have adopted other subjects, and applied themselves harshly to certain nations, etc. But I think it's the highest. The minister of state is well rated for his performance and the whole foreign service in these matters, and I'm not going to say any more.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u88	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Secretary of State for coming here to discuss the United Nations Human Rights Act report. As we know, the discussion has ended at the 18 months of Iceland's long session in the Human Rights Council. It was the first set of elected representatives from Iceland, and it was at the same time a challenge and learning process that I think we can agree on success. Iceland's election on July 13, 2018, may be proposed as a turning point, and this project is certainly one of the most important things Iceland has ever taken and served internationally. Therefore, there is good reason for us to discuss the assignment here at the Hall of Congress and review the report that was taken together to evaluate how the programme was completed at the end of the term period in the Council of Human Rights. The project was difficult, but it is clear from the report that small countries, such as Iceland, and their foreign services are fully equipped to handle projects of such magnitude. It is important that the goals and emphasis be clearly defined, as they were. Human rights are not automatic, nor will they be spontaneous. They have always been part of an Icelandic foreign policy and need to remain that way. They are the constant subjects of society and the nature of human rights simply so that when one step in recovery is achieved, a new challenge will be presented. You have to stay on the watch all the time. The focus of Iceland's work in the council included speaking to the sexual equality, rights of queer people, child - care, putting the link between rights and environments in the wind, and promoting reforms in the work of the Council, all of which have been successful, and therefore, it is wise to stress our work. In particular, when reviewing the report, I find it especially interesting to consult package 2 which is a summary of measures made to follow Iceland's commitments in connection with the session of the Human Rights Council. It outlines how the operation was carried out and how it was conducted. I'd like to use a little time to look at these actions in particular. The first part turns toward participation in general, while the other measures focus on the five main points. I'm going to start with what's at the end of this summary and it's the impact of environmental change, including climate change, on human rights. That's where I think there's a chance to do something even better next time. There were three operations that were under way, but I think there's a lot of opportunities for Iceland to do better in cooperation with other projects that are being done by the United Nations today, such as the agreement against desertification. We have certainly carried out assignments there through the Landing School. The restoration of land and agriculture is a matter of human rights, a matter of great importance to human rights. It is the basis for food production in many countries where soil and vegetation can be cultivated and enough food is natural human rights. Restored land quality and environment are also part of the human rights of today's world. The loss of land quality is one of the biggest reasons why people flee their homes, directly and indirectly, and, of course, it is very important to climate. There's a group of paintings that Iceland and I are supposed to put on. Then, merely actions that depend on the equality and authority of women. There I think we are constantly contributing a great deal to the international community and should continue to do so. One action is to introduce the Icelandic equal wage position and encourage other countries to take action to ensure equal pay of the sex. Among other things, it was adopted that September 18 would follow a known day of the global struggle for equal wages. At times, you may feel that such days are minor, but in the days that have been devoted to certain matters, it was incredibly important to fight for equality and human rights. Then I stopped an operation that in my mind is somehow so self - determination that there should not be any need to fight for it internationally, but it is to contribute to the introduction of equality, which is most widely stressed by sexual and fertility health and rights. It had to fight to see that sex - education texts were not removed from the existing proposal. It's one of those things that we find in Iceland so probably, but it's just what matters that we fight for because we think it's such a simple right to have sex education wherever they live in the world and that sex and fertility health issues and the rights they follow are respected. Respect for the rights of LGBTI individuals, support of gay people's rights struggles, is a very important project and under which there are three important measures. It is speaking of issues, supporting the UN's work in this area, and increasing cooperation with other countries on the rights of gay people, and there are great opportunities. Finally, I would like to include just the questions that led up to the discussion, which is to follow. I think the report shows that we should think about moving forward in this field. There we should take note of the ways that each opens up and uses the opportunities that we can afford. And it seems to me that we should strengthen our cooperation with the North countries to give the northern voices more commonly. We handled this assignment well, and this is a good way to let our voice be heard in order to promote the affairs in which we have a good story to say, where we have a lot to share. It's a way that suits small countries like Iceland. Although the Council of Human Rights is not perfect, as is the case with other international institutions and is not undisputed, it is, however, the most important area of communication in human affairs on a global scale and is therefore a very important site. Of course, regularity in the council encourages us to do more and more on human rights within the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u89	A respectable president. I'd like to mention two things. That caught my attention. A senator said about land quality and land quality recovery. We have very many and varied ecosystems, which are not necessarily designed for food production and other things, but we also need to consider how to maintain them because they contain biodiversity, which is also a wealth, definitely. We have seen that various plants that we have not considered well enough have produced a very useful protein for drugs and things that are definitely something that must be preserved as such. It is of interest to note that this is being discussed with human rights, very interesting, in the context of climate problems and how there is a different problem in jungles than here, etc., but the same problem after all. That it is based on human rights matters is a global trend, a view of air quality and clean water, etc. and nature as a whole as human rights and evolution of the use of land and natural resources as human rights. I wonder, perhaps in connection with the Constitution work being done and the resource directive there, anyway. A senator has seen this very point clearly in the resource discussion. We should definitely follow this international movement in this regard, and we will seize the opportunity to place this as human rights in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u90	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I don't know if I can take it all the way, but I'm going to get started. Environmental matters are huge projects. It can then be cut into biodiversity, climate, ecosystems protection, but if we are going to provide a healthy environment for all on earth, which is the basis of individual human rights, we need to consider all of this. Biodiversity in a single ecosystem can be a basis for taking and ensuring a productive land next to food production. That is why it is very important that we set the standards, and to some extent they are in a constitution, to some extent missing, on the common holding of resources, and on access to and respect the nature that we need in order to ensure the quality of life and human rights. I can agree with that. But only in this case: Why are we not as a group of nations thinking about how we can reduce the deserts of the world? Let's take the Sahara, we'll see some sand from the Sahara, right down to ours. It was last year's Passover or 2018, and I don't quite remember what we got sand from the Sahara here. If we were to grow up just a small fraction, to restore land quality, we could change quality of life in a similar number of people, if we were to work in a more progressive way on this assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u91	A respectable president. That even caught my attention. on the basis of a conference that we have on the Environment and Transport Committee on the case of the release of organizations that are involved in the protection of nature, biodiversity and so on. At this time, we have a slightly distorted picture in which executives and others are involved and can sue the results of the environmental decision-making committees to the courts, but an organization that establishes obligations for nature's protection cannot. I see a certain discrepancies in these rights that we are discussing right now. The other thing I wanted to talk about is, as I spoke a few weeks ago, the third optional book of the United Nations Children's Covenant. V.E.G. Children's Minister said he agreed that we should finish the step, to introduce it, because we have a representative at the Child's Committee, like that. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir arrived in his speech. We have a representative on that committee, but we do not allow the Icelanders to plead their case for the committee. I wondered, " Will a senator agree with his minister that it would be normal for us to adopt the possibility for the Icelanders to be able to pursue this external device that we would naturally like to have? ' If we want to be labeled as good in human rights, we want others from the outside to look to us and see that we are doing well, including ourselves. by allowing outsiders to watch that it is all right according to all international standards.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. If I start with the charges and the arrival of an organization, I am now so cooperative that I always believe in the way I cooperate to solve the situation. I always see organizational work as a co-worker. By detecting ecosystems, having knowledge of the land, starting to plan for that work, the best results are yet to come. Certainly, we need to have ways if there is something wrong in this process. But then I wondered, " Who can take the position of associates to have rights above others? ' Is it those who decide to work in a union on nature protection or a farm society or a youth or a parent or a local government? To me, this is always a bit of this challenge, who... [[... have rights beyond others, that's the point.]] Yes, I think it's an important discussion that we have to lead to the outcome of this country like anywhere else. But I don't feel that way fully. The second question was about optional accounting with the children's covenant. I don't know exactly what it is, but we're a people of human rights who want to use us to do it and to fulfill all the approved things we're about to do. It may take a lot of time for us, and it is best to take it as short as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u93	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by thanking the highest. Minister for the report we're discussing here. I'm one of those senators who welcomes every opportunity to discuss foreign affairs in this room. I think we do it too seldom, so it is interesting to see how many have participated in the discussion here today. I agree that our seat in the United Nations Human Rights Council is definitely one of the most important roles that Iceland has taken on internationally. I think it's pretty well considered in this report, and I think it's good to see in its results that a small country like Iceland can have a powerful effect. I think we've really proved it by this short, but I think we're going to score our own sitting in the council. I thanked the highest. Minister for the report, and I'd also like to thank you for having responded so quickly and taken the seat that got out of there when the Americans asked for release. But I would especially like to thank our wonderful people in the foreign service involved in this assignment. It truly shows how quickly our people are responding, even though Iceland's foreign service is small, we are a small country, and how ready they are to work under stress and do things quickly and well. All those involved deserve much thanks. The media talk has the highest conclusions about Saudi Arabia and the Philippines. But I also found it very interesting to read this report on the 40th meeting session, where Iceland added weights to the scales regarding the approval of two important conclusions. One turned to the protection of human rights that can be linked to the environment, and the other dealt with women and girls in sports, with which it was the right to control the body of the Council of Human Rights, that individuals should not have to undergo unnecessary medical procedures and physical intervention. There's something we've been talking about in this room. This was the first time approved for the discrimination experienced by those with unorthodox sexual traits. Iceland supported this historical resolution, which was actively developed by South Africa and helped to win Iceland's track success and support in ensuring the release of a resolution was particularly celebrated by ILGA, which is the world's major umbrella group of gay people. I'm proud that we Icelanders both spoke in the Human Rights Council for support of this resolution and, in fact, for more and more ministers and officials at all times for the human rights and the interests of queer people. I'm proud that we've given ourselves that special status. There are some interesting things that are presented in this report, and there is a lesson that we can learn from our being on the Board of Human Rights. I like it when we once again assure ourselves that human rights are a cornerstone in our foreign policy. It's clear that Iceland has a good story to tell and a lot of things to say, and we should, of course, tell that story. It is also clear that Iceland and the Icelandic Foreign Service were fully capable of such projects and that small countries can have a powerful influence in their willingness to do so. I must admit that I had missed a poll conducted by the State Department in the mid-19th century to show that the participation in Iceland's work in the Human Rights Council was supported by 88.8% and more than 70% believed that Iceland's seat in the Human Rights Council could have a positive impact on global human rights development. I have to admit that I have experienced a very broad political support for our being in the Human Rights Council, but I didn't realize that the public could see the importance of our sitting there as much as I would like to hear it. I had the opportunity to attend a seminar held at a university in December on the day of human rights. It touched me very much that Lina Lina-Al-Hathloul--I don't quite know how to pronounce her name, a respectable president--was a special guest, and told the story of his sister, who sits in prison in Saudi Arabia for having driven a car. Her sister's a feminist aktienist. Although Saudi Arabia was the last country on this earth to admit, of course, the rights that women and men can drive cars are still in prison. There are these kind of stories that also touch a little with you. Then you realize, when you experienced the gratitude that shone on it, how important it is that Iceland's small country took a seat there and dared to stand up of course human rights and have the courage to support conclusions as other countries, which may be very similar to ours, find it harder to put forward. Then it is good to think that we did exactly that. I think that most of the people sitting here at the council and discussing foreign affairs even got some scruples when we agreed to accept conclusions about the Philippines. At least I got it. I allowed myself to respond to my good friend who was living in the Philippines when he criticized this resolution and received all kinds of messages and shipments from Filipinos, which assured me that we were doing something right in these matters. But like a dog. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson came in here earlier in his talk is certainly of good concern when it comes to human rights. If I understood why. A senator may have been criticizing the choice of the Philippines. But I feel that there is good reason why the human rights violations of the nations sitting on the Council of Human Rights are being adopted. But I can take the passage of a dog. A senator who is involved in human rights violations in other countries. It only shows how important the Human Rights Council is and how important it is that in all our foreign services, we speak for human rights. I'm proud we've taken that fight. I'm also proud that we speak in our foreign policy for women's rights and for the environment, I think it's a good foreign policy. The report also asks whether there is any basis for Iceland to be reassigned to the Human Rights Council, and thus it has. they were wondering at a meeting at night. State Department. This came up on short notice and was a brief mansion. I say for my part that I may not be quite ready to answer that question right now, but I don't think that we should cancel it, not at all. We must not forget, though, that being a valid member of the Human Rights Council is not a prerequisite for a state such as Iceland being promoted in this field, and, of course, there is a reason, and I trust it, to the highest degree. Secretary of state, all of the government and all of them. Every time we are international and take up human rights, members of the body of elders who share in the worldwide work use this opportunity, support sound conclusions, and maintain this matter. I also agree with the report that I don't think that we're going to some sort of campaign for seating in the Human Rights Council. But I think there's good reason for a state like Iceland to tell her own good story, to use its voice, and always speak for international human rights. In 2025, I feel that a seat in the Human Rights Council can be considered, but I agree with the highest level. Of course, a minister would have good reason to make a great deal of political reconciliation. Then we're making decisions ahead of time for people who are going to choose to sit here in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u94	Mr. President. As a member of a foreign business committee, we would like to open up, probably many of them. First of all, the report we're discussing is excellent and informative. It is also good to meditate on the value and importance of human rights, for it is sometimes said that human rights are the foundation of human nature, and there is much in it. We both need to maintain some kind of status of human rights, but we also need to move on for improvement. If you look over the world well over, perhaps half a century or so, we all know that this has been accomplished considerably. But it's still a long way to the country quite widely. Old slogans from the Democratic Revolution in Europe that cry out for freedom, equality, and brotherhood or solidarity have spread into the North American model, and we tend to think that countries are better off living in the world. They remind us that most countries, including the Norwegian countries, do not have a perfectly clean slate when it comes to human rights. You can look back a little. We were discussing the rights of gay people, and we don't have to go very far behind in Icelandic history to see how the way the queer people treated themselves was. Whether we are Norwegians or Icelanders, we always need to remember that there are human rights here that we need to add to and increase in one area or another. Even our rights for food or some basic thing may not be in perfect condition and may be late in perfect condition, but we can correct it. The success of an 18 - month session in Iceland is noteworthy and, in fact, appreciated as a whole. It has been observed by one speaker after another, and I agree with it. We talked about this on the State Department a few days ago, and it was pretty much the same thing. The committees were happy with Iceland's conduct, just as sudden as it came up. It also stated that we need to remember another agency in which we are involved, the Council of Europe. There, Iceland's civil rights work is from time to time, and it plays a clear role. We've been there in a good place. There's plenty to take, like a dog. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir mentioned. We've been using ourselves in the affairs of Israel and Palestine properly as part of Iceland's foreign policy. We've been lured into the Philippines, and although there's no country on the list, it was found that our involvement had a significant impact. In other words, it is not always the main thing to walk toward the most, the largest, the worst, and the worst - the others must be severed from time to time, just below in the pecking order when it comes to human rights violations in the world. The same is true of Saudi Arabia as it has been mentioned here in Venezuela. I would like to add such countries as Brazil to the environment and the behavior of some Brazilians, especially the government, against the pioneers in Brazil. One small country has at times been e - mailing us, agents from the small kingdom of Bahrain, where human rights violations are common. It's too much to take, and we can move closer, even to Europe, where both human rights are being violated, we want to count on our human rights, on the issue of civil rights, and on the freedom of the media, and on various general democratic rights. One of the states we've been talking about in the Foreign Affairs Committee in this regard is Turkey. I am deeply concerned with the actions of Turkey myself, also because it is one of our alliances and is involved in a wide range of European cooperations. In some cases, it has come to the very edge of the matter, in the opinion of people who are interested in it. There are many aspects of human rights that have been discussed, but it is very important to remember that he is in both directions. That's the benefit of Iceland, and then the benefits are what we're helping. I have at times felt that people are too busy with the benefits of Iceland, but forget that we are having a good effect. It also discusses the risks of trying to push forward and dare. It is, of course, that when it comes to human rights, it is very difficult to punish those who point to the obvious point that Caesar is naked. I don't think that risks should ever be a special threat to us except in exceptional circumstances. If we have the right view of both benefits and risks, I will not worry about the future. And who is she? What should we do? It has been observed that the first step could be not to go into some kind of campaign or campaign, but to use the Norwegian group, where a U.S. National Human Rights Council can walk between countries and grab the day now and first declare our motivation to continue this work and see if a choice between Norway and Iceland cannot fall so that Iceland can be chosen. If not, we have a second chance, whether in a similar way or in a way that leads to an animal battle in a small country to get us to that place. But it can get pretty tricky. I'm not going to have many words to say about it, but I'm only going to come to the end to question the U.S. Human Rights Council of Human Rights. Of course it came in pretty fast, our mansion. Well done, but I think there's more to talk about, in Congress and elsewhere, when and how we appreciate the initiative to take up violations of human rights in the United Nations Human Rights Council and elsewhere. We need to evaluate when we are a sponsor and what reasoning or writing ability, as men often say, when we are working on it. And what do we choose, and how? Is that the severity of the fractures, are they sudden surprises? Is it a violation of human rights that has lasted for a long time? Is it something close to us, e.g. Equalities in gender or such? There are a number of reasons, not just one, that arise, and it's nice to put these policies to work either at assembly or anywhere else. Over the years, I believe Iceland continues to play a role in the United Nations Human Rights Council, and it is up to us to take care of it as best we can and get back to it. But I would like to use all the last words here to remind me of the growing and good cooperation that has been between the highest. Minister and State Department. There is one of the cornerstones in the work of the Generals on the other and the State Department, and the other, an old manger, a foreign agency. It must be powerful and well tailored. Criticism is very common. I've been supportive that she's well-formed, getting enough money. It has at times been lacking, especially in business, but most of all, that foreign policy and organization are both efficient and in the interests of people, most of the world's people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u95	Mr. President. We will discuss this important report on Iceland at the United Nations Human Rights Council. Thank you very much. Minister for the report and his story here. Iceland and I stress human rights, they're a quick and strong part of our society. These include emphasis on the equal rights of the sexes and rights of gay people. However, while we view the fact that we have reached the very future in the world of human rights, we must not be trapped in a self - righteous and self - righteous manner when it comes to this important issue. We must never lose our sense of urgency. Human rights are a task that will never be completely solved. We need to stay alert and strive to improve. In our society, we do not tolerate any form of discrimination. This cannot be continued. But I think of a variety of neighboring countries that have disliked Jews. For example, in the United Kingdom, recent elections were adopted in December. That in part, because of the strong laws involved in this aspect of the work force, a Jewish hostility in the field of the Apostle Party was a part of their nation's cleanness. This is very close to us, and it can be said of various European countries that this kind of hostility is growing. Of course, that is very sad. I hope that we will be free of such excess. Think of it, Mr President. Two of our alliances will enter the Atlantic Union. I'll let you name Turkey and Spain. In Turkey, journalists and judges sit together in prison for an alleged lack of loyalty to the government. Spain has suffered severe imprisonments for politicians because they follow their convictions of Catalonia's independence. The situation is so serious that concerned politicians appear to have no chance of a righteous trial. These prison sentences and imprisonment of these men appear to be in the court of the Supreme Court, allowing these men to suffer a loss of human rights that are entirely intolerable. We must bear all our weight against our alliances, and indeed it is such concerning Spain that it is not only our alliance in the Atlantic Union but also an important cooperation with our European economy. Mr. President. I believe, after studying a report of the highest order. Ministers and his Ministry, that we can be proud of our effectiveness on the United Nations Human Rights Committee and in general of foreign service. Of course, taking priority is a matter of assessment. V.E.G. A minister has discussed the Philippines and Saudi Arabia, a very important project indeed. But this growing Jewish hostility in Europe, and including countries that are close to us, is also a subject that requires attention. The report also calls attention to a table on which countries have most often sat on the Council of Human Rights. Among the countries that have often sat there are lands where homosexuals have the absolute rights of hydrogen, and they have to endure heavy leather if they are caught and do not have to trace it. I am staying here with a kingdom like Catar, on page 24. 36, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain. It is a notorious kingdom when it comes to the affairs of homosexuals. Their course and their conduct are prerogative and unprecedented. Mr. President. At the end, I want to give an example of the importance of foreign service, and as soon as it is needed to be expelled in the most practical way possible, work in our embassy in Copenhagen during the previous part of the century. A cop and an interesting picture of this time can be read in the book From Hafnarg Government to the Republic, by Jón Krabbe, as the Supreme Court. A minister here brings up. I must mention that Jón Krabbe was the grandson of Jón Guðmundsson, editor of Nationalolfs, who served for many years. Jón Guðmundsson was like we know the closest associate of President Jón Sigurðsson. Now that I've mentioned these men, it's nice to mention that, because we've also reached the end of this discussion, Jón Krabbe was baptized in the head of both Jón and Jón Guðmundsson his grandfather and President Jón, both of whom were present. We have here in front of the conference a painting of Jón Guðmundsson, and it is a pleasure to remember these fine men. In the 19th - century book of Jón Krabbe, a mother, Kristín Jónsdóttir, and a Danish father who was a physician and scientist - came to the country of the 19th - century U.S.A. because of erupting disease of the time, scientific activity - we read about the communications of the Icelandic government and the Danish government and the king in particular through and through the hand of our embassies in Copenhagen. There, Jón Krabbe served for a long time, the longest of which, as it is called in the case of foreign service, was sent by ambassador to form in the preeminents of the son of Björnsson, later president of Iceland. Then I have named the two men, Jón Krabbe and Sveinn Björnsson, who pioneered in Icelandic foreign service. For those who serve there now and at any given time, they are a fine example. Thank you for his report, and thank you for your interesting discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u96	Mr. President. I want to be like everybody else first by saying thank you very much. Minister for this report, which I think is of utmost importance and is part of what was here today, that there was a need to be strengthened by a foreign policy debate in general at the council. I can agree with that. Hence, you may find it a little strange that when foreign - language reports are being discussed at the council, the council will be emptied. It's a little like when the law's back on day two, everybody's missing in the house. It is one thing to plan on strengthening the discussion and another to include more people in it than just people who are members of a foreign committee. At least it's very important to me because it's one of our systems, what our policy and implementation are in general. This will be a report on our presence at the National Institute of Human Rights for this 18 months. It was unexpectedly that, as this has been attributed, and our focus was on equality, children, queer people, and climate issues including, as well as our priorities within the country. Mr. President. I believe Iceland's home in the Human Rights Council has been a great honor to the Icelandic foreign agency as well as to the country's reputation. In a time when international cooperation is being brought about, it is important for all nations to participate according to their ability. Iceland as a small country showed that we have the courage to stand up and criticize injustice, saying to the funk of the schoolyard that he is ashamed of. We as a small nation may be able to say things that other nations may not dare or feel unable to say, and we have. It is also important to use the same metering device when it comes to critical violations of human rights anywhere in the world, whether in Israel or in Saudi Arabia or anywhere else. Without a warning example, it will be easier for nations to talk about hypocrisy and then the credibility of the Council of Human Rights will weaken as a moral compass. It matters when Americans withdraw from the council as decided by the Trump government, which was why Iceland came into operation. In fact, in times past, the U.S. government of Georges Bush has done so. As a result, countries in the future may not be able to criticize the violations of human rights while they themselves face offenses. There's nothing new under the sun. Today, there is widespread violations of human rights in India and the Philippines, but these countries are both members of the Human Rights Council. It may sound a little awkward to think that a state of human rights violations is in such a capacity as human rights, but we have the left figure at least that conversation and cooperation are the results. It was found that it was relevant when Iceland brought 36 countries under criticism of the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia. There is no need for it, but the situation of the human rights in that country is far different. We also did so by criticizing the situation of rights in the Philippines, where we reaped a threat from the government in that country, which, of course, judged ourselves. I remember talking to the Minister's Council of Ministers at EFTA. Secretary of state on these matters, including On the terms of the European Court of Human Rights that we have been installing all new EEA contracts that have been updated and are new. At that time, we discussed the agreement with the Philippines. I think it's very important, and it's been shown that it's important to have the courage to say things out loud. We emphasized the rights of queer people, knowing that in many parts of the world, they simply do not have the right to go. Of course, it is important to make diligent use of this area. We have a remarkable history of equality, although we also know that we are not at our destination in that regard. But we can point to things that have worked here in order to increase equality, and we can point to things that are simply not okay. The Prime Minister addressed the Council of Human Rights as a compromise between the government and specifically discussed the link between environmental and human rights and the fact that it spoke in a clear way of heading for a wholesome environment. This may reveal a little about how things are often discussed internationally under a rose. Prime Minister also participated in a special discussion of equality, with the emphasis on the battle against sexual violence in the workplace. The minister also discussed Iceland's battle for equal wages, and he was referring to the same material that was then being discussed in the council itself. During this period of time, there were some conclusions to consider, including to protect humans from environmental rights. One of them also discussed women and girls in sports, where the right to control their own bodies, that individuals should not have to undergo unnecessary medical procedures and parts of their bodies. For the first time, there was accepted the discrimination that people with unorthodox sexual traits will experience, and of course Iceland supported this historic resolution presented by South Africa and we also helped achieve it. And as we have seen here today, this support of Iceland was particularly welcomed by ILGA, the major, global, umbrella - control organization of gay people. We remember how half the world that you felt when we talked about it. ... aboutboys here at the council. This is, in effect, medical procedures and various parts of the body of the same person that are hurt, that they are not being interrupted. It almost put the embassy in Washington on its side, and there was a lot of fuss over that bill when it came up here at the council for circumcision. It was apparent that having good people in foreign assignments is important. Iceland also became very relevant when we went to New Zealand's decision and others about death, which is devoted to the fact that New Zealand hasn't elected a representative of the Council of Human Rights, so we needed the support of a state and we accepted it. It focused on the sex and fertility health and the rights associated with it. We know that these are generally controversial matters and are often proposed by the Council of Human Rights when they come to their attention. The Egyptians and the Russians tried to have references to sex education in the text of a resolution, but Iceland requested a vote for the change, and unfortunately it was clearly rejected. Despite its innuendo, I think we can be proud that our first request for a vote of a United Nations organization would be clear on a matter like this. Our left green policy is that Iceland should have the courage to criticize but not to quarrel with any people. To support the self - determination of the nations is to support, for example. not an attack on Israel. Mr. President. Finally, I agree that it is important now, as a minister entered and explained in the report, that if we wanted to continue, we would review our session in the Human Rights Council to try to figure out what was successful and what lessons we could learn and how we would want to behave if we wanted to continue. The representatives of Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International have promised our march, and I find that saying a lot about how we've succeeded, and I strongly support our pursuit of a representative in the Human Rights Council. I believe we have the most important business, have shown it, and have proved it in the short time we had for distribution. As a matter of fact, I believe that the greatest force in the world is that the North countries are striving hard to represent the council. As we have seen, we may be chosen between us and the Norwegians, who are fighting for a seat with the United Nations. I think it's important, and we should try to get together about it with the Norwegians, and I hope we have the good fortune to sit there within a few years so that we can continue to make good of ourselves as if I think it was done in this brief period of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u97	A respectable president. Hv. A senator here talked about VG's policy, and he was afraid to criticize whom I take my mind, at least the second part. Maybe not as much about policy, it's political, it's a whole different thing. It's interesting to me that according to what I heard, there were talk of various human rights. Senator. Of course not everything, it does not cover everything. It's a bit varied. Human rights are a lot of things. But I wanted to ask specifically about freedom of expression. We'll have a problem here in Iceland if we just go home and have the guts to criticize things here while we're criticizing matters about our sitting on the Human Rights Council. Now, the European Court of Human Rights has been judged on the freedom of expression by the media, on six counts against the State, and two on the period of 2012-2017. This suggests that if you're going to dare to criticize, you're going to have to deal with your expression freedom of speech here in Iceland and maybe you're going to need some relief. In this context, I would like to ask why. A senator's comments about the truthfulness of the charges and the importance of judging whether or not a statement is open to freedom of expression. According to all the guidelines for this procedure, it should be taken into account whether the person is telling the truth or not, whether it is a matter of freedom of expression or prejudice. In case of a moment. In this case, a senator could discuss the truthfulness of a statement, since this is regarding the freedom of expression by the media and its quotations, it is of great importance in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u98	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, we've lived through this, unfortunately, we have received judgments from the European Court of Human Rights, which are not in the interests of the State. I have always stood by that the media should have considerable freedom when it comes to expression, and I agree with what was mentioned earlier with the media ban at a particular media center, that I should not have felt at the time of it, and I think it should be more extensive than tighter. With the truth of recommendation, I'm sure it's always reversed. Of course, this needs to be evaluated on a case by case basis, such as in a quirk. A senator may know. The law and the sense of law are often such that when we're dealing with whether we think something is malicious or we don't think people are honest or what it's all about, it can be reversed. I don't agree that freedom of expression allows us to say anything to anyone. I'm not there. I don't think so. I think everything matters. I think circumstances are important. I feel that what we do here at the council and how we get out in a foreign field is important to us. We are, for example. talking about foreign service, and I don't think we can allow ourselves to say anything. It's a matter of opinion, obviously. But as far as the truth is true, that must always be so, so we're probably talking about something that would suggest, treat someone, and then we just have to weigh it. Is this all there is, or does it have something else to do with it? And what if freedom of expression were totally unreceptive?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u99	A respectable president. In each case, an assessment must be made as to the truthfulness of the matter, or what to say. Senator. Let's take them for one case that spoke out against him. paritaprevir The Ævarsdóttir Ahvardsdótir, led by the Committee of the Nations. Their record of truthfulness could not be appreciated, despite that, as it were. A senator said, in each instance it should be appreciated. It may well be that such comments are true or not appreciated by the streets, but it must be the first exit query to evaluate at least whether or not the recommendation is true and whether it can be determined as a violation of ethical principles, as in this case, or not. If we are not even to appreciate the truthfulness of the words, we have reached a very high point in ice. The truth, in any case, may be a violation of ethical principles and may be a violation of freedom of expression in this case in violation of the freedom of expression by members of Congress. In this particular case, I would like to ask: If we are going to look at the rights and the freedom of expression by members of Congress, who are supposed to be very broad, as it were. A senator mentioned earlier, both in general, but especially in terms of the freedom of expression by members of Congress, how can you avoid evaluating whether the comment is true or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u100	Mr. President. I'm not going to discuss that particular matter as a matter of course. A senator mentioned, I don't think it's proper. There has been a specific consideration that I find inappropriate for other members of Congress to express themselves. It's my opinion not to do it and has nothing to do with this particular case. I just feel like the process we're still doing. We still have a rule of order that we gave ourselves, senators, and now we're trying to work on it and get outside help. Not long ago, we were visited, which I think can be of great benefit to us in helping us figure out how we can do these things better. Secular violations, whether of members or of other members of the body, can include many things and not necessarily involve words. But here we may be talking about freedom of expression and human rights on the other hand, and we know that not always going out in the world and not always here with us, has not always. I think we need to go through the rule book and we're doing it here within the house. But I'm not taking my stand on this particular case, I've decided not to. Hv. A senator shakes his head over it, but it is my decision not to step into a debate that has taken place in the media and elsewhere, and the results have been obtained here in the house. Therefore, I feel that it is inappropriate to offer a different conclusion myself or perhaps the same in the Ponta Alllis.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u101	A respectable president. Afraid to criticize or dare to criticize, that's the question. It's very interesting to hear people say how well we do ourselves abroad, but they don't have the guts to criticize how we're doing here in the country. There are many things interesting to consider in regard to human rights within the country. If we looked inside, it's the basis for how we want to behave, I would assume, but in my jobs as a senator, I see that it's not always true. If I allow myself to review any issues before the council, for example, it is. optional accounting on an international agreement on economic, social, and cultural rights. It provides an external arrangement, a committee of the United Nations, similar to the Child's Court Committee to which we are represented. This committee covers a number of issues that arise in Iceland, sending out tips on these matters, but we do not allow people to report them to the committee for observation. At the present time, the committee takes up matters of its own initiative, the possible tips. To accept this optional financial, social, and cultural Protocol would in fact not change any of the access of the European Commission to the affairs of Iceland. She is already sending a number of indications to us. However, that would allow people to communicate in a formal way with this committee from Iceland. Another is the signing and validation of the third optional book with the United Nations Children's Covenant, which is also a case before the General Assembly. On this committee, the Child - Court Board, we represent, like, one of them. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir studied here in a talk earlier. A child - care minister agrees, for a child - care minister, that children should have the right to bring their case to this child - care committee, of course, he could hardly be considered a paediatric minister or keep that stamp if he were against it. So I don't quite understand why it hasn't just been through here. Third, as far as that matter, the councilman, and that child - care minister agree with this, the children's covenant itself is in a bit of limbo about the rules of the child's interest, they don't exist. When a judge or a lawyer presents a matter of close association or custody, there are no rules of conduct to determine what the child's interests mean, to what factor it should be considered. They don't exist in Iceland. However, they exist in the United Nations Children's Covenant. Children's covenants are to be looked to for education and health, and all the factors listed in the children's covenants. But because the rules of the covenant and the general comments about the covenant have not been established, judges consider the whole procedure in order to protect their child's interests. It is simply an intentional decision in connection with some stability in child protection laws, which is often used as a means of keeping children in one place rather than in another, to demonstrate stability. As a result, the law has been fulfilled, the duty of a judge to look to the best interests of children. Keeping them in the place they have always been in the past despite the possibility that other things that would have to be viewed according to the children's covenant could change their conclusions. There is a lack of protocol on how to explain professionally what is the best interests of a child under the United Nations Children's Convention. It simply gives us a decline score, as shown in the response of the Minister of Justice to my inquiry, a treatment period of exceptional length. It is very unclear when asking which methodology is used in handling procedures, interviews with children, etc., if children have representatives to represent their interests. In a custody dispute, parents, mother, and father are in conflict with interests that are not necessarily the child's interests. It's pulling. There is no representative of a child who makes sure that everything in the United Nations children's covenant is followed, which is a tremendously good and important document. The other day, we were discussing a conflict of votes. It is the basis for democracy, the basis for human rights in all things. According to the OECD guidelines, at most 10% differences in the terms of votes, above all, are justified in offseting remote areas of practical use in terms of elections and votes and the like. Under very special circumstances, 15% of the votes are justified in weighed against the positions of certain minority groups, indigenous groups, and such. In Iceland, we have 100% discrepancies at a vote. It is worth reviewing the effect of mischievous votes, in fact, on our basic rights to be active members of society, having democracy, far from all of us. There is still much to say. But at least we're at this time. I traced that we have repeatedly lost our affairs before the European Court of Human Rights to the freedom of expression by the media. Over the years, there were eight missing six cases, lost by the Icelandic state, and two that lasted. Clearly, there are very good reasons to consider why human rights violations seem to be a problem. There must be something in the law. There are no judges judging from anything but the law. If the result under law is a violation of human rights, a violation of freedom of expression, something must be wrong with the law. Yet, nothing has yet been fixed. Another thing that was mentioned here during the discussion was very interesting, but there are common resources, natural resources, and their development. There has been a state of global awareness about climate rights, to influence the development and use of common resources, and to benefit or profit from their use. All of this and other information is contained in the new constitution chosen by the Icelandic nation in 2012 that an updated constitution should be proposed, which has remained in a drawer and is in a strange process about a few things over others. It's important things, but I don't understand why less important things can't be completed that no conflict seems to be involved. It would be very quick to roll it through, and then we'd be at least has provided a solid basis for all the changes that people in general saw very much in common. There are a few things that are truly political problems for some, and it is interesting that these things are always used to prevent all other changes, even though everyone agrees with the changes being made. Very strange. I think it describes the state of human rights in Iceland as it goes and happens, no matter what we say in the foreign field of human rights. We must also look inside and see where the criticism comes from and how much we can afford.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u102	V.E.G. President. I want to be like the others in this great discussion first, thank you very much. Secretary of state before history and at the same time initiative for this report and to bring it before the council and then the report for itself that is informative but mostly, and perhaps more important, illuminating. I'm going to say, a respectable president, that I think it's a good idea and it's perhaps the most important thing to learn from this breakthrough that puts Iceland in the UN Human Rights Council for Iceland. How precious it is to have a voice in such a world field as it is enjoyable, but especially, when we look at this stage, to have a voice for our voice, so that the emphasis and cornerstones of our foreign policy, to form on human rights and on equality, comes to the attention and increase in progress that is always the goal! V.E.G. A minister made it very clear that it may not be important for us to learn from this process. It is well considered in the report, and it is set up from the leading person to choose, which was rather short - lived, and then the work itself, and the seat of the council that is valuable for our future foreign service and that can confirm that we are worthy of such responsibility and that we can make a bold voice in the realm of international affairs. We showed it, the highest. The minister of foreign affairs took it very well, very well in the matters of Saudi Arabia to form, as we led criticism of the situation in women's human rights, and in concluding the situation in which we were a very decisive, respectable president, and clear as I appreciate the key, to bear this responsibility, but at the same time it is important to promote our viewpoints and human rights. We were able to give more attention to the affairs of children, climate, environment, and many other matters. Our ministers, the highest. Secretary of state and supreme. Prime Minister, made good comments in our views, and in order to form, our conclusions on the equal pay of men and women are evidence of this. Thus, we have had a powerful entrance through our session at the Human Rights Council and have been able to reach our values in international matters. V.E.G. The Minister of Foreign Affairs entered the testimony of those who have expressed themselves on Iceland's conduct or presentation in certain cases that I tore up here, and presented in Iceland's Department of Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, and in appreciation of the nations that we were focusing on, like Saudi Arabia and the Philippines. I was not going to give a long talk, but I wanted to thank you primarily for this initiative and the discussion of the report. On the contrary, it is so prominent in this discussion that we agree on the importance of presenting our baseline values, the main aspects of human rights. That is a very clear will in this discussion for us to take advantage of. Of course, the report highlights lessons and conclusions and tosses how we should view such participation in the future as well as that the North countries have regular opportunities for human rights. I think it's a decisive will that we include such participation in human rights, equality and peace. I'd like to finally thank you for this report and for this fine discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u103	A respectable president. I want to use this opportunity to thank the President in particular for allowing me to come and finish this discussion. I'm also gonna take this opportunity to thank them. Congress members who participated in the discussion very much, and I agree with it at the latest. A senator I think the message is very clear. I feel that, with exceptional exceptions, I'm not going to go out there, that there's a good deal of agreement on our operation in the council, and that's fundamental. Without my intention to enter the unique topics that may not have been directly related to this discussion, I have never heard the criticism that has been presented here on our human rights issues. I've only heard it in this room, that the criticism of the Society's Institute of Human Rights - we can't avoid peer criticism any more than others, and we'll definitely continue, next 2021, to take it very seriously, and that's the case. We don't need political wills, but it's all about the process. I have not met anyone, since this case has been handled, who has not crossed the fact that Iceland and I are in the highest order when it comes to human rights. I've never met a man who's spoken in any other way, so it's quite surprising to hear how some people speak here. Although all of us are aware that we have not achieved perfection, and far is involved and can always be better and more critical of ourselves, the point of being in some way consistent with the reality we have. A respectable president. I loved hearing warm words for the staff of the foreign service, and it is good for them to appreciate their work. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. Foreign Affairs Committee particularly for the cooperation of this case. Such issues are natural, so members of the State Department do not always agree with any reason. There's nothing to call it. However, the discussion, especially in this matter, has always been perplexing, and only somewhat public and kind, and we in the Ministry of State have received helpful tips and support. I'd like to thank you too. Councilmen here have thanked us for our work. Just to be said, so that there's no compromise, we have a very good partnership with all the North countries, it's a firm and close partnership, and when it comes to our potential sessions, all such things are being enjoyed in a very good partnership and together with all the other representatives of the North countries, and have no shadow of it, and there's no indication that it will be. Finally, I'd like to say that what has given me the most thought when it comes to this work, our seat in the council, is the reaction of other countries. They have had a great impact on me, especially on the countries that we compare with us, on their motivations, and on their gratitude for our progress. Of course, we do nothing about it alone. Rather, we cooperate with that Kingdom. We have been in an orderly way dealing with human rights organization, which has also encouraged us and called attention to what they believe we have done well, and this is very important. Yet, it is this way in life that what impressed me most, and it even came. for discussion, I especially refer to two women who came to the country, from the Philippines and, on the other hand, a lawyer from Saudi Arabia who are, we can say, in the field, and we know things very well by personal experience. Hv. paritaprevir In particular did the Ennis Haraldsdóttir mention it when these people make an effort to come to Iceland to draw the attention of the public and the council and the nation on what we do, how important it is. In this case, I met with those women, where they said this directly to me, and it impressed me and tells us what we know, that our contribution has mattered, and it has done so in a direct way, as it has been shown. This must move us to continue in our course of action. A respectable president. So much politics is involved, so hopefully we will debate it forever. But it is good to be able to agree on certain factors, especially when it comes to our foreign policy. I could not help but hear a good agreement between members of all categories, or at least most, at least all, about our conduct in the council and stress that we continue to work in the way that has been done. This is an important road for us, and we should also remember that it does not focus on one politician or one political party in one government. If the opportunity comes back, at least one election has become, and no one knows where the situation will be. As a result, there may be more elections, there is further reason to have an informed, upbuilding conversation about this and to try to get the most solid sense of solidarity in our work in this area.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u104	President. I would like to recommend a bill to correct a law on income tax change. This bill suggests that indiscriminate personal discounts will be paid to individuals regardless of whether they have taxable income or not. According to local law, a person's discount falls, which is not arranged according to the 67th paragraph. A law on income taxes. The bill suggests that if a person's discount is not already arranged to pay income tax, an answer, or a wealth tax, it will be paid to the individual. This form of income taxation has been referred to as a negative income tax, which means that a base value currently legalized in the form of a personal discount will always be paid to anyone who has the right. That arrangement would be especially useful for young people and students, many of whom earn little money but instead make debts in the form of student loans. If students were paid out invalid personal discounts during study periods, perhaps some of them could borrow less or just make ends meet. The present system of government demands a minimum of 1 60,000 dollars. every month to make a full - time personality discount. It is obvious that the terms of those under those income limits are poor. For this reason, unbound personal discounts will decline to a large extent to those with little or no income. This group consists of some of young people, family members, students, and others who have little general income but also those who accept financial support from rural society and those who for some reason are not entitled to such assistance. The cost of this change has already been investigated. In response to the financial and economic minister's request to Björn Leví's Gunnarsson, the 148th legislator Council, the total amount of bad personality records in 2016 was 10,512 million. K. But 10,477 million. K. The year of income was 2017. Thus, the cost of such a change can be estimated to be about 10.5 billion. It is important to assume that the decrease in tax burden of those who are the least earner in society will result in saving money elsewhere in the community. In this way, this growing expenditure by the United States results in a decrease in expenses in other places. For example, there is the inevitable cost of the State when people live in poverty, e.g. health and social and health costs and the justice system. President. On Tuesday, we saw that every extra dollar is important to those mentioned among the hands. We also saw that the current approach to the welfare system by its means and restrictions has brought to us 28,000,35,000, of 10,000 children living in poverty. President. This must be a failed attempt. We must have to revise this system. It is also important to keep in mind that the payment of an unbound personal discount is not to be taken by the recipient and therefore will not affect the pay of the recipient from a insurance agency or from a community or from other payments that may be related. This does not result in impairment of other recipient's forwards. The idea of a negative income tax, or what I've called a person, was written about 80 years ago. One of her main spokesmen is Milton Friedman, the most famous economist of liberalism. In fact, the publication being discussed here for the purpose of providing corrupt personality discounts in Iceland is less in format than the original idea of negative income taxes where a month's personal discount is very low. Still, the opportunities during the operation are quite numerous. It has been discussed how to pay for personal payment. It's far from becoming an implacable problem. The amount is moderate, and it can be expected without the government being placed on its side. A fourth of this amount can find its way back into the system in the form of a merit tax. The budget will decrease to some extent. Soon the success of the procedure will tick in, e.g. at the lower cost of deportation, but he runs at tens of billions each year. Before obtaining a personal discount, you need to discuss how best to measure the results of the procedure. These include specific experimental activities and the need for the State, educational institutions, and the overall economy to examine the results in a larger context than economics alone. Research that has been conducted in a similar assignment abroad suggests that the payment of a damaged personality discount could have a positive effect on many sources of prosperity introduced by the government in their report on the economy, e.g. increased health, stress, and higher levels of education as well as increase the cost of money and home debt. President. With the simple change of paying off the character discount to those who have no income, or the difference to those who do not fully use the personal discount, a small first step can be taken in ensuring all specific basic incomes. In the present economic system, this action would be most useful to students, but at the same time it opens many doors and could become the start of mental changes in our community. It could become a stepping - stone to the next steps, taking the lead in changing the taxable tendencies and reformal systems to the irrefutable infrastructure to ensure that everyone can share in our communityly values, regardless of their position and income.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u105	A respectable president. I'd like to go to a little detail about the cost and profit of this case. A 2013 report was published by the Association of Civil Society in the capital area, which covered the national cost of student elimination. It's so interesting that if we look at where a supplied character would be distributed, it would be for young people, including those who are young. in high school, where professional rates are reasonably high, as well as among college students. The amount that would pay, i.e. the character discount, almost equal to LIN loan when the person lives in a home house. On this basis, a person may totally avoid loans and secular work by studying with equal success in education. People finish faster and are less likely to miss school. There will be some of the great national gains from getting adults into their previous professional lives, people who don't have debts on their backs. According to a report made by the Society's Association in the capital area, the worldwide cost of deportation in 2012 was estimated at 52.4 billion dollars. Each student on suspension cost them about 14 million. K. each time the amount is much lower than paid each year for the discount. Certainly, the cost of 10.5 billion is compared to the financial minister's response to my query, but there's a much greater context, even though only the retreat that is certainly trying to fight and has been made some success. It is possible to take a completely different course than the current government, e.g. to educate a nation in which some of the loans were taken and for a very large number of students would not even be needed to borrow. All the loan costs would decrease as well as interest costs and, in effect, the government's cost of driving the loan on that basis. Disobediences that sometimes arise in return. At 10.5 billion cost, the crash costs. There are so many things to say that going on a basic advance that is not taken into account in regard to impairment or anything of the most positive steps of justice and rights, too, that it is basically simple by mathematics. If we examine the numbers we have seen in this matter, it would be very strange not to take that step to the full.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u106	A respectable president. It's fun to discuss this second time this winter. We took a special discussion on this matter in the end of January and there, as it were now, I feel that the basic question is whether an operation of this kind would be to reduce poverty, as if I were to shine through the debater's imagination. I think we can all be together that it matters. The question remains, Is this the most effective way to eliminate poverty? When we're talking about $1.12 billion. expenses - that is the number mentioned by the minister in January - this is not an understatement. Hence, after the January issue, it is surprising that we still have this process that distributes the money regardless of the need for anyone who does not fully use his personal discount. Of those 11.2 billion last year, e.g. 3 billion by 16 and 17 years of age. They may be low in income, but in the same way, they do not necessarily have the same expenses as older ones and have family members. Being poor during a certain period of time is not the same as being poor. I think 3 billion to 16 and 17 - year - olds would not work against poverty at all. Similarly, there are possible incentives that would have to be considered before coming, e.g. stimulates raising the basic pay of low income groups. Not only would it affect the groups that are well - meaning to mark more often than the women in the vast majority, it would not only affect their provisional income today, but would have progressive effects in old age, as it would likely not be paid paybacks of a paid personality discount and thus an enlarged space in the rights of old age. Is that enough? Then this too would dissipate the position of the home - working spouse of high - paying employees. We are constantly trying to reduce the incentive for people to disappear from a workforce because the economic motivation is not there. The bill suggests that these individuals, most of them, will be at home rather than in a job market. However, we have a system that could fully use these 11.2 billion in an efficient way so that they can turn back to people who live in poverty. We have, for example. a child - reform system that is long gone to the skin and needs to be revised from scratch so that the money will be placed into the hands of young people, family members, students who have little income. In this regard, a report prepared for BSRB last year can be cited comparing the child - welfare system in Iceland with the other northern countries, showing that there is an enormous opportunity to fix that system. Although only a fraction of the 11.2 billion here suggested to spread blindly over society, it would be pointed to that the groups most needed could do just as I think that all of us must agree, we could eliminate poverty. We could take these 11.2 billion and eliminate poverty on one board by means of a more pointed operation. I'm just afraid this bill isn't that procedure. If that is the case, if it is the conclusion of the committee that is now being handled, we can use this money better than through a personal discount.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u107	A respectable president. It surprises me a little bit. A senator considers this coin to be 16◯17 years of age who is starting their advanced education not to be the very means of retreating. A chance to pursue education is one of our most powerful devices in the struggle with poverty, starting at the beginning. We start at the beginning of the place where people will not miss that opportunity, and then we are taking a huge step in preventing poverty in the future. Of course, this does not rule out any other options. Like what? A senator points out that the child - reforming system is completely out of control, and in the context of microenergy assessment, there are many problems that could be done, perhaps without costing more. Starting with unfounded production prevents this problem that identifies the present system, a poverty trap. People are trapped in their inability to do nothing, for they will lose out before they can begin to pursue education or employment. They end up in low-paying jobs, where they get no more than they get in public progress through social security or any other. Without question, this is to be started with an irresistibly unsatisfied forward. Starting with the place where people first miss out on the opportunity to get out of poverty when they're starting their education, our most powerful tool is certainly in battle with poverty in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u108	A respectable president. I'm going to zoom in as long as I can. A senator said three words: Power is educated. We agree on that. We agree that one of the best ways for the next generation to do better than the first is that its level of education is as high as access to education. The situation, however, is not that all 163/4,17 - year - olds are suffering from parental deficiency. That is why I suspect that an unquestioning move to all of these individuals, costing 3 billion, will not be as useful as receiving the same amount of money to those who have just suffered poverty and have the highest level of education. They need support. It may be the Committee to find out because it is not part of the bill's report. There's no analysis that's behind this, but we're just taking it a little bit on the inside and feeling. This needs to be taken into consideration by a number of factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u109	A respectable president. Here is the fundamental difference between what is conditional or unreserved about certain issues. Can we find a solution where we could find in a very safe way that is not bound to any of these resources, not all 3 billion, but just some part of them or possibly all 3, rather, in a place where they really are needed? All systems are in the ground a bit defective, and creating conditions makes gaps. Therefore, it is so important to lay the foundation a little flat for all, regardless of their circumstances, regardless of their parents'status, or anything related to it. As soon as we begin to create conditions, we begin to create the gaps some may fall into. If we have the foundation that we can build on with certain conditions, people will never fall below the foundation. That's what it's all about after all, starting at least CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 inhibitors should be That's why it's a ideological presentation on the bill and that's why we're talking about it on those notes. That foundation is needed to make the gap more corrosive when we get to the point of the talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u110	A respectable president. There is no need to be in the form of this bill, to pass people a monthly check. That would be, for example. you can take 3 billion and offer free schools. There's a bit of college, study books, registrations and all that. You could take some of this money and make the nursery go free. That would be very helpful for young children. You can think of free school meals or free time for children. This is a general action that would probably cost less than 11.2 billion but would directly return to the individuals mentioned by the senator here. Like he said, we're just throwing up ideas. This needs to be analyzed, and 11.2 billion are money that can make a big difference. Therefore, it would be very boring to set up a system that would pump out 11.2 billion a year without bringing the desired results.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u111	President. I'm gonna be in a baby's face. I think it's such a fun discussion. However, many noticed and referred to the special discussions that were not so long ago that everyone saw through this experiment. We're just talking about a burger in here. This is the first step towards the burgers. The negative income tax of Miltons Friedmans's Milton Friedman is exactly the same thing. It's just being done through the tax system and in a different way than the civilian salary. The result, however, is the same as it is the first step toward doing so. Now I'm going to shoot at something. A senator in answer to me. What I find so interesting is that I have felt that those who are traditionally left - minded have a tendency to lean toward a vast degree of custody in their distrust that the individual can decide for himself what is best for him. Then you hear people say that they are afraid that we are giving money to people because the money is better spent offering free school or free time for children. I agree that it would be great to have free leisure time for kids and free high school, but we don't always know what's best for people in this room. Many studies have shown this, e.g. that when it comes to relief efforts in poor countries, people report rich countries: Hey, let's put the money in building this thing up, a school here, or a fountain of water here. Then it turns out that what the people needed was something completely different. When organizations decide to give people just money, and see what it does, the most wonderful things happen, things that no one would have thought of doing, and suddenly an entire village that is starting to thrive because the people got the money into their hands and made their own decisions about what they were going to defend them. The people were entrusted with putting their money in something that was important to them and society all. [[The president calls.]] That's what this is about, that's what civil pay and a negative income tax and character is all about, to trust people to use it in a way that helps them to thrive.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u112	A respectable president. We can naturally call it anything, but I don't think being premeditated is wanting the money to go to eradicate poverty. [[Up front.]] Of the 11.2 billion who would run out of a treasure, this bill would be a law, we just don't know if it would. There's an analysis. So that the senator is not concerned that I am developing some position myself, I would like to point out a report prepared for the BSRB. The payers'organizations speak for improved child - reform systems, they speak for cutting down in public service, and they refer to the state's staging and supporting groups that need assistance. 11.2 billion would be good for cleaning it up solid. Then we'll reach all the groups listed in the report. The Senator calls being preconceived to listen to an analysis from the labor movement, but I just call it reason. [[I didn't say that.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u113	President. No, of course, I support the recovery of the child - welfare system, which is finalized, is ridiculous how much improvement starts with low incomes. It has to be fixed. It's a new approach, it's a new thought, but it's not gonna be based on air. This is a conversation that has taken place for hundreds of years. Many studies have been carried out and already there are. A senator speaks of a project that we do not know will work, but a number of research supports the restoration of this project. There's savings in the health system, savings in the social system, saving in the defense system, and like my colleague, a vagrant. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson said before this is spent in the drop of students. Of course, I agree that there is something to be done about it, so I talked about it in my speech that before going into some sort of change, we would have to find a good way to measure results. That's something we do all too little of when we're trying new things. We change the law and do something new, but there's nobody to measure the results, there's no follow-up, and we don't know if it's working or not. It must be done, but we must not hesitate to try a new approach and see how it works. I am the spokesman for finding new systems and ways that serve our interests and our community more fully. I feel that conditions and impairments in the present system are not working for us. We see it only in poverty that thrives here. We haven't been able to pull back, and I suggest we try something new. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u114	A respectable president. It's not something I'm starting to invent that we don't know if this operation is going to work. It's just a simple indication that nowhere in this document is what this is going to do. This has not been reported, as the senator said. They need to know how this will be used to eradicate poverty. They need to know how this spreads into groups, if this results in those who need it. Then, as I mentioned in my opening speech, the sex friendship needs to be diagnosed, whether this experiment would be to keep women's low - income groups under control, whether this would continue outside the local labour market for women who would otherwise be overworked to benefit their home. This evaluation must take place before we take this matter for any further payment, and I expect the committee will do it all very thoroughly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u115	Mr. President. I would like to recommend an interpretation resolution on the collection of information on the distribution of the work. I'm going to start by reviewing what this conclusion means. The motion says so, with the permission of the president: ▪ The General concluded to hide prime minister on behalf of the government to appoint a group of workers who must be assigned to make proposals for needed legal adjustments to collect and processing information on the geographical distribution of work and the definition of the role and responsibility of the relevant bodies. The staff will be appointed representatives of the Department of Professional Road and Development, the Department of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, and the Department of Transport and the Ministry of Transport, as well as the representatives of the Iceland Habitat, Labour Services, Branch Committee, and other professionals at the assemblies and conventions. The proposal that was prepared for some point also stipulates the presentation of proposals for the General Assembly on January 1, 2021, which is the same as timing. I'm assuming there's some deadline to make that happen in the case of a committee. The purpose of this proposal is to enable the National Habitat of Iceland to collect data on national distribution. At the time of work data, Iceland seems to have broken legs compared to other European and North America countries. A national registry contains information on people's legal home and their analysis of data can provide information on how to distribute the population. However, information on distribution is missing, as well as information on household and work travel patterns. Detailed data on these issues must be one of the reasons for careful decision-making, e.g. for road transport and urban development. There is a considerable demand for such data among professionals and stakeholders. The available data are insufficient because the number of people working in a designated rural society cannot be accurately determined how many people live in one community but work in another, and how much percentage lives in a certain distance from home. Instead, professionals here need to use indirect methods to plan answers to these questions. For example, a square - meter job house has been used, and it has then been extrapolated to the number of jobs with its own defect. In other cases, people have used phone records or have contacted specific companies directly to provide information on the location of the job. One of the reasons for the position as it is that in the company file of the head of the company, all employees of the enterprise are listed at the centre of the enterprise, i.e. record a social legal home regardless of whether the company is running a job post in other rural areas or even within the local community for larger and larger rural areas. They need information on their actual location and, as I said, the key to identifying the state of their employment within a certain area, rural society, or part of the country. For example, the work of hotel workers is regularly registered in the capital area, at the company's headquarters, even though they are employed in a work station in the country. The same story is that of staff registration. We can do a good example of an oil company with headquarters in Kopavogur, while operating stations all over the country. As a result of this situation, we may overevaluate the number of jobs in the capital area, but the region is considered to be worse than it should be done if registered at the work station where they are employed. It is certain that there is considerable benefit by being able to obtain reliable and detailed information for analysis rather than based on any interpolation or strategy. First, it would save considerable time and cost of individual data collection and processing, and second, it would make it easier to compare with other countries that are often useful and third, such data collection would contribute to more careful policy-making and decision-making and prevent conflict between parties, but it can easily occur today to professionals who are even working together in a number of jobs in a different area. Traffic contractors are a large part of the public's overall investments. For example, the planned development of high transport workers in connection with transport agreements in the capital area, including the urban line, is now planned, although it is intended, and hopefully will become a reality, the structure of transport workers elsewhere. To improve the priority of these investments, accurately predict potential stress points, ensure increased traffic flow, etc. It is very important to have information about the main destination in the transport system, and it is quite equal in the workplace. At the same time, this information would be used in community research, labour market research, and other community-based research and the implementation of national, national, follow-up, and the development of the decision-to-be as well as the community transport organization throughout the country. This information can be used by people on the market as well as by decision-making on the location of all kinds of services, e.g. at restaurants, shops, and other services that are right, normal, and important to be around people's homes and main workplaces. If we look further, it is desirable to be able to collect national information about similar hot areas, e.g. schools, accommodations, clinics, swimming pools, and other places that are known to follow regularly. However, it is well assigned to this project only, as the above list of people we consider to be appropriate in this regard, so the point I consider is most likely better to do in the next steps than to highlight national information about the workplace at the first time. Transporters of this proposal suggest that the condemned neighboring countries of Iceland will be taken into account when it comes to the work and proposal of the staff. In Denmark, for example, a company record is kept outside the registration of job stations and the number of workers at each job station, while the dance firm then handles further processing of the data collected. This is also suggested that when this information is available, it will be released free to open and readable formats and updated to a minimum annually. It is suggested that the core data be made public and accessible, although it is of course that there will be extra protection. An open format refers to a format that does not require access to a specialized software to be used. In addition, it is possible to use the data itself, work with them, and then continue to sell them without special authority from the original source that they combine and control. Mr. President. Information on the geographical distribution of workers could be useful to professionals whose activities, or to law, work on investments and decision-making in the area of transportation and urban development. For example, there is Vega, Based Institute, Bus, Haggis, rural, national, university, and counseling companies. If this proposal is approved, it could also contribute to the accuracy of these and other parties'role as a nation of Icelandic people. Mr. President. I've completed my review, but at the end, I'd like to mention that this proposal is much more of the members of the Environment and Transport Committee, i.e. In addition to me, Bergþór Ólason, the Goddjónjónsson of Brjánsson, Hjaltason Gauti und, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, Vilhjálmur Árnason, and Began Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, an officer of the Committee. Also associate are Ingi In Jónsson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir Valdimarsson, Resa Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryjolfsdótsdótir, Þorsteinn K. Gunnarsdóttir, and Víglundsson. I am aware that this is a fairly large project. Therefore, the proposal does not include a very precise implementation of goals other than that of those who agree to take this assignment as part of a team. It may well be that it seems right to add partners to that group. I don't think it's right to shrink or pull someone out. More suggestions on how to work as a group may be provided may be provided. Again, I point out that this is an example among our neighbors. I'm here to finish by requesting that the case be referred to a quick and safe treatment of the Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u116	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill from the people's Tracks on the Change of Authorism, No. 73/1972, with subsequent changes (human). Besides me, Inga Sæland Transporter of the bill. In 1st. says: ▪ In the sense that it will be necessary for use, or for technical reasons, at 1 mgr. 13th par. The law will fall away. Two. says: ▪ This law already comes into effect. The design of a monument protects its design and protects it from the principles of the Author's code. However, care must be taken not to the extent possible to protect the right of the construction owner. Present - day rules place great restrictions on landowners'authority to make changes in their own housing. 13th. Authorized songs are referred to as being only allowed to make changes without author's consent if necessary for use or for technical reasons. When monumental design is designed, the right to design is not about self-management. That privilege can be respected without severely limiting the authority of the workers. The design of images, drawings, and computer data can be preserved and made sure that they are not lost. Then you can watch that the design is not new without permission. However, when this design is new, it does not require that there be any forms of construction. It is not required when performing a music project that it can be moved only with the instruments specified by its author or in that tone. So here it is suggested that if you change the structure, you no longer have to seek the author's consent. Thus, workers can change them without having to seek the approval of others. The original design is still protected. Thus, the vast limits the law places on the rights of the owners of workers without overstepping the overcrowding of the man - made workers. There's a suggestion to change certain laws about monuments that are necessary. It has become and is still becoming a controversy over both old and modern structures, since it is designed to prevent its use. This is especially true of those who suffer from disability. It may not be suitable for another group, but it differs from the fact that construction is available in one group of disabled people. Thus, gaps both are needed that often require severe brain fragility. The most important thing is a positive attitude, and it all begins, but it is not enough if the law says that the author, architect, or others can just say no. Unfortunately, it has often been said that the simple structure, e.g. A pool or another athlete, even a museum, has caused arguments and difficulties in obtaining access to disabled persons who are needed, as well as for safety reasons. We have monuments in swimming pools and elsewhere that show that certain designs can cause disaster. When it is discovered that the design of the person needs to be changed to prevent an accident, it may arise that the designer of the architects, whose authorises simply deny that change. It's shocking that the situation is that way. We must also realize that the design of workers requires consideration for the differences in our disability. It also includes those with visual acuity or those who are blind. Therefore, we need to be open - minded and make sure that those needing and asking for workers to be changed for safety and also make sure that they can walk in homes or public institutions without risking injury. In the 9th. The United Nations Convention states that access is permissible to disabled persons by permission of presidents: The Member States shall take appropriate measures to enable disabled people to live their own lives and to have a full share in all aspects of life, i.e. The measures aimed at ensuring the disabled access to the material environment [...] of the aforementioned measures, which should include efforts to eliminate and eliminate barriers and barriers that inhibit access, should include: a) construction, road, transportation, and other facilities within the doors, including schools, housing, health care, and workplace This simply tells us that those who need to change their home or publicly have the right to change it and design it according to their needs. It should be designed for people rather than for them to have access to them to cause harm or to have access to them. We have a Housing and Managing Institute, and we have learned that as a result, there is a new building and general access to carpentry, a new design, with the design so cool, taking into account everything, cool ramps for wheelchairs, cool access to wheelchair disableds, and you've hardly seen a better design - but the fact is, when the person comes in the wheelchair and is going to take advantage of this wonderful design is not possible. Why would that be? Because they forgot to bring and include the disabled person on the basis of whether this fancy design could be used. It has come to light that the design is wrong, tall, and width wrong, all wrong; predators and very impressive designs, but it does not work. What does this tell us about Homeland and Mansicults and local patrols? They show up, but they bring someone who's supposed to use the other construction in this way and let him take it out? No, it's just a stamp and a deal. If this is to be changed, it may be a predator design, and it is to be changed, the architect can say no, although it cannot be used. This shows that we are being shortsighted and how strange the law is that not long ago we have done something about it. We can also take as an example what we have seen; people have bought older homes and intend to make significant changes in them; they are just a normal home; the architect says no, except by such costs perhaps or just doesn't want them changed. What, then, have humans done? They've only brought a tomb and torn the house to the ground. They can, and then they can build a new one. Imagine the waste, that there may have to be some types of monuments that are in order to destroy, only changes need to be made, but it must be destroyed to the ground just to get what is needed to make the new home possible in the way the owner wants to do. Then we also find amazing designs in shopping halls, there may be two entrances in that business house, one with a ramp for wheelchairs, and what happens to them? In that case, the entrance may have been designed for that door, and the access may have been taken away. They're also going further, and it's approved. What's strange about this is that it can be approved. Then you come into that store, where the person in a wheelchair is going to go, where there is a barbed ring around the toilet, and that is the ring that the person needs to be able to perform inside. A man is far beyond the walls, far outside the toilet, and there is no chance for the individual to take advantage of the situation there. This shows us black and white that we need to change these laws. I say for my part that I really hope that the council changes these laws. I say it's necessary. We're supposed to make things work, but unfortunately, there is no safety net for the bioavailability of motor disasters in structuralism, health care, and fire control. They're supposed to make sure it's okay, but it's not. It's kind of the scariest thing about this, it's like deliberately and deliberately being a shrug. I think that the reason we've frequently come across is because they ask for us without us, that decisions are taken without them. They cannot be included, they are not asked, and full - health individuals take the situation outside a healthy person, and they forget completely, whether deliberately or unintentionally, to include individuals or to follow the standards of burn control and health care that they are supposed to follow. We've got a law on Housing and Civilization Institute and a code of access. They are clear, but we must also ask, Why is it not applied? This isn't a big change. 13th. An author's song says the word, with the permission of a president: ▪ Now that manpower has been protected by the rules of architecture, its owner is all but allowed to change it without the author's consent, in the sense that it will be necessary for its use or for technical reasons. There is no need for technical and technical terms to be stretchable. As a result, these issues can be fought all the time. Let's take this out and allow changes in homes and other areas where necessary, especially in the case of accidents, and in the availability of access to wheelchairs, is visual acuity, or is actually hurt because these people have the right to perform in their homes, as well as the right to be designed, so that they do not harm or control their bioavailability.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u117	A respectable president. I don't disagree. A senator in any of the things I heard him talk about. I was just so shocked by my understanding of what he was saying that I felt compelled to come here to be perfectly clear. I know why. A senator's use of these pieces of penalties directly helps to prevent the change in housing to meet the needs of disabled people?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u118	A respectable president. I appreciate Mr. Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson's son for the question. The answer is: Not once, not twice, not threes, but many times, unfortunately. We are in such a society that unfortunately the design is so that much of the ignoring of the access of disabled is ignored. We can use simple examples of how things work. We can look across the street at the agency's residence. I don't know if they have access to the disabled, but it hasn't been. There's a lot of stairs up there. They're working on it, it's an old house that's probably protected as an old building or something. There are cases like this all over town. These are mild cases. The other cases are much worse because, despite the dangers of accidents, people have been shown to have been hurt over and over again. It causes controversy with architects, and this is a serious matter. I just come up because I can't help but be shocked that we can create this system. In this context, we also forget that architects not only have life - giving power of denial but also 70 years after their death still have a negative influence.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u119	A respectable president. I put myself on the rosary to declare the support of this case, and I'm going over, hopefully not for 15 minutes of interest, but in some matter of authorship and how it can become available to other people's rights and society in its entirety. But now I don't think my speech is great, compared with the ones we heard before. I have to say, I'm going to face a shock. paritaprevir Therefore, the Guðmundur of Ingi, the son of Kristinsson, are to be authorized, like a boy. A senator described it here, stands in the way of an improvement or adjustment in housing to meet the needs of disabled people. It's crazy to me so I can't use a stronger word. Hv. A senator did a fine job of doing it, and I'm going to let myself do it again unless I have to say that I didn't know, and I'm kind of ashamed that I didn't catch it before because it's quite unbelievable. Then I go out into what I was going to discuss, and it is an author's right in just a larger sense. The right to master the design of architects, a so - called architecture, is understandable in this respect. Before I begin to list the arguments I would like to enumerate to this bill in particular, I would like to remind you that the first sentence in Porrata's policy of authorship is that authors have the right to profit from their work, so here is not a man who is against author rights and is not for a class that is against the author's rights. The way it works, however, matters. It is important that authorial rights do not conflict with others'rights, including the right of property. Then I get a little more to the content. Opacity is a form of property. It's all science, it's about the right of an author. On the other hand, sometimes it seems that he is more than just the standard of possession, and that is what I see in the abduction suggested here, that someone designs a house, he owns the design, he owns the design, well, then somebody buys the house, or someone builds the house, and then the person has to own the house. The fact that the owner of the building cannot change it, not even to prevent accidents, or to make it available to disabled people, must go to the householder's property rights. This, of course, is not the only case in which we see the rights of one another's rights. Then we need to be clear whatever the underlying prince's point is that we're trying to keep it honorable. There are other examples of this and perhaps more common today that you see it in technical matters. One example is what is called DRM, in the English Digital Rights Management. I just don't know the Icelandic translation or remember it at least. Could not connect to torrent %1. It involves buying legal rights for use, and that is a monopoly, and then the person can do nothing about it except the person who sold it allows him to repair it. What is more serious is if a person buys a device, e.g. Video devices that have DRM technology in them to make sure the DRM technology works. Let's say I own the video game because I bought it. How did one learn to fix a video set in the old days? Yes, you did. You opened them up and you experimented with them. It's just like software today, just like computers today, you want to open up your devices, mess with them, learn something from them, and turn something into something. It's exciting and fun. It is beneficial and informative. Today's laws are not allowed. They must not be altered to the effect of this DRM technology. We have placed all sorts of restrictions on the rights of owned devices and bits of information such as entertainment or information-based products to protect the rights of property or the possession of any other person who has sold it to its consumer. There's a few contradictions, a respectable president. If I buy myself a video recorder, a computer, a car, or anything, of course I can mess with that device any way I like. If it doesn't match someone else's business model--boo, it's just their problem. The person must be so pleased to find a business model that matches my property, that which must belong to me. Like justice in general, things are not quite the simple thing to say that this logic can be overcome in exactly all situations, buying, or all the rights to possess. This is to show that the importance of the right of possession cannot simply be extended and therefore, as part of the sacred distribution of property in the form of ideas and information. You can go further, you can talk about how, for example. a follow-up of a set process of authorship can be contrary to freedom of expression and privacy. Not long ago, listening to all Internet connections in Iceland was proposed to keep people from breaking writers' weight. That idea arose in a certain community's grasp of knowledge when the Internet was new and people did not know what it was and what it was suggesting. Likewise today, it is very popular to come up with ideas that all webs that have, and so many users, should pass through all the content and filter out what has not been demonstrated to be met by some authorly stable condition. This will prevent people from using e.g. other material to practice freedom of expression, as an example by quotations, to quote something that is authorized. When someone proposes to change the process of authorial rights or to enforce it in some other way, one of the first predictions of doom is that if one is allowed or not forbidden or done, the entire art industry will collapse and all will go to hell. This certainly is wrong, Mr. Honorable President. That's what they said when the plates came, everyone was supposed to stop playing. That's what they said when they were made of tape, tape, whatever you call them, then suddenly no one was to publish anything. Those predictions never came true. They never come true and have never been fulfilled. When the Internet arrived, CDs were to be stopped. Okay, all right, well, they stopped publishing CDs but it's also all right because there's a better way to spread music, though the old business model has gone out into the ocean and can never come back. There's not a shortage of music today, though. It is not as if there is a lack of movies or a lack of entertainment. The market's changing, and it can change, like, really, really, really, really, really fast. No wonder a business model has to change very fast too, and it can be painful. It can cause earthquakes in a particular industry, e.g. Movie industry or music industry. I fully understand that, but as I have mentioned several times before, the person here is not really a writer's property. I know how to make music, I can write lyrics, give talks, and make software. This is about The only thing I have learned from some skill in my life. It's all something that has a lot to do with writers. My father is a silent man, not that this is necessarily relevant, and my mother is a moviemaker. They work as writers. I'm not saying that I was raised in a studio, but I was very busy with studios and a lot about my parents'work during my childhood, so I don't want these people I met in my childhood to be out of work. I don't want my parents out of work and I don't want to be out of work myself. You just come across the traditional procedure of authory, regardless of how it affects other people's rights that he is not holy and must not be. Its export is not sacred, and the business models based on certain technical boundaries are not sacred either. Selling music in the form of CDs is not sacred. Selling it in the form of Spotify or Netflix is not sacred either. This technology may even need to be replaced by something else. That's just the way life is in a society that changes, matures, develops. In a free society, no one can simply expect to live off the same business model for life, no matter what the rest of his life. That's what's pulling me into it. 12th p.m. We're out of Suðvest. "The Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, mentioned earlier, is not only during the lifetime of the author but for 70 years after his death, which my mind knows is completely crazy. Actually, I can't better see than it was to think that big companies with great financial interests can continue to enjoy authors of long dead writers who can continue to make lots of money, not for the author, but for themselves and the companies who have the distribution rights to Mikka Mouse from 1980 or anything. I just throw in a year of randomity. This company doesn't think I have the right to have the right to create more of it or distribute a part of what has become part of our culture. Imagine that the Bible was still under the protection of an author's rights. Would it be good for a Bible sale? What if these Viking stories were still of authorship? It wouldn't be good, it'd be better to have it free. We have the right to try to create some business model for writers, if not to enforce them by some fair principle which I remind of the first instance of Pirata's policy, and prepare the rest of its policy. My message here is that we should not view the authorly as sacred. We should not view his appointments as sacred. We should not view our business model as sacred. This matter is emphasized to me that at times, when it comes to authoritarian rights, we may get involved with obvious developments, such as changes in housing to meet the needs of disabled people. Then he's lost. I think that most people would agree with that after all. I'm sure, however, that the Independence Party can find a number of technical ways of doing this, e.g. starting at the wrong end, or whatever he uses as a false reason for opposing the ruling side that day. It remains that we know exactly what is wrong in the problem as well as what is wrong. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson described. We know that, and it doesn't take any legal complications to understand it. We have a home and a disabled person who needs to use it. It must not be changed for the disabled person to use it. We know this is wrong. There's something wrong about this, and it's obvious. It doesn't take any legal knowledge to see it. There is no need for philosophical speculation on the rights of possession, either. In the end, I just want to thank you. Théoden Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson and Inga Sæland Land for providing the bill. I would have been involved in this case myself if I had been seeking it. This is not criticism, it is unusual that groups would prefer to make themselves a matter rather than look for partners. That's unusual, and we're doing it ourselves in The Piranha. I can't wait to see the case on a committee that I expect to become a full-scale educational committee, can I? I'm not quite sure of that, a respectable president. I hope so, but regardless of that, I hope that the case will be successful, and I look forward to seeing it coming out of a committee that I really expect it to.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u120	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson before the speech. I think I'm compelled to come up and cross 43 gr. Entitled by the President's permission of a verb: ▪ The Court of Despair stays until 70 years later after the death of the author. It is now a task of law 7. record and then count out a 70 - year period from next year after the death of the longest - lived author. If there are more than one. The heiress can keep this up. Like what? A senator pointed out, however, that we have one problem in this context too. Today, we are extremely busy preserving old houses, toils, and other old buildings. All these old buildings are unacceptable to the disabled. This conflict with law, and you often think, " Wait, were these houses designed for people, or were they designed as museums? ' We always forget that we have to think that all constructions, housing, and so forth, are designed for people and should be available to all. Do I not agree with the senator? I also agree that the writers are to be paid for their actions and are not to be entitled to them above the grave and death. Nor do they have the right to prevent the necessary adjustments so that people can use them and especially in the context of not causing damage or restricting access.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u121	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator, but a few years ago, a great deal of talk was made about extending the author's weight from 70 years to 90 years after his death. Where did the pressure come from? Did he come from the poor author who needed more money because he could not get paid for his work? No, it was big companies that make up such materials as Disney films based on old stories where the handwriting was falling out. Then he had to be extended so that the companies that came to the original person and the original concept could keep control of the material, not those who were not born when the project was first published, could maintain control over the material. This is the image that will soon be drawn when looking at the pressure behind always putting the writers' rights of culture, expression freedom, privacy, or other people's property. This comes from some sources where money - rich people profit greatly from having the patenting of certain ideals. They want to maintain their authority in order to maintain their financial resources. I understand the goal, I just don't think it's fair or sensible. Hv. A senator went into museums or cultural treasures or what to say. Certain things that are composed of authors at one time become part of our culture, such as. Happy birthday to you Happy birthday to you At some point, it's no longer just the one who wrote it, it's become the property of all of us in any way. Let's say like a jacket style or whatever, you can quite invent a new one as a designer, but at some point he's become part of the community. Where that dot is unclear, but it also says a little about the nature of writers, and how we cannot look at it as hard as our property in the sense of what it means to own a house. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u122	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. I think we've come to agree that the little bilge that I propose to change makes it that in itself we should take up the whole law and revise it from scratch. I love reading those songs, and I've been staring myself through them a few times. They are quite remarkable, especially those 70 years after death. I say for my part that I can't reach it. I don't understand, and I think it's old. Especially in this context, we also have to make sure that we are - I'm going to take a simple example. I live in an apartment and wondered if I could still live in it if I had a wheelchair. Today I'd say, "No, I can't. Can I change it? I say no, I can't because the architect would be too expensive. What, then, is the simplest? They're moving and trying to find an apartment that is accessible. It's not supposed to be like this. We're supposed to make sure it's not like this in prax. Hv. A senator would have liked to be involved in this case, and I would surely have liked to bring him along, but this went in quickly. I drove the matter forward in a flash because when I came across a serious issue in the context that basically caused damage, I was able to create a serious threat to the narrow - minded view that it is not possible to benefit everyone, especially in the case of an accident. That's a very serious matter to me, and that's why I quickly submitted the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u123	A respectable president. I have nothing more to add than to thank you. A senator again for presenting the matter. I can see that he made such an effort. I'd like to suggest that there are three cases that are going on from us Pirates, which we now made as a council, but maybe next time we'll ask everyone, in the fall council or something. There is no criticism in any way. A senator did not ask others to join him. It is his self - righteous course, and nothing about it. I'm glad to talk to more people at the council who have the nerve to question the authority of the authors. It has decided a taboo, though a bit radical, a bit anarkic, which, of course, it is not. There are no worse insults for senators and policies. I'm just thanking you for the case. Now I'm getting to the President's chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u124	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis of investment restrictions in the processing of fossil fuels. Predicting the future is often difficult, but not always. We can, for example. fasting that within a long period of time, fossil fuels, coal, oil, and gas will have been replaced by green energy. So we can prophesy, not just because the world's kingdoms are going in that direction, but because it's not really another thing to do if we want to stop climate change from being man - made. In recent years, there has been a very positive development in the climate discussion. The public will do, e.g. Rich demands for the government. This reflects that by the beginning of the year, Gallup's environmental survey revealed that 60% of respondents are unhappy with government efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We need to do better here. The same common people are also the consumers on whom the professional life depends. Naturally, public opinion has spread on the job life, and it is evident that over 100 companies and institutions have signed the European Commission Declaration of the climate, Festus and Reykjavíkurburg, a joint declaration of targeted action on climate matters. At that time, most of the larger workplaces have set up a social responsibility policy. The fact is, professionally, that this is a good business. To be competitive for the future, a growing emphasis on sustainable and social responsibilities must be given. Thus companies are better off with consumers than they are with employees who want to work for responsible companies and governments who will in the coming years inevitably have to put up a regular work against any contaminated activity. Today, I would like to use this suggestion to focus our eyes on one part of our business life that could add huge weights to the scales, the financial system. The proposal suggests that financial and economic ministers, in collaboration with Environment and Resource Ministers and Professionalhaustical Ministers, ship a team of experts in the field of sustainable development and investments, which are aimed at examining and providing suggestions for implementation of the ban on investments in companies associated with the implementation of fossil fuels, which increase greenhouse gas emissions. The ban takes the least out of public and pension investments, but it also involves the investments of other financial companies. It is expected that the minister will have something more rapid and will submit a report to the General with the results of his work group in the autumn months 2020, following the report for the bill or the necessary changes to come no later than the 151th legislature, the next. Along with the members of the council here, Friðbjörg Fräldur, Elíasdóttir of Elias, Trausti Trali Guðmundsson, Guðmundur and Andri Thorsson, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Logi Einar Einarsson, Oddný Harðardóttir Hardnessdóttir and Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynlfótir. Let's take a look at the pension fund, our common beach egg. Their possessions include some 5,000 billion dollars. But whose money is this? That's exactly what the public calls for action. The way the pension fund invests is not only affecting private funds, their economic survival, when they reach retirement years, but it can directly affect the decision made by the pension fund on investments. According to the laws of pension today, they also have. setting moral standards for molding investment policy. Sadly, the Lawgiver's will is just too vague in that lyrics. It is difficult to interpret the letter of the law and the documents of the case when it was settled at the council, for example. choosing investments because they have a positive influence on climate matters Somehow, a situation like that today may seem as though it were a moral attitude to shift an investment from a industry that is covering the earth toward disaster, but it probably has to be taken in particular by law. Furthermore, the government's surveillance and perspective on this investment policy and the moral standards of the Pension Fund are in a lot of damages, as the answers to two financial ministers to my inquirys, as outlined in the report of the proposal, have been made. All right, but what about just asking the money yourself? Its efforts were launched last year by the Land Protection and Age, a society of sustainability and democracy. It is fun to say that the answers we have received are often vague but suggest that it is difficult to exclude indirectly the possession of the pension fund, e.g. Through a foreign stock fund. Here's something you can get around and fix. Of course, pension and other financial companies have a certain interest requirement, but the core of investors'interest in the coming years should be climate goals, not just because they have a moral right to fight climate change but because they also guarantee better profits. The world has to go toward the green future. A company that is not part of that green vision will eventually open up the latrines. It has companies linked to the processing of fossil fuels the clearest example of investments for which long-term investors should avoid such a hot fire. What is achieved by my agreement with this proposal is simply that governments support financial companies to speed up the economic transitions that will inevitably occur in the next few years and decades. Thus, the Icelandic pension system, and preferably the entire financial system, can take a moral stand for the future of its owners and, at the same time, be with the first ones who make full use of the green investments that will become the driving force for the economy in the next few years. Mr. President. I suggest after this first siege. for the proposal it goes to the Economic and Business Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u125	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a resolution on the search for a reliable beach transport. My associates are Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Ísleifsson Isleifsson Sigurður Páll Jónsson, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Oddný G. Harðardóttir and Trausti Traus Guðmundsson. We suggest that the General conclude to hide transport and local government officials to have the efficiency of holding two coastal transport ships to transport the land with the aim of reducing highway freight transport and thus reducing road erosions. The evaluation will include considered the possibility of using ships for waste and as rescue ships in emergency situations. At the same time, there will be a consideration of the potential attendance of countries and communities on such projects. The Secretary of Staff and Transport will submit a report to the General's review no later than October 1st, 2020. The suggestion is April 1, but I expect the committee to change the date. I'm going to review the accompanying report, a respectable president. The aim of the proposal is to examine coastal transport as a practical and environmental option in freight transport so that heavy road transport can be transported. With increasing traffic, road erosion has increased significantly, with the highest weight of heavy transport being reached. The roads of the country are often torn apart by heavy automobiles. Heavy travel breaks down the road layer, resulting in a reduced weight tolerance and increased need for maintenance. The effect of weight is thought to have a fourth power effect on the breakdown of roads, which means that the weight of a tox of 10 ton has 10,000 times greater effect on the degradation rate than the 1 ton. Coastal cruises would be more modern and environmental than land transport, where two well - equipped ships that sail around the country, one clockwise and the other anti-clockwise, in a weekly and two-week program, will release less carbon dioxide than is released by land transfer. The hardware could have been partly or completely powered by eco-friendly fuels, e.g. Nature gas, like estimate. The ships that would be used would have to meet the highest safety requirements and be prepared for two strong Azimuth-lots with two massive sidebars, put up to 25 yards per second, and have full control in such situations, including to get into small ports under difficult conditions. With such a power of power, the power of the ships would be about 80 tons. One of the biggest and most challenging problems in Iceland in the immediate future is transport, disposal, and waste disposal. The total amount of waste is over 1 million tons per year, but considering the development of recent years, the transport of wastes to recycling, exporting, or incineration of waste may be expected to increase. Although the target for recycling and recycling of waste targets is met, it can be expected that there will always be a need to dispose of all waste in other ways, such as incineration or incineration. In Iceland, all waste disposal is expected to be stopped within a few years. Therefore, there are only two options, moving waste waste volumes to wastelands for disposal, or building here an appropriate sized perfect waste power plant for waste incineration. Only one incineration on the land meets the minimum requirements for such activities. Its efficiency is about 12,300 tons a year, but it is estimated that this is about to be a total of 80,000,100,000 tons of waste for the incineration of the remaining domestic waste, which will have to be replaced and recycled. Coastal cruises may play a key role in carrying waste from ports around the country for disposal. With a resurgence of a beach trip, most of the land could be moved, i.e. anything more than fresh products, eco-efficiency, and a less expensive route to the sea. What type of industrial production, habitats, and raw materials could be removed from the roads of the country, moving with seafaring, thus reducing carbon tracks and fuel waste. There is a good chance that sea transport would be far less expensive than land transport. Thus, the resurgence of coastal transport could have a direct impact on the survival of households and companies across the country. In this regard, special waterfronts need to be checked on coastal ships, but now they are far beyond the cost of land transport. Coastal cruises, therefore, could be a practical option, both for environmental and financial reasons. There are more options on the business of two coastal ships than they could have been. use as additional security for seafarers and populations in rural areas. The benefits of preparing a beach cruise ship with a powerful fire extinguisher on a deck, ready for tow through a canal at the bottom of a ship, a position for large numbers of people on board because of natural disasters, and a helicopter and a fuel tank for helicopters. It would be a big security issue for seafarers and local residents to ports that now have little or no connection with one another if a ship was available on the ever - to - be cruises throughout the country all day long, especially when adverse weather rages rages and cannot be dealt with by flying or by car. Transporters have not considered the design of coastal ships, but they believe that government and private cooperation would be the most practical option. The project would then be cooperated with Member States and companies and/or individuals with knowledge of coastal transport and would be offered as PPP projects, i.e. public private partnership. Therefore, to make a special examination of such projects, transporters are to be arranged for the arrival of their local and rural communities. Transporters suggest that coastal transport will already be considered as a future solution in the majority of the transport areas around the country, with related savings and lower carbon emissions, and that the results of this option will be submitted no later than October 1, 2020, as previously stated. Finally, I suggest that this council decree be referred to. Environment and Transport Committee to handle the situation. Hopefully, it will be handled quickly and carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u126	Mr. President. I'm going to tear down only two changes that I think are important in all of this, on the other hand, the development of a shiplike structure that we've watched, we who've been tracking ship fishing for even decades. Of course, it turns to the altered design of ships that makes pricing and deduction much more efficient and easier than before. Clearly, this trend continues. The other thing about the energy exchange in the factory. Clearly, in the future there will be more energy available than oil. We are both looking to hydrogen and alcohol, such as methadone, both for use in conventional shipping fuels and for machines that go only to the level of alcohol. There's an excellent line for energy exchange in all types of exports, including transport transport output. Such a trend, for example. For a ship, there's one of the things I was going to mention. The other is a fine word for advantage. In modern times, there is no longer just some financial issue. There are other factors. Economicity has become two, threefold, or even multiple. I'd like to mention some things. Hv. porter, Ásmundur Friðriksson, went over even Attraction. It is obvious that it is very practical to reduce road stress through a bound discrepane that is driven mainly by such transport. I'm going to mention the air pollution because it's also a complex one. We're talking about waste pollution and sulphur compounds, all over oil. Although black oil may no longer be allowed to burn within the weekend, there is still the value of sulphur in a standard other oil that is used on a ship. And, of course, there are the carbon gases that we're trying to reduce emissions. Finally, there are other air pollutions, such as nitrogen. In shipping transport, the fact is that per cubic meter of transport is less pollution of the materials I just listed than for trucks with hundreds of horsepowers that continue to drive only tens of tons of transport. I would also like to mention the lower cost of operating in general per cubic meter transport for ships against such trucks. Finally, I'd like to say one more thing that matters, and it's safe. The fact is that while we have large amounts of shiny car drivers driving the trolls along the roads, there is increased safety in reducing them or reducing the pressure on the road, reducing the stress of traffic, reducing the number of accidents, whether on them, the drivers, and the cars. In any case, a heavy journey through the roads is important to security. When this is said, it is quite clear that land transport will always be time-dependent. Since these supplies need time and must speed up their supply or transport, this transport sector will eventually contain trucks to some extent, air transport to some extent, and so on, and need to be carefully reviewed, coastal cruises. To say this, I give support to the donation and further political treatment of this case and to thank the party and the traveling overseer himself, the chief of the team for cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u127	A respectable president. In the beginning, I'd like to say thank you. A traveler, Ásmundur Friðriksson, for bringing us into the council this fine proposal. I think she's good. This is a great deal of interest to all who make the sea and rural areas around the country, not just individuals and families, but to the business and businesses who face high costs because they have to find resources, often far away. I'm glad that the case has been delivered by seven different sources. The members of the assembly, including the carrier, are among them, and I am flattered to be among them. Coastal cruises have been practiced in the lives of elderly people in Iceland. Travel and transport were the river of transportation and transport long after centuries and have been a prominent part of our transport system in Iceland all around the country until the last few years, but it actually ended in 2004 when Iceland's Eimship Society laid its last coastal vessel. Samships had stopped moving four years earlier, and the government's design, the unique phenomenon, ended in 1992. What would cause the land to be completely deported? Of course, there are a few explanations. Among them are road reforms, increased car ownership, and increased ability to transport goods and people's land route. These factors became competitive at sea transport, as well as altered employment practices, and diminished rural cores in the region. It cannot be denied that trade and business practices have changed very much, the demand to get goods at the same time that markets in the country wanted to reduce their supply, and they were entrusted with rapid shipments from central supplies. Then there is the requirement to get things quickly, not after a week when the ship arrives, but quickly. And it's also about getting fresh products, groceries, fruit, vegetables, all of this. Part of this is also the fish industry. The invention of fish markets called for quick return of crops to customers. In terms of the nature of the price, the choice of a company's transport is a great deal, but in terms of land transport, only part of the social costs that the move brings back in the form of taxes and pay to the State. So, it's a little secret because there's quite a difference. The actual cost of transport is higher than the price of a moving company collected by customers. As road traffic has increased, as mentioned, heavy transport has been very much so, as shown in the initiative. Coastal cruises can be both modern and environmental as suggested by the proposal, environmentalisation, but agriculture, free of less carbon dioxide than land transport is released. It is well - thought - out, and it is technically possible to live a beach transport ship with an eco-friendly hardware that burns eco-friendly fuels as it has been killed. There's a good chance of this, and it's been shown by the opinions I'm just about to enter, in three ways, that sea transport could be less expensive than land transport. At the same cost of transport, as has been the case, sea transport is not the same as land transport. Of course, it has to be true, and in between, it must be consistent. Of course, that is a requirement. The suggestion is that two coastal ships would be taken into business. The suggestion is that interests are being cared for in a broad, broad context, i.e. that this could be an additional security for seafarers and rural populations, and also, as indicated in the suggestion, that such ships could, to some extent, be introduced into the transport of waste and help improve them all. That's where we call them environmentally. This matter has been examined considerably in the past decade. In 2016, VSO employed a small potent report for the road transport industry called heavy road transport: coastal transport. The conclusion, as far as it will be concerned, is that the number of heavy cars on the highways was reduced by the return of the 2013 coast cruises. When sources are noted that were not necessarily very accessible, it can be seen that in several places, there is a marked decrease in the number of heavy cars after these transfers began again in connection with the international cruises of the shipping companies, but in other locations, heavy cars seem to increase considerably from year to year. Data on the transport of coastal seawaters show that there is a substantial increase in the rate of freight transport from the year 2013 when the coasts began again. The report points out the fact that the Icelandic road system is, in fact, a bit much more complex and the business of the proportionately more expensive for national preparation here than in neighboring countries. The report says that it is important to take good care of the investments in transport edifications and construction arrangements where it will be most useful. The report thus considers whether the conditions on the roads are as bad as they are because they were not cared for or if the extravasation is so heavy. Both are believed to occur. There has been a likelihood of saving companies on the land area because of a more efficient transport approach at least well for another billion dollars a year, if well worked. Not to be overlooked is the fact that moving to sea also saves much. According to the report, it can be assumed that driving a truck every year can save more than 3 million miles [3 million km]. A group of workers have taken it out and found that there are sufficient transport volumes of so-called patient products for this to be achieved, of interest among transporters, and of which transport costs can be offered competitively during the move. This point should be considered, and I hope that the proposal will receive careful but quick publicity at the council and that these issues will be examined in the mind of using one or two shoreships.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u128	Mr. President. Thank you. A foreman, Ásmundur Friðriksson, for the speech and presentation of this synoptic proposal that I am with with with six others. Four members of the council who comment on the interest in this proposal. The proposal is that the practical transport of ships along the coasts of the country will be investigated by transport and rural management. The point of the proposal is some. First, with less or more coastal transport, transport of vehicles is reduced by road erosion. As indicated by the proposal, heavy - vehicle vehicles break down roads one hundred or a thousand times more than a light vehicle. It is also the aim of the proposal for coastal transport to light traffic on the roads of the country, which are, as it turns out, extremely poorly equipped to take on increased traffic, as we have seen in recent years. It is next obvious, Mr. President, that such transport would reduce greenhouse gas emissions much less than by trucks in those days, just as all efforts to reduce pollution and the footprints mankind leaves to harm future generations. It also suggests that the coastal ships can also be used to transport waste to discarded areas and generally waste today. So this proposal has to do with what I made in September. to investigate the practicality of building in this region of high-tech cremation, which is of little value but can burn most of the waste we leave behind and cannot recycle. I've recommended the suggestion twice, and it goes on to say that there will be such a station so that we won't be clearing waste any more than we've been in recent years. There are millions of tons that have wasteed over the last few years and decades, and some of these wastes are extremely contaminated. We have a bad reputation for this, and I want us to stop and start acting like the environmental people we pretend to be. So we can shamefully speak of bringing our waste in the most environmentally acceptable way possible. Recycling is not minimized. It can also grow and develop, as there are many happy examples. As a result of the search for economic coastal transport, the number of such waste being exported by land's roads is now lower than ever before. Inland, inland, a number of burning sites have been destroyed because of pollution, and this has resulted in large quantities of waste being exported from one country to another. How much is that? How heavy is it? How many trips are there, how many miles, and how much emissions? It would also be checked, i.e. The savings of transporting it with ships. The idea that such coastal ships can also play the role of rescue ships in times of emergency is worthy of great attention now as we see the rise in international shipping in recent years and may increase much more if ships around the North Pole open up in the years to come with melting ice in those regions. Mr. President. We are simply not in a position to deal with it if large ships face the high tides of the land. It can be a long way to help, and it would be good if such a beach ship were, for example, a beach ship. filled with power of tow. We've had a talk about the public defenses of the winter, and it's time to point out that this is a disaster that we may be having. The most vulnerable of all. Here come dozens, if not hundreds of cruises already, sailing around the country, and we have our country. Fortunately, there have been no accidents there, but if such ships land in peril, we are neglected. We have a very powerful patrolling, but there's only one, and there may be a static across the country. Such coastal ships, which would have some kind of spare power in these materials, would be a very good addition to the equipment we already have, very good and less expensive, and would play a different role. Also, the proposal assumes that these ships will be prepared for a helicopter that is assembled or can be put together so that they will be less likely to go before them than in distress could land on such ships. Technology is on its way. One purpose of the proposal is safety for remote settlements. We've seen it recently in recent recent disasters, such as the storm between the north, the avalanches west, and the volcanic eruptions of Smokeynes, that people have thought of who we can be as well as what our vessel might be. We have one good patrol ship and two older ones so that if they could also take care of coastal transport and transport the goods and wastes between parts of the country, they would be very good. Also, as it has been observed in the above - mentioned cases, coastal transport becomes less expensive than land transport, letting go when talking about pollution or breaking roads. In terms of holding and operating on such ships, we will leave the Minister to the proposal to investigate the best implementation of whether this was a cooperation project of the state and of the community or of the state, and even a private partner, whether this would be one vessel or two, each size of them, and all equipment, and otherwise a minister will be assigned to investigate all the sides of this case. I stress that the costs will be explored as well as the benefits and defects of the proposal and such ships, and that will be taken into the pollution, erosion of roads, environmental factors, greenhouse gas emissions, waste transport and the rescue role, i.e. all the things we've mentioned, and the minister will report and introduce the case to the General. The proposal assumes a date of April 1. but I expect this date, which is very close to us, will get something back.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u129	A respectable president. I hereby make a motion for a resolution of the 70-year-old violation of law No. 70/1996, on the rights and duties of the workers of the state. I've got carriers down there with me. Councilmen Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Ingi Kristinsson Kristjánsdóttir, Bjöl Leví Gunnarsson, Mlæn Helgi Gunnarsson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir and Ásmundur Friðriksson. The suggestion reads: The General concluded to hide financial and economic ministers, in agreement with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Children's Affairs, to initiate a discussion with the official staff organization on the violation of the law that limits the work of public employees at 70 years of age. The proposal suggests, as mentioned earlier, that financial and economic secretarys will be assigned in consultation with the social and child - care minister to initiate a discussion with the government organisation of breaking the law on the age of some 70th of the public employees. The aim of the proposal is to give public employees a chance to remain in their jobs after they are 70 years of age, if they want to and trust in them. The Law on State Rights and Duty, No. 70/1996 is the rule that government employees should be suspended at 70 years of age. In 1st. Thirty-three. The law states that an official should provide relief from the next month at the age of 70 and also from those who are temporarily appointed. Two. 43. g. says the employee should always resign from and from the next month after he is 70 years old. The law does not apply to the staff of your community, but the same terms are in the labour agreements of your colleagues. According to Labour Code, No. 86/2018, is a direct or indirect difference based on age, prohibited when it comes to the availability of jobs and, therefore, the recruitment and implementation of jobs, as per 1 mg. 1st par. and 1st. 7. The law. There is, however, an exception in parsity 12. The law says that different treatments due to age are not considered to be against the law to be a perennial argument devoted to legitimate goals, including employment policies or other occupational goals, as such actions will not go beyond those required to achieve the target. On the basis of the exception, there will be discrimination on account of the age laid down in Article 12. the management of equal management of a labour market should be based on grammatical arguments devoted to a legitimate goal, for which no progress is necessary. In a paper with a bill that became the law No. 86/2018, including About 12. that it be assumed that a special retirement age is the purpose of achieving a legitimate goal, such as in the light of public employment policies. In a paper with a bill that turned into law No. 38/1954 and include in comments on 13. that there is a difference of opinion as to whether the age should be the age of public employees and the age for which to live. Are there the evidence in the ratings that the age limit is usually no longer valid employees, that they rarely accept it themselves, and that they would have to give young men the opportunity to get to work. The age peak was taken into law on the rights and duties of employees, No. 70/1996. Transporters point out that quality of life and circumstances have changed greatly since the laws on the rights and duties of the Kingdom. The increased life expectancy and the improved health of people have enabled them to serve longer than they once did. The right to make public employment policy reflects the change and give it to those who want to work longer and have health to that possibility. In support of this, it may be noted that in some cases employees of the public institutions continue to work for those who work after the end of their work at 70 years of age. At the same time, the official loss of knowledge may be to the general labour market, where similar dates are not found. This proposal is not intended to encourage public employees to prolong or pressure their career, and it is important that the viewpoint of representatives of the public employees be made when the rules for them are changed. Therefore, the movers stress that the decommissionment of the age restrictions in cooperation with public employees' organisations and stress the importance of the careful implementation of the deduction process and reconciliation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u130	V.E.G. President. In my own heart, I agree with this matter. Actually, I don't understand its behavior, and I don't understand its format. If conveyors wanted to take laws from employees' laws that limit the work of public employees at 70 years of age, it would be more appropriate to submit the legal bill of this material. I don't get it first. Second, the Central Party bill referred to a government in the autumn Summit refers to government workers being able to work to 73 years if they choose to do so. It was referred to by the government against the promise that a minister of finance would arrive at the Fall Council 2020 with its bill, i.e. That government workers, if they choose and trust, can work to 73 years of age. Now I don't know if it's because of the distrust of a traveler's partner with a financial minister that she proposes this proposal to tie up the already-in-the-top bill. Minister, I don't quite understand if it is. That is why I wondered about this form and manner of conduct. I'm not going to be the one to put a stone in its street, but I say again: The matter is already under way, the Council of the Central Party has made its way, in fact, two consecutive councils, through the General Assembly. The first time it came up on a committee, but the second time it was referred to by the government. Of course, my heart is completely in agreement with my goals. As shown in the fine talk of the day. paritaprevir This is true of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, who has long worked for the State for 70 years on the head of those who are 70 years old, e.g. In specialized jobs, there is a priceless treasure of knowledge that is actually being discarded, belittled, and expelled from the work at 70 years of age. There is another factor that appeared that is absolutely correct in speaking at the right time. A senator who has worked for the State for a long day and who has stopped 70 years is often made contractors of the state. But there is something else involved. The present government has not been entrusted with taking over the limitations of these people's income. In a row with middle class members, we have proposed that employment income does not interfere with pension income. As it is today, it is not enough for these people to become contractors at the state, they must not enter without cutting their benefits. This, Mr. President, is not encouraging at all. And if the movers really kept up their minds, then first of all, they would have supported the bill I discussed earlier that the media suggested. The law, these two articles, was designed to become the law, i.e. that 73 years would be legalized and the law would take effect. It was in our mind, however, that we were to point the case to the government in the confidence that it would be prepared here at the autumn Parliament and then likely by a broader appeal than the bill offered. It is also true to recall once again that a few years ago, however, the lawgiver decided that Iceland's pension age was flexible from 65 to 80 years. But to government employees, he is not flexible. Seven, and it's over. In fact, it's a long time to change this. But I'll say again, I don't understand the point. I'd have considered it normal to throw it on a bill and cut the limit in just one time. But that's actually what me and the Middle Class suggested and is now in the hands of the government. There is actually one thing that may not be clear in this case here, i.e. whether or not transporters think that all dates will be removed. If it does, it calls for a little more control and/or more resources. If we give it all out, let's just say that people can work with the state to the low limit if they think of it, then one day on that road from 70 C.E. to the 90's, some kind of proper food must be done. Today, Mr. President, about 70 years old, the capacity for driving falls, and people need to renew it faster than ever before. If I remember correctly first every five years and then every year as we move on. If this is what men are looking for, then it must be done. It doesn't show. I haven't seen it in this report. There must be some provision to make sure that a good person is in a position to serve as he or she has been before. That was why e.g. Central Class bill for 73 years. This was not entirely evident, since based on research, there is an extremely high level of work or employment involved until the age of 73, which takes a very sharp dip. That may be, e.g. Now, lately, this is partly because of what I said earlier, because the government has taken the lead in changing 100,000 dollars. as a so-called vacation market I'd like to say, Mr. President, is a total bullshit. If our Middle Class proposal had been taken care of, i.e. that businesses don't reduce pension income, nobody loses it, Mr. President, not any man, not the state, but, of course, because of these earnings, people would pay taxes. I don't think that, even though I've had nothing to do with anything, and it doesn't seem like the State, by being made unable to make more than a hundred thousand dollars. without being affected, senior citizens of this country are being forced into tax fraud in later years. If that idea is correct, it's kind of more than just an speculative conclusion. Rather, it's something you've heard and seen and happened to, it's more than ironic to force people into tax fraud, people who've been doing good work in society all the time, and in the final yards of the labour market, it's really pathetic. I would have felt that as fine as this case is, and harmlessly, it would be better if it had been sharper. I would have thought better, if it were 70 years plus, without a top, that something more would have been about it. But beyond that, I think it's natural Catholic that the Allied council deems a minister as law. Mr. President, I believe it's Generalis to write a law. It's our job here, our business is to write laws, and we don't have to challenge any Ministers to write songs, we just do it ourselves if we're going to do it. That's why I don't understand this nook route. To say that the matter is harmless, there is no reason to stop it, and I don't suppose I will. Still, I wanted to point to the obvious faults of this matter before continuing to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u131	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. Despite his feeling of being so pointless, I do not agree with him at all. I think, and that's why I didn't put in a law bill, very important that there's a conversation with the government organisation. I don't think it's the first step of the Generals to establish a law to eliminate this without allowing an organization to produce ideas of implementation, including the senator's discussion of age, i.e. that they are removed, and that they set no age limit. I believe by making the suggestion, we'll get reviews, probably including. from these sources, which the two Ministers may work on for the purpose of it. Maybe that's not what it's gonna be. Maybe that's what it's gonna be, I don't know. The people I've talked to are very positive, but that doesn't mean that the results will necessarily be in harmony with them. I think the original and only purpose of this case is to drag the people to the table that is appropriate, but it's not that they're just being taken over and saying, "We're going to take it off, no matter what you think." I think it's important that we respect the right organization, including... a body of employees, such as these, a body of public employees. I think it's an option and the case to progress in this way that the Ministers can then cooperate. The Council can make laws, the Ministers can also negotiate laws, and then we decide what to do with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u132	President. Thank you. A senator's excellent objection, but if she had studied the case of the Central Party in her own time, two consecutive members of Congress, she would have found that the retail organisation on public markets sent reviews of that matter and attended committee meetings to discuss that matter, so it was not as if there was a lack of consultation. I'm going to add that in the autumn when this matter of the Central Party was referred to by the government, the evidence that the present period would be used to consult with the labor movement, i.e. the end of it that applies to government employees. The summer would be used to write a bill, and it would be presented here in the fall. And as I say again, the General Assembly is beginning to conclude, in agreement with the Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs, that negotiations that have already begun. If anything has been done with the bill referred to in the autumn government, these talks are already open, men are doing their job. It was contained in that statement, as I was saying, that spring would be used to consult the employee body of public employees. It was never planned at the time when the bill was put forth to contribute and to dig it into stone, and no one would have to say how it works. As a result, these excellent organizations came to the fore, and they can be found, as they are on the II Parliament's web hanging on the subject, each on the basis of the council, what was presented there. There was no one willing by the bill to lay down for men whom they could not have opinions at all, no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u133	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. The issues are completely different. Hv. A senator says it's not a piece of stone, and the indicators have included consultations with unions and others with whom it was appropriate, and it may well be, I don't know. This issue is presented at a time similar to that of the day. Senator. I want to draw attention to the fact that although it's being taken before this late, it appeared early in the fall. In my opinion, these are different cases, one of which amputating the age and the other, binding them to 73 years of age. There may be other comments that we get on this subject; of course, these are mere public employees. At any rate, I have the hope that we will get good comments, and I hope that both problems will be started. While this was certainly referred to financial and economic ministers, I really hope that we will get even deeper discussions on the matter, which will be used in that work to decide whether we're going to tie it to a certain age or whether we want to cancel it and then whether we want to do it only with public employees or if we want to suggest that it be more extensive. Like what? A senator pointed to the legal authority in our hands when we have received some information and decision, whether it will eventually become a minister of some matter or whatever, which I would like to see as an organization of public employees would like.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u134	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to make sure of what. A member of Parliament on whether the matter was presented before presenting the obvious fact that the bill of our Middle Class was presented in two councils, but it was not done until now before Christmas. I say again, our minds came up in the fall to trust the highest. The secretary of finance when he was referred to by the bill, trusted him to present a bill of the same material within the specified time frame, as expected. I guess I'm not in the boardwork at the highest level. Secretary of the budget, but that's a problem. A senator, on the other hand, and if she has reason to doubt his good purposes, I may understand the attitude of this matter. But as I say, I only believe in the highest. The secretary of finance and me and the middle class, who believe that he will in due time in the fall, present a case in which the adjustment of the law, the planning, the preparations, is made. This 73 - year - old number, which we presented, was not an exclusion factor on the part of those who made the decision. It was quite open that there would be a longer delay that men could work longer, but then we pointed out the obvious part, the fitting part, etc., and considered this to be a good first step and thought it could be submitted and made legal. There are a lot of people waiting out there who want to go on with their heads full of knowledge, which we're retirement a lot early. I have to say, too, that this fine case here would have been better followed by a suggestion that pay doesn't reduce pension income. Then it would have been a completely different case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-05-70.u135	Mr. President. I'm just gonna let me come up here for a minute, and I can't sit down. This is an interesting subject, an interesting proposal presented, and in the spirit of the discussion in the community and in the Western world. It reflects openness and vision, and it is in the spirit of the times in which we live, to reduce discrimination, indiscriminateness, and indiscriminateness between generations. We're talking, not gender discrimination now, but discrimination between generations. So I like this suggestion, and I like it most of the way it works, but it overdoses, it's too conservative. It was interesting to watch the exchange between them. The members of the Synod of the Þorsteinn Sæmundsson of Sæmund and the Bjarkey of Gunnarsdóttir Gunnsdótttir, who had an argument over Caesar's beard, were not quite clear. paritaprevir The village of Sæmundsson understood what was going on. The middle class will have provided a bill that expected a roof of 73 years, but there is no roof here. Official employees are authorized to do so, as suggested, if this becomes legal, i.e. The law on the rights and responsibilities of the government, to function freely after they reach their 60's. That's not the way it is today. They must complete their jobs as employees on the day of their nearly 70 - year - old calling but can continue working as contractors, as indicated in this suggestion. This proposal of many members of the body, six political parties, representing these six members, is excellent. It is called a bit with other proposals which have been submitted but have not yet been recommended, i.e. Suggested termination of the age-related retirement rules as currently stated, with the nature of the report. The members of Ásmundur Friðriksson and Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son and others, representatives of all classes, are at hand. It is raised as part of three suggestions for the elderly. This proposal suggests hiding social and child - care minister, in agreement with the main stakeholders, to prepare and provide a bill that carries out regulations that limit the authority of older people to perform certain tasks when certain lifetimes are reached. It's just smooth and smooth. I think we're moving closer, and both the bill of the Central Party and the Senate resolutions we're considering today show that we're getting closer to removing these boundaries of a work market, which is skill, ability, and will of the person in charge. Like what? This suggestion is not a pressure to continue working or to force anyone or anyone in a certain direction. They have their rights, but they have the opportunity or the right to continue in their assignment. The European Court has concluded, and ten years ago, a mandatory retirement age is a direct discrimination based on age and, in fact, we are referring to this law in the law on equal treatment of the labour market approved here in 2018. This law clearly forbids all discrimination in the labour market, whether direct or indirect, on the basis of race and nationality, faith, principles of life, disability, impaired working ability, age, sexual orientation, or sexual awareness. So it is up to us now in Icelandic legislation that we may need to sharpen. It is of great value to each one, and we know ourselves, being able to choose the way, choosing whether we want to continue working, where we want to work, when we want to finish the job. This can only make a difference as to whether we're going to be successful in our social life, whether we're going to live in poverty. There are certain professions that have legalized the completion of a certain amount of work before it is due. Take, for example, pilots of 65 years. There are certain professions requiring special prowess, that people have special vision, especially good hearing, and physical ability to do the work. There are the material and material reasons that can be cited. But we know what we are in the past, that adults are older than 20 years old, and this was evident in the matter at any given time. paritaprevir Sourstein, Sæmundsson of Sæmund, may have been working for decades as a bank of experience and knowledge, and this is all too often wasted. It is proper to stress that although these attitudes are growing, wage workers continue their rights and pension rights and can choose. It is the precious thing that people have this choice. I'd like to let myself say the same thing. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson in that way, although I don't give a couple for their bill at the end of 73 years, there's a lot of weakness in our pension system that we have to deal with. Governments say it costs a lot of money. So I disagree. That won't cost much money. It's a question of morality and a question of decision.
