ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-73.u1	At her meeting yesterday, the prime committee discussed a letter received by the President from financial and economic secretary regarding the continuation of financial programs because of the changed economic situation. There is now a change in the work programme that financial programs will not be on the program until mid - May. As a result, in the coming days and weeks, there may be additional changes in the work programme and meeting schedule for the council, and they will be informed as clearly as they can.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-73.u2	Borist has received a letter from a foreign and developing co-work minister asking for every request to give a written answer to a covering query. 584, search for submarines, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-73.u3	The President intends to vote in such a way today that each vote will be open at least two minutes, so that not all members of the council need to be in the hall at one time when voters are elected, of course, at the start of the vote and not leave the house until after the vote is completed. Here, hopefully, only a few votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-73.u4	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank you for being here today for a meeting to take over this matter and that there's gonna be a variation to find out. I recommend a bill to legalise a change in the laws on the local payment of public pay and insurance laws. The bill suggests that half of the pay of public pay and of the insurance paid on pay date on March 1, 2020, will be suspended for a month and a day will be 14 days afterwards. The single payment of public pay and insurance fees should remain unchanged, due to the one half that is suspended, on March 16, 2020, but will be on April 15, 2020, if the bill is legal. For a temporary and general transitional procedure, it is suggested that the laws mentioned above be added provisionally. At the time given, pay period according to the bill, this month which is created here, the Agency will be working on the implementation of a new way which ensures that companies have had financial resources to cover over this. The changes proposed by the bill are not relevant to local pay laws on financing. The bill has an extension of the time that can be passed without the application of subsidiary laws on half the amount of payable in March 2020. If local pay is not made at the right time, the stress should be paid according to Article 28. the law on the standards of public remuneration. The bill includes the stress we feel as shown in the 28th chapter of the bill. The law will not be applied until April 16th. ... becauseofthedelayingstuffstuffs you're wearing. The bill includes neglecting insurance fees, which would require interest from due date, after the one - day date of the 16th March, so that it does not have to grow tow until after one day, April 15. This is highlighted in the bill. I would like to step in to the fact that these matters are done under a considerable amount of time pressure. Such as to approximately 85% of all those who are to return local and insurance bills on March 16 have already submitted their returns, and this is how the parties have already been run out. If this bill is legal, the change will take place, instead of paying that requirement on Monday, it will be divided. There's another drive through the computer systems. In line with what I've traced here, the first half will be on Monday and the second half on April 15, 2020. As a result of the nature of the case that, without a legal warrant, this change cannot be run out in your homework, but we assume that those who have already paid can request to distribute the money and to be paid the portion that has already been paid. During the council, I strongly agree that we need to respond in a specific way to the circumstances that have developed. We are already affected by the effects of the virus on our economy, but by the reactions suggested here, the negative effects of what has already appeared to us can be greatly reduced. I'm going to explain in my mind the idea of distributing money for March 16, but after we saw it a new resource elsewhere, after we saw an international agency's incentive, had looked at the possibility at home, and, of course, reviewed the experience from over a decade of such resources, we might have felt that we were working to work on such a solution. I feel that it is a sign of how fast things are changing that over a short period of time, the pressure to finish this case has given me tremendous pressure. I feel obliged to make it clear that a large number of companies rely on the success of the situation in order to improve the quality of their financial resources. Then, of course, people are confident that the alternative measures we are going to take will be sufficient for those who become in trouble because of the down cycle, simply losing income. The examples we hear are that the hall falls by 30,40% and more during the last week and this week. At the retail site, the effects are considerable and effective. No doubt there are few examples of such an effect on the revenue current of such companies. Of course, they're all talking about tourism. The problem there is obvious and uncertainty will not help, but we would like to attend this bill and the subsequent actions. It is expected that by the bill, if it becomes law, we will affect approximately Twenty-two billion that would otherwise have come to pay. Monday. These changes are expected to be a delay in the income of a government fund of up to 22 billion dollars. That's half of what's payable according to credits after a weekend. We can see from this money that this is an enormous economic activity. At the same time, I have to say that we're not completely obvious in what way we're going to reform the solution for the rest. We've seen all kinds of exports of it in other countries. Most of it I've only seen in news media myself, but we've also tried to get a perspective on major actions. For example, when you say that a tourism company is going to be paid, it's gonna be hard to draw the line. Is business with the Leye Road that sells coats or souvenirs to tourism? When people say that companies who have had 25% of their income losses are to be paid, I ask: "What about a company that got a 23% income drop? What's to be done for it? The impact of such rules can be tremendous. At the same time, we must face the fact that our overall mood to meet these challenges is not unlimited. When we take the first step toward leaving money in the workplace when it is difficult to do so, remember that we will not be able to take many steps indefinitely. It is very important that each step in which we are going to make the impression is taken, or we invite the risk that we have done too much for too many but too little for those who are in the greatest need. This is what I think is our largest common solution for the operation ahead of us. I'm not saying this in particular just about this case here, but I think it applies to this case that when we go out on a longer-term process, which according to the bill is supposed to be over the next few weeks, before the next due date, we need to keep this in mind. Such decisions can be very powerful in determining whether government efforts will produce the results. The same is true of other bills that will be seen. I mention, for example. of course, the support systems for illustrated and prime reports on the prenup, also basic warnings about reductions in taxes or in other payings that will be seen day by day. There we will endeavor to arrange the process in a way that we can reach those we know are in the greatest need. According to this, I'd like to give them messages to all who have paydays on Monday because they're not in the position of need of their deadlines, I pray that men be delivered, that they don't borrow from the state's funds unless they're in need of payment. The bill is made in such a way that everyone has every right. Everyone has the right to make the most of the time here, and I will not make any comments about it. If we prosper in creating the solidarity of needed action that we need to take, we will also be able to stick together for the extent to which we have spent most of our time in need. That's why I say that companies that are not in need for a distribution of dues should simply be in terms as originally planned. According to this, a respectable president, I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-73.u5	Mr. President. We in the United States support this operation and are fully aware that it needs to be done at high speed because there are dates ahead of us on Monday simply, that need to be taken into account. But I assume, Mr President, this is not the only operation at the highest level of the vehicle. Government and I would like to ask the highest. Minister: How about postponing the payment of a sum tax? That date is April 5th. Will we expect to handle such a matter immediately after a weekend? Also, I would like to ask the highest. Minister on the status of people who lose their jobs in spite of government action. We know unemployment is increasing. Some have already lost their jobs. Is there a comparable action for people who lose their jobs, such as for companies, to work against unemployment? Has it, for example. Have you discussed within the government that if you lose your job, you will allow the interest and payments to be paid during the epidemic? Is it possible to give any kind of recommendation to banks and pension funds? Is such an operation, as assessed by the highest grade. Minister possible?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-73.u6	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for the practical suggestions in this matter. With respect to tax taxes, I don't want to rule out any action, e.g. to distribute pay days, but we have no such decision. We are here taking action to postpone 22 billion, such as I've made, and we need to take into account the overall importance of such measures and how the cohesion of the value of tax reciprocation and this operation could be carried out in the overall sense. I'd like to answer a question about loss of employment in a way that the government is working hard to achieve a similar export to what we've seen in the past as a result of economic breakdown. It is a task now carried out by the social minister, and it will not be long before he will present his ideas in that regard. With the mortgage payments, I'd like to say, first of all, that at this point, apart from what affects jobs, we don't see the punch at the homes. We have no comparable situation today, as was the case in the crash when we received huge inflation and growth on high ground. We are, in effect, the opposite of today's lowest interest rate we have seen, and we have seen a great deal of money and a recent bargaining. However, it is to be expected that such situations will require payment in the financial system and we will agree on what we can do. [[The president calls.]] I can only bring it into the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-73.u7	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Now it is that unemployment improvements are historically low compared to minimum income or minimum scale, and I'd like to ask the highest possible question. A minister of whether he feels that there is an option for him to increase unemployment in this situation and whether it is within the government of the people who work in the entertainment sector, the soloists, the artists, who have lost their income because they have been determined to postpone concerts, celebrations, etc. They're people who have these things to live their lives and who can't walk around making money like others. Has the highest. Governments were concerned about the status of these people?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-73.u8	A respectable president. We increased unemployment rates by 19% in the spring of 2018. There was a significant increase in rights to unemployment insurance by that change. We have also seen in the financial payment that this has had tremendous effects. I think we all agree that we want to try to save as many people as possible and get through the temporary situation we're here to watch. I want to agree with what. A senator that when we see the inevitable unemployment, we must cherish them, but I believe our system is strong and quite powerful. For independent jobs, I don't think it's impossible that we could, for example, be able to. their contributions by allowing people to take out their special property savings as they were done in the past. It is a costless operation for the state's funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-73.u9	Mr. President. I thank the head of finance for your history. We, of course, support this case, but at the same time we realized that this is a preliminary use of saving dues now on Monday. I'm not going to spend very much of the duration at this point in the discussion. We'll take this up on a financial and business committee. But what I'm thinking about is two things. First, in view of what was said in the case of the highest order. Secretary of finance, the very number of governments this week has been investigating their action, developed strategy, to respond to the unprecedented situation in the world today. When can we expect the implementation of this government? That's what I still miss. It's like there's supposed to be some small amount of exposure, and here we're talking about, I'd call this a minor technical implementation. That certainly is a deadline for 22 billion, but it does not provide a glimpse of the year. This is to be paid along with the rest of the month of April after one month. That is the first question: When will the government introduce its package of action in these matters? I hope it's just right after the weekend. Second, in this special matter, because we've talked about it in this room that in these situations, as much uncertainty as we're up against, it's better to go beyond smaller, whether it's not safe to go further in this matter, e.g. that there is only one third of it, one quarter of it, and may even be a choice that would be for the weekend's pay. It is quite clear that there are a lot of companies in a very heavy position in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-73.u10	A respectable president. First of all, I've had the first reaction that by postponing half of my payday, leaving 22 billion outside the job, we're meeting the expectations for this operation. When we ask: "When will other actions be ready? " I would just answer that, so we've already said very clearly about certain actions. I'll give you, for example, the host tax. This is also a clear procedure, although the subsequent export is carried out. I am not one of those who believe that those who have jumped until the last week or ten days and declared that this is what has to be done and exactly like this, and even if individual governments have brought their operations, I will allow myself to state that few of those who fill that group will see exactly what lies ahead. It is simply so much uncertainty as to exactly how deep this level will be and how long it will last that there may not be time to complete the operations due to uncertainty. However, we will expand, let us say next week, all the main lines of action that will take place. I've already only been in that discussion this week. Some people have been referring to such factors as the insurance policy, and I'll tell them: "Let's try making arrangements on such matters so that the effect stays where they need it. I mention, for example, that a 1 or 2% reduction in insurance spending out of the year, for example, does nothing but reduce the amount of money they earn, and I don't think the effects will do much if they cost a fortune. We need to gather the aneurysm and punch it through where we want to achieve the effect, likely to tighten the effect when the grading is deepened.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-73.u11	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister will answer, and I agree wholeheartedly. It's unprecedented, it's very uncertain. I can't any more than anyone else, no more than the highest. Minister, tell us a little about how hard a blow and a chronic blow this will be. But we do know that it will be quite a short time. That is why I urge us not to look at a one or two percent reduction in insurance fees in the first place, but rather a full course of insurance spending for one to three months or one of those. We bring a decisive action that will have a short period of effect while uncertainty is the most because it's quite clear that we're taking on a very big blow. The same time we're discussing this matter, there's a ban on the meeting. Of course, it's an additional blow to our entire career. I completely agree with what was presented in the history of the highest. Ministers that we also have to be careful that it may be simple to eliminate certain things, such as the financial system or some of the measures such as subsidies of insurance, but it is very difficult to determine where the effects will go when individual companies do. [[The president calls.]] I also remind you again and again, as shown in a case of which. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný Harðardóttir, that we don't forget the peasants who would be entitled to this position. [[The president calls.]] They need to be considered for action as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-73.u12	A respectable president. I agree when people point out that we must not leave individual groups like those who are independent and we will remember. Here we are discussing measures that you would naturally hope to achieve as much solid solidarity as possible during the council. I have declared that the cost of overdosing in my mind will always be greater than the cost of having done a little too much, just more than necessary. Therefore, my suggestions for the council will indicate that we take the situation very seriously, that we will take advantage of the position we have developed in recent years to cope with such a shock. That's what we were doing. I hope that the conversation here at the council will result in the best possible solution, and we will speed up the proposal to the council as far as we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-73.u13	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Foreman of finance. I'd like to introduce to you at the beginning that we in the Central Party support this case and it's a good first impression, as it were. Of course, the case indicates that this is a temporary procedure, but at the same time, it is flimsier that the next days and weeks will be used to frame a more detailed solution for this particular feature and other possible remuneration and delay in paying taxes. It appeared at the end of the history of the highest. The minister of finance to the State's scope for entering would be limited in general. This is three things to me. First, there are measures that cost the government little, as is now payoffs on income that are expected to complete and secondly, the pension savings, the special property, and other things like that, and the actual post-employment of taxes and the pay that will be left in the long term in the workplace. Of course, the third thing is the injection, the investment part, that has been flammable to be introduced to the end of the month and is needed to deal with the underlying creviction of the economy that has been in place long before the Korean virus was obtained. What I want to ask the highest. The secretary of finance is whether there is already a assessment in the government or in the Ministry of finance what the overall picture is, as it were, permanent and real after-party, will not be paid off. What does the minister believe that a government fund can take reasonable steps to leave permanent oxygen, so to speak, in the business?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-73.u14	A respectable president. I view it this way when we consider the actions of the government that we need to take into account the overall fluctuation of the system as set up. Then I'm referring to the state's revenue system as having an enormous amount of fluctuation. It will, for example. this year we see that the government's income will fall to about tens of billions according to what was previously planned. Thus, without making a special new arrangement, we are already building into our systems acoustic phenomena. So when we ask what governments are going to do in general, I would always look at the balance systems in addition to what happens in new direct decisions. I call attention to the fact that the government fund will have to take tens of millions of dollars outside any other measure we are taking. However, when it comes to a direct new operation, such as cat drains, I can't answer it exactly right now. I won't be the spokesman for a little medicine cure for that. What I want to do and use the days ahead to understand more is to leave behind. a discussion with the job life of what kind of action would be most beneficial. It is true that other governments have made very decisive decisions. I think that people are still a little shooting in the dark, and that is often not until people take steps that are faced with reaction and some objection and other means are identified. We need to take some minimum time to apply such suggestions. [[The president calls.]] However, several million measures are always what we're talking about when, overall, the balance between income taxation and the overall activity of the income tax system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-73.u15	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answered. The fluctuation equation is built into the tax system, but the fluctuation balance in the predictable future for reducing the income of state funds results in that, at least In terms of the enterprise, the position of an enterprise is becoming very rapid and intense. In fact, this situation has been getting tight in this way for the past few years. If you select one time point, you might most likely specify the fall of the airline Wow as the beginning point of the development. She has been very determined since autumn. I'm not going to present a specific additional question now. Rather, I'm glad that the secretary of finance repeats here what he said yesterday, that it would be less risky to go beyond the shortest of the measures that lie ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-73.u16	A respectable president. It's a part of the Tequifer System. For example, it would be of little value right now to say that in the year 2019 the income taxes will be reduced if the companies are either fired in such a way that they are not likely to pay income taxes for the year 2019. It may appear on the surface as a very extensive and massive operation, but if the estimated income tax of 2019 is either way, it will not work as it may seem on the surface. This is what I mean, we've built a system that will leave the money in companies if there's no profit and no business to pay off taxes. That is what we need to keep in mind. The government will, therefore, take a substantial dip and take steps to finance the combination, despite the lack of contribution from the companies. [[The president calls.]] We're just beginning this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-73.u17	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The head of finance and this discussion that I'm not going to extend. As reported in the Middle East, we support this matter. However, I do not believe that this operation alone is not the determining factor. Not to be overlooked are the homes of the country, and reliable measures regarding increasing unemployment must be made as soon as possible. I welcome the highest. Minister here mentioned the possible options for the special property. It is an efficient procedure, and it does not cost a trust fund, as correctly indicated. It is also important for us to keep a close eye on the development of success and to include them if it is found that there is an unpleasant fall because it has a tremendous impact on the homes and loans of the country. An increase in in in inflation is something we especially want to see in these circumstances. In this discussion, you wonder about other fees. There's no mention here. V.E.G. Minister mentioned the host tax. As far as it goes, it is fine, but it does not control anyone because the cost of lodging is not paid for that which is not available. That may be where we come to the point. The big problem is to predict that there will be little or no income in the tourism service, and therefore it is urgent that we look to it. It's one of our biggest industry, and if it's hit by a huge loss of income, everyone can see the consequences. In this regard, the U.S. embargo of the United States is a very serious decision that was completely upon us by our friend country for many years, a Cohesive Society of NATO, and the national defence agreement of Iceland. This is a matter that must be solved, Mr. President, to get us off this travel list as soon as possible. Each day is an enormous cost to the Icelandic economy. It is spoken of as 30 days, and that is an enormous loss for us. I cut by the highest. Prime Minister has requested a telephone meeting with the president of the United States. That's well, but you might ask, "The President of the United States is interested in talking with the prime minister of Iceland, remembering that we came to the country and brought us home the vice president of the United States in the fall months and the highest. Clearly, the prime minister had a very limited interest in meeting him? Everyone knows that problem and the trouble in the government home in that case. V.E.G. The prime minister was more interested in talking to labor leaders in the north. This is a bad suggestion for solving this case, Mr. President, unfortunately. In addition, I believe that the decision of the minister of foreign affairs to fail a contract military exercise against the United States and our defense agreement with the United States was a procedure that will not speed up the resolution of this case. To be honest, I am deeply concerned that the prime minister and secretary of state do not have the responsibility to solve this case against the United States in the light of their attitude in the autumn months that I traced, and now at the last, about this military exercise. One of the most important solutions is to try to get us off this U.S. tourist list.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-73.u18	A respectable president. There are two things I'd like to mention. First, regarding the host tax: Of course, we realize that the cost of stay will not be paid from empty rooms, but this work is predictable in considerable difficulty. It is more important that the price be taken down from the rooms that are still available. We are not saying that this is a larger operation than we can see. The price has been to give over a billion, just about, if I remember correctly, and we assume that this activity will leave behind several hundred million people, and I would have thought it would have meant that. But more importantly, we are hoping that this will be a temporary situation, that it will eventually be published, and that the cost will not come right away but will help men to correct the problem only by allowing the fee to remain inactive despite the fact that only publishes are being published. It's gonna matter too. I can agree with many of those things. A senator explained the importance of restoring contacts with the United States. I believe, however, that the leadership of the government in this relationship is very well qualified to do everything within our power to maintain our interests. It must be condemned by these U.S. findings to make a one - sided, immediate decision that seems to go far beyond what the situation demands. The resulting damage is ignominious, and it is not time to even try to be fully aware of it. And the longer it lasts, the more the damage will be. That is why the U.S. Secretary of State has been called in for a meeting next week, and we will continue to promote our interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-73.u19	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister and I agree with him about the fact that, of course, it is important to cancel the balance fee and the state funds will be there of income, about One billion such as the highest. A minister mentioned, but as he rightly mentioned, there is no payment from empty rooms. This is one of our issues, the actions must be targeted, and the important thing is to try to minimize the damage and try to prevent a complete collapse in the tourism service. It's important to try to get tourists here. Despite such circumstances, some tourists are coming to our country and from Europe, and this is important to us. That is why it is extremely important for me to resolve this matter against the United States. I'm celebrating it like I'm the highest. Secretary here says the Secretary of State is coming to see the U.S. Secretary of State, hopefully next week. It's an enormously important meeting. I say for my part, Mr. President, I think that our introduction to the conversation must naturally be in order to be perfectly understandable to the United States on the part of the United States, how devastating the damage is and those whom our friends have to look to. In this regard, I believe that it is right for the minister of foreign affairs to revise his decision to cancel this contract, to reiterate a contract, a military exercise. Let's not forget that, Mr. President, Iceland's defenses are at least being practiced. This exercise has been prepared for a very long time, and this is my part in solving this dispute and getting us off this list, so I hope that this meeting will be effective.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-73.u20	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for the story and bill of what we have in our hands. It is good to have the matter come to us, for it is urgent to act quickly and safely in social situations. However, we should not forget, though, that we especially watch tourism, and naturally, in the environment now that the problem is larger, longer, older, and more important. It's starting to clear that there's a storm in here, and there's a breakdown in the economy. All of this plays together and contributes to the fact that circumstances in Iceland are not particularly good, as the situation is right now. Of course, the biggest problem for those who are at the top of today's tourism is obvious. However, the effect will churning down the whole community and reaching all the sectors, since there are so many people involved in this work. We can talk, for example. those who sell tourists some kind of trip and take people to glaciers or guides who offer walks, etc. In fact, it affects the whole community when it comes to such things. I'd also like to mention the restaurants that many of us live by selling food to tourists. The contraction there will no doubt touch e.g. Farmers who have been producing goods, some especially at certain restaurants. The contraction will have a problem with this class, and I urge it to be examined. Of course, the contraction will also at some point affect the homes and is very important to be on the toes with the way we can deal with them, e.g. by ensuring that it is as much as possible that wax increases return to homes. I would also like to mention whether there is any reason to encourage the labour market party to sit down and wonder if that person may serve. The interests of everyone, both employee and professional, in terms of a small amount of remuneration. I'm not suggesting that they be removed, or anything like that, that you sign a new deal, or that you negotiate a new deal, but that you may be serving both sides at this time. If they don't, then it's just the way it is. I believe, however, that now it is very important for a man to make more decisions than a few, and that he will make them fast and reliable because it is better than to drag them. It is better to unwind from them, to correct what is decided, than to avoid making decisions. What matters most now is that the government, the government, the General, is made clear, act powerful, and make decisions that ease this crisis that we are experiencing very quickly. It can then be unwinded. There's one thing not to forget, which I know to the highest. The secretary of finance is well aware, and it is that this virus will definitely pass over at a certain time, perhaps two, three, four months. But the impact on society will be much longer. The effects on business and employment will be much longer than usual during the period of the virus. That is what we need to prepare for. We need long-term solutions. One of them may be lowering the permanent tax on the companies, proclaiming that very soon we will cancel or seriously reduce the tax on an enterprise so that they can look for an extended period of time with their business. I state that while it is a positive step that the government makes these suggestions, and these are the first steps that we understand, we must respond for a long time, so it is said. I reiterate in the end, because I know that this case has to come to the committee, we have to deal with it and deal with it today, to be made, that the middle party is, of course, ready to listen to all good ideas and is ready to bring good ideas to the table and to work on it if it can be done to speed things up so that good decisions can be made quickly and safely.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-73.u21	V.E.G. President. I'm glad this case's done, and thank you very much. Minister very much for the speech and this case. He has said repeatedly, and I am glad that now is the time to do more than less and I really hope that this will be the case because the first government response was rather ignorant, as it were. Despite the success of hosting fees, tourism is not just a hotel business. They sell goods to the hotels. First bus company's gone. There is not much to learn about the breakdown of hostilities in that sector. I eagerly await the arrival of more activities foretold in the next few days. I just want to mention a few things that I think we need to deal with, such as a decrease or a cutdown of insurance and making sure that the monotonous can get into the unemployment record as it did in 2009. I think now is also a time for the government to take e.g. discussed with the pension fund, making it possible for them to follow one of the business banks, significant not to a bank, and freeze their paydays. We already have unemployment, and it was growing before the events that have taken place today. I kind of came up here to encourage the highest. Secretary of finance and the entire government to listen to suggestions. Now is the time when it means that it does not matter where good things come from. I think most people in this room are willing to deal with the government. You and I in the Central Party are doing it as we've already seen, but I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm doing the best. Ministers and Governments all to listen to good proposals coming from government and stakeholders, labour markets, etc. to minimize the damage caused by the recent events. Of course, it has come to pass, and it is absolutely true that we are better equipped now and better prepared to cope with temporary hardships than often before. We have the bitterest experience of coping with a crash. Rather than looking ahead to a collapse now, we see a temporary situation that we here can do much to minimize and solve as soon as possible. I'd like to challenge that it also takes and can take more than just not doing enough, so we need to make bold, big decisions. I think the government will be able to support them. I'd like to mention one more thing, and it's an index binding loan. Now foreign currency is on the way uphill. The dollar was less than 132. this morning if I noticed correctly. This will allow the index to rise substantially here and thereby the lenders of the population. The index can be withdrawn temporarily, e.g. For two, three months, to prevent weight loss from affecting people who are normally prepared to deal with these events. Then I mention again the newly lost group, from last year on, the largest group items we saw since last year when, for example, we saw in the past. When we fell in love. We need to keep in mind these groups so that, as in the past, people will not be restored to the situation of losing their possessions on a large scale. It may be the irony of fate, Mr. President, that the aquifers of these days are being sold to a Norwegian investor of 1,300 apartments. I have suspected that in this group of apartments there are apartments that the camp loan fund used to replace people before and before and where it took place has not been obtained. They have indeed been buying and selling four or five times, and they are now on their way to Norway. We need to make sure that such a situation does not arise and that it will not happen again. We can't help it if people who have just got up after the end of the ten years since a crash or some other disaster. We need to make sure that these people are not again affected by the same things that have happened since the collapse of the first. By this measure, I'm going to say again that the Central Party supports all the practical suggestions offered by the government. The middle class has some good suggestions that would be needed for the government to listen to. We are willing to cooperate in carrying out this assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-13-73.u22	A respectable president. We're here on bill to legalize the laws on the local pay and insurance fees, postponement of dues. The group of people supports the whole mind as the first step, which is a small step in what needs to be done based on the disaster caused by the Covid-19 virus. We have to be careful not to panic. We should learn from the actions of the President of the United States, when setting up this groundwork, that we should not act hastily without thought and without fully establishing its consequences. We are under obligation to give good thought to things and to care well for the monotonousness of tourism and travel services. These are the most sensitive business people who are involved in the cessation of their job life. We must be careful that they can survive that time and come back strong. We also have an obligation, which may have been overlooked by most people, and it is not yet time to look after those who are weakest and unable to feed themselves, are sick at home, and are in poor financial condition because they do not have a pension or other means to cover their monthly expenses, but from month to month on contributions from medical institutions. It sucks to know they're such a big crowd. In this context, we can also point out that in the future there seems to be tremendous pressures on health care and in the clinics, especially when we looked at the fact that in one evening 12,000 people had already enrolled in a sample of Icelandic genetics. But I just tell people who have electronic IDs to go into health care. There, as far as I'm concerned, there's access to doctors, and there's a new drug, and going in there can avoid going to a health care facility where there is a higher risk of infection. I encourage all who can take advantage of this and find out because there are very good information there, and you can renew your certicates, prescriptions, and contact your doctor in a very simple and convenient way. And I speak strongly, saying, It cannot stand, that which was spoken in the mouth of the Lord. A senator before, postponing a raise. Remuneration rates were observed for the people at the lowest rate of pay and are likely to not result from receiving them raises. I can't see a way of putting them off. The contracts have been prepared and the people under the lowest salary will have their pay raise. I'm not going to keep this much further, but I hope this is just the first step and that we have the best way of doing things, so we don't get ahead of ourselves and cause more harm than is needed. Then I think we're all supposed to be able to get through this, and especially if we're on our side.
