ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u1	The president has received a letter dated October 6, 2020, from the chairman of the local Parliamentary Party of Archipelago, on the committees of the Parliament, as shown in Article 16. Congress. Sæland Goland takes his place in the National Council of Iceland rather than the Guðmundur of Ingi, the son of Kristinsson, who will be a deputy of that committee. Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson takes his place in the Western Council's Iceland rather than Inga Sæland, who will be a substitute on that committee. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u2	The president would like to state that there is an agreement between the presidents and members of the council that a meeting can last longer today than the council can expect, or until the discussion of the 2nd session is over, if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u3	Mr. President. In the present situation, it is necessary to start already projects that contribute to the growth of jobs and to increase the income in our society within 183/430 months so that income will be made in our country to pay off the loans we now have to take, i.e. Government funds, to keep society floating. There is therefore some concern that one more case of fish farms in Isafjörður, where rainbow silk is to be cultivated. As I understand it, rainbow trout does not mix with salmon and is outside a dryfish, so it should not be able to do any harm to fish stocks in the area. So it is totally incomprehensible that this is happening today. This process has lasted eight years. It's also a concern because recently a company named Matori at Grindavík obtained permission to expand the company by half of its employment and income. It has taken several years for the public institutions to do so. Third, Mr. President, reports that three different parties want to land on a very large and active farm near the village. It is a concern if such projects continue to exist in some administrative institutions for several years before projects can begin. Mr. President. When we, citizens and businesses, have government, government, government, and administrative institutions, we'll be happy to get business if we don't provide information at the right time. Perhaps it is time, Mr. President, to turn it around and use the administrative institutions, which do not provide the necessary decisions on time and time without having sound evidence. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u4	President. During last night's financial discussions, the secretary of finance got really upset that I was asking him out in the form and didn't think that was a practitioner. This is ironic, for he was a minister of finance when government financial laws were adopted. A financial minister has complained about this in the past and has needed time to implement the legal procedures. But the law is what it is. All the deadlines that were built into the law are expired. If it takes time to introduce the law to the secretary of finance simply to attend the council with a logical change in the law. A financial minister also finds himself on slippery ice when he criticizes a discussion about the form, reasoning that the process has not yet been introduced. There's some kind of ring-in-the-box thing where I can't quite figure it out. Of course, the discussion of the form is important. There is no need for important information from the European Commission on government policies and legal arrangements. I don't make fun of myself asking about the form except when it's important. I am, for example. not to complain that priests do not arrive twice a year in all of the country's homes as required by the house - to - house decree. The fact is, the minister of finance does not comply with official financial laws, as he did in his comments that the law did not introduce all procedures. For example, those who serve as minister of finance find it very beneficial to be able to resort to the terms "no illegal " and to be incompetent, of course, when it comes to not obeying the law. But not all harm is done yet. Today the Council may once again demand the missing data so that they can be taken into account in the Committee's work. I don't expect much success, for this question has been asked before, without answers being received. It's also illegal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u5	V.E.G. President. How can we let the seabed, which has been the nation's basic work over the years, increase our currency income income in those days when the income of tourism is nearly 100%? From the last year of fishing, about 6% of the decline is on the market. Retake of this impairment would mean an increase in currency costs. Despite current viral conditions, the market market price is at least In cod, at a historic level, which tells you that the demand for that fish is high. I realize how the fishing system works, about sustainability, and so forth. I've always spoken for a responsible fishing administration guided by sustainable fish stocks. I also know that the repertoire, which has been about 20% in recent years, is not a sacred number, but it has not been moved for many years. Why not? Is it possible that rural society will receive a share of hunting fees? Is that what the government wants? In my mind and many others, it is reasonable to think that part of the fishing fees that this city pays will go to the local community where it is registered. This is in opposition to the degree of detriment announced through the local branch funds. Coastal fishing has proved its worth, and for various reasons it is acceptable to that modeling party. If fishing warrants in the current fishing year were to become more frequent, the 48 days that each beach fishing boat is distributed are likely to take advantage of that development, i.e. that the pot would do it. I could go on and talk about ideas for a long time to increase the value of fishing, but my time has run out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u6	A respectable president. Land is a resource, land itself, soil and vegetation that thrives there. In addition, other quality, such as fishing and water rights, may be related. A land suitable for food farming and production is a limited resource to be maintained. The way we treat and use a whole country is important to all of us today as well as to future generations. Great public interests depend on decision-making and decision-making. Less than half of Iceland is national, while other areas outside the urban area are divided into land, or more than half of the country. Ownership of that country has to be with people who live and work in Iceland. In fact, this is one support for the nation's future independence. During this season, there has been a considerable discussion of geologic issues at the General Assembly, and in June there were approved legal adjustments that are very beneficial. These changes include in which there is an increased transparency in possession and prices of soils, restrictions on the size and number of soils owned by the same source, and the addition of a country file to be used as a control device. I believe, though, that the need to go far beyond that of ensuring the possession of the population of the country is much longer than it was done today, since foreign people still have a chance to buy a good land, seal it off, and destroy farms. We have to make sure that agricultural land is maintained in the breeding state and that we are motivated to live in rural areas and innovations in agriculture. In order to follow this, I will have a discussion of land and land use and put forth issues that require the use and management of agrienvironment schemes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u7	Mr. President. Governments, according to the debate of the last days, do not have a bearing on innovation and climate. Be careful not to mention that contributions to innovation have increased by 25 billion or 73% during the term. Nor can it be said that a model that takes into account trends and agreements, financial action by the government and the Allegis shows that we are making a success of our commitments under the 2030 Paris Convention. We have already managed to reduce the emissions by 6.7 percentages of the 29 that we are assigned in agreement with the EU and Norway, but we may achieve up to 40% contractions. A total of 2040 is realistic. Environmental expenditures have increased by 47% since 2017. Civil line and climate - positive changes in transport are a fact and also a green business, a business partnership, and the government on climate and green solutions. Energy exchanges, especially in transport, are available, and tax reforms are to carbon binding. Total waste disposal and recycling are in the vehicle. Can we tighten these measures? Yeah. And need it? For the world's sake. Does the government drag its legs into work with some sort of industrial - green economy as early as this century? No, they don't. I say: Critics are needed, but they support grammatical arguments instead of stamps or phrases that even go so far as to claim that the Icelanders are still adding to the release of greenhouse gases under the leadership of the government. This presentation isn't good. I'm telling you, the government is doing pretty well, both in innovation and in climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u8	V.E.G. President. By permission of the President, I have my case with a direct quote: So kids know how many holes are in the vagina, so many guys think girls pee out of their vaginas. To reduce the number of adolescents who become pregnant or have sexually transmitted diseases. This protects children from violence. So they know that pornography is not real sex. It is part of human rights to be instructed about their body. These words are part of a youth's plea for increased sexual education. Lately, I've been tracking a Instangram page called idiots. There are many fascinating things, and I encourage people to study it as soon as I thank the high officials for good and I need a little initiative. It has carried out powerful, grammatical, and good discussions about people's relationships, manners, and intimacy. Many challenges have been sent to the Ministry of Education and the State, and I rejoice that a minister has taken the ball and intends to continue working on these matters. It's quite strange today, and I was surprised when I began to consider these matters, that upstairs there are ideas that transvers people are people who change sex. It is crazy when it comes to correction. Or that people are either homosexual or homosexual. We are far more diverse than that. There's obviously work to do here. We need to learn more, and we need to discuss these matters more fully. Let us pray to our young ones to do so. They know what they're saying, and it's a real pleasure to see that they're affecting the politics and that they're putting their affairs into order. I'd like to quote a girl close to me who says, by permission of a president: It is particularly important to increase gay sex education because queer sex is also normal. As a queer girl, I feel very sorry for myself that queer instruction is as good as none. There's a job here, and I'm glad the Minister of Education has taken it on its own. Let's work together and improve our community [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. Egilsdóttir For a good charge, Ingil's Þórunn. I'd like to discuss some disease prevention procedures. Yesterday, a D.A. surgeon for health care ministers placed his memo on 12 teams for operations in the capital area. A number seven teams were doing sports, and it is recommended that the entire sports game be delayed by two weeks. I think this is something that people in our position, who look at things with common sense and want to resolve, can accept. During these two weeks, it might be possible to determine whether we are getting control of the situation and then to see how this vital sports can be continued, no matter what sports. All of us know the value of sports for young people, for their prowess, for our health, and especially for our entertainment in general, and there is no shortage in these times. But shortly thereafter, a health minister introduced regulations that are said to be based in all basic aspects of a disease - control doctor's memo. There has been a change in and in short, so as not to interfere further, football is permitted rather than other sports. The difference is that soccer is practiced outside the door and other sports inside the door, yet the swimming is banned, and that is a long list. This is not to promote the solidarity of a nation that is primarily in need of solidarity to survive. I have to say, I am excited to see how the Ministry of Health will respond to proposals from sports that have basically been doing their sport inside the door but are now offering to be out - of - doors. There must be some system of diabetics instead of random decisions when they also have great interests in so many. We have to trust that health authorities have some sort of rule, but they do not just run after those who call them high every time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u10	Mr. President. I'd also like to talk about disease prevention as soon as possible. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson just now. For what? We had the privilege of having the trident meet us this morning. First, I want to thank them for their fine work and thank them for keeping their bullets, as was said in my home yesterday by my teenager, thank them for somehow building trust in them and in the methods being used here on land, which are extensive and very strict. Disturbing information is a key factor when it comes to national solidarity and solidarity. Different rules apply to different areas of life, or like wind. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson said earlier, unlike sports, causes suspicion of the measures and actions being taken. It was the weekend that local gymnasiums would be shut down because of the epidemic and that they would stand up at Akureyri to say, "But there's no infection here. Can't the capital area be shut down? No, says the trident, because we want to try to prevent further spread of disease across the country. It won't do to just lock up here and get the infection back in your arms. Today's sports companies are also thinking about the messages that have been received, since there is no room for internal sports in the capital area, but those who practice the same sports programs in Cheflavík, U.S.A., Njardík, and Grindavík may continue their sports, regardless of where the athletes live who play the game. This makes me think only if we're back in the middle of some kind of information or order mess, and I think the government has to step in there and let our reason take over, not the mail number. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u11	A respectable president. Lately, we have been discussing financial and financial matters. There's been some amazing information. During an interview with a secretary of finance, he claimed that predictions of inflation and some extraordinary pay code should cause the poor to have a 3.6% rise by the next year. This would be a projection for the next year. But his financial plan clearly states: The next year's pay sheet is 5.2%. So how does he get out 3.6%? If we looked in the rearview mirror, we will see that last year the interest rate of older citizens should have increased by 7% or twice that of older citizens. The most important thing is that no matter where they come from, if there are income on another level, every last profit will be cut off by micro- or older citizens. I asked a minister, for example. With regard to inheritance, why would they have to survive for a year if we inherited an inheritance? One minister said: " Somebody must live up to this. ' Somewhere we have to get our income. That's the truth. The income is taken from those that should be least taken. They're letting the people living in this system hold up the system by a terrible chain reaction. The most remarkable thing about all of this is that the social minister says: "It's just higher according to the index, but we haven't heard from left green. They just tell us, and to the rest of you, you just have to wait a little while longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u12	Mr. President. The Secret Bank's Penitentiary stated this morning that the bank's interest was maintained for a time, based on its appearance as a more difficult time in the economic field in the months and years than expectations may have been. The report of the committee shows that the first part of the year was in a better way than we could expect, and this makes us happy. However, the money policy committee believes that by this fall, things are becoming more difficult to deal with, that it will be harder to deal with, and I don't think that in itself it will surprise no one when we face the circumstances in which we live. The results of the money policy committee are in line with what has been reported on the economy in the past few weeks. We're heading into a fairly difficult economic period based on employment and the like. On the one hand, of course, we need to respond, as the government has preemptively done, by emergency action that we can call, which includes trying to soften both the sector and the staff we know about. In the long run, it is clear that in order to restore the economy, to recover from this, to restore full-time work in the country, and to restore the economic growth, we need to take long-term general action to improve the work conditions of the enterprises. [[The president calls.]] In contrast, we will not be able to grow out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u13	Mr. President. At this morning at an open meeting of the administrative and surveillance committee, Páll Hreinsson made clear the opinion of a group that he worked for the government on governmental authority under social laws. I'd like to pause at one of the details presented in the ratings, which is the fact that much of the definitions of crossborder law and part of the material discussed are based on a reference to the WHO Regulation that has not been published in the Control News and is thus not fully validated as a legal authority. This law, which is crucial today, is based on an unsurpassed international agreement. In response to my inquiry during the last winter, some 300 international contracts were held waiting for publication, starting in 2007. However, the answer says that it is trying to speed up its release because it is a matter of proper action. But Páll's Hreinsson opinion shows that the foundation of a control law that has some right effect today is not as solid as it should be. Then, a respectable president, I wondered, " What position are we in when 300 contracts are ready, meant, waiting to go to an electronic display in government news, which is not the most complex process in the world, thinking? ' What is this situation? Why? The reason is that some internal deposit within the Board of Directors, one Ministry is paying another charge to publish in the Management News. It's a natural load of bullshit, a respectable president, that a word can barely cover it. The basic rights of the public are uncertain because we have created some sort of currency model between halls. [[The president calls.]] This needs fixing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u14	A respectable president. Recently, a number of people, at least tens, have been reported to sell their access to footage on the Web On medication. All kinds of material, including sexual intimacy, can be found there. It is inconceivable that some of the material contained there would not be pornography. People seem to be thinking about pornography, having ideas about sex in general, individualities, and personal matters. In fact, the definition of pornography itself is somewhat sharp. In a free democracy, however, there is access to pornography, whether people like it or not, an unchangeable fact. Increasing education, especially about communication and boundaries, is an essential part of our reaction to that situation, for while we cannot minimize pornography itself, we can minimize its negative effects. However, what I'm more concerned about is the legal standing of people who display pornography on pages as did On drugman herself. Since then, pornography is banned in Iceland, which is in front of me in liberal democracies. Now someone may want to point out that any part of that person is under compulsion, even if he is abused, and of course there is a danger. But are people to be punished for doing so? Whether people display free will - free or forced or abuse - pornography is never to punish them justly or to fail to protect people from abuse. However, this is what current 19th - century law on the prohibition against pornography does, in particular 210 C.E. a general penal law. Pornography is a controversial, forbidden subject, but we must show that we are mature in order to be able to discuss the issues of city rights and even victims of abuse.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u15	Mr. President. In view of the circumstances, the financial bill reveals an enormous increase in the budget we have never seen before. What are the priorities of the government? Today, when the number of virus infected people is growing, the regime also grows with empire growth. There is an outstanding growth in environmental management and not to mention the administration of the Ministry of Presidency. The newspapers are filled with advertisements for vacancies in the administration and recruitment. While governments talk about innovation, to promote research, national production, domestic industry, Icelandic agriculture, increase domestic vegetable production, and, of course, trust all kinds of infrastructure. Mr. President. Is there a proper way for all of this to increase large numbers in the councils and administrations above heads, mainly in the capital area? No, the booth is growing as never before in the government of Independence Party and Left Green. In climate, the government seems to travel without its destination. In order to pay a huge amount of money because of our lack of commitment to emissions and greenhouse gas binding, there are protesting measures that are at the top of the box. What's it like, for example? with increased forest for carbon binding? No, a government of premarital operations does not see the obvious; forestry is the simplest way to carbon binding, create jobs, save currency, and prevents us from paying the sky high climatic tickets.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u16	Today, there will be discussions about specific categories of subjects in which professional ministers participate in discussions and respond. The line has reached the highest subject range. The Minister of Justice of Áslaug Arna Sigurbjörnsdóttir, now speaking.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u17	A respectable president. In this speech, I bring up some of the government's major challenges to the Ministry of Justice rather than to discuss all the Department's lawsuits, as they are well understood in the existing financial programme and are being discussed here. During the time of this government's work, emphasis has been placed on promoting law enforcement in the country. The pay to the police is over 17 billion dollars. This year more than 6 billion. in the last five years. These extra donations include: as a result of border savings on the basis of the Schengen team and increased stress due to the growth of tourists. We have added money to other important issues, such as the treatment of sexual abuse in the justice system and the actions against money theft and organized crime. In the latter part, I would especially like to mention that, under the leadership of a state police officer, a newly appointed special control group intended to coordinate the work of the police on a special mission against organized crime. On the other hand, the operating group has been set up on the basis of a single police officer's office aimed at implementing preventive measures and testing and following up issues related to such violations. This group is made up of police officers from the largest police agency, who will have both the resources and equipment necessary for the project. The Platform Group is also aimed at promoting the cooperation of police with other governments who have tasks that may relate to this work. Organizational fracture activity has various manifestations irrespective of the districts and/or borders, and different governments may have tasks related to the seminary. As a result, it is urgent that the police rely on one another in all their efforts. I hope that this cooperation will result in a firm continuation of the establishment of the police council during the last year, which was designed to promote the cooperation and unity of the police against a unique police office. The police must increasingly appear as one united unit, and I believe that with increased cooperation, more money is being used not only but also more important cooperation to enable the police to take on more complex and more difficult subjects. A respectable president. Budgeting is a policy plan for how the Ministry intends to protect the financial resources of its environment in the most successful way in the community. I've been reporting in the past a huge increase of donations to the police and will continue to promote law enforcement in the coming years. Of the other major projects of the Ministry in the history of this financial program, I would like to mention 13.6 billion. K. increase in contribution to the target cost of building common housing for all affected people in the capital area. This is a facility for state police chief, the chief of police in the capital area, the National Guard, the Tollar Guard of Iceland, the Emergency Line, the Landsbuster Society, and the head of the Fire Department of the capital area. This may be up to 26,000 m2 housing and, contrary to these contributions, may also be funded for bridal prices that decline during the planned period. Some 10 billion dollars are expected. to the project. Temporary 150 million are also expected. K. contribution to the three-year rescue missions of the National Emergency Prevention Association. This common housing for all affected people in the capital area looks to an increased partnership and economic management of the strains and organizations of the capital. The current operation at the Forest Rescue Center is in small and unfashionable units and other institutions and offices in a facility that is ineligible and poorly suited for various reasons. In the new and shared facilities, there will be a number of support services as well as other factors, such as exercise status, parking position, remember storage, and so on. Despite the postponement of three new helicopters for the National Reservation Guard, recent contracts are in force by two much new and more intensive tenants. At the same time, it is intended to add a third, but with new helicopters and the increasing number of helicopters the ability to react has increased and the Agency is more able to perform its own surveillance. It is then assumed that the airport shelter at Reykjavík's airport will be expanded and its current construction will be torn up so that the clouds will be covered with maintenance and storage, and the current and future flight of the National Guard. As Minister of Justice, I have stressed the introduction of electronic solutions, e.g. for the administrative bodies where family services are urgent to be added to the synonyms and other forms of public records. Technology moves rapidly forward as the Commission of the EIC has been in place and must therefore take decisive action and see results in the next few months. There has been a project on an electronic justice puzzle in the Ministry last year, and it is now time for the first version of the solution to be placed in the air at the end of this year. This is part of the work Digital Iceland, which is one of the focus of the budget. A respectable president. This would have been a long story on the many projects that fell under the Ministry Department's seminaries, but I've been trying to get a big grip on some of the projects that are my subjects for some time. It is important to remember that the management board is available for the people, not vice versa. We want to simplify the lives of the public. We want to trust the foundations of the law and of all the public defences as shown in the past month's response, to promote and improve services, to emphasize efficiency and efficiency, to increase the cooperation of institutions and authorities and better use of funds. [[The president calls.]] At the same time, we make government business as practical as possible in the long run and reduce the cost of public service.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u18	Mr. President. I apologize for not reporting this change earlier. I know from my own experience that it's not comfortable to get a change in the puzzle on your own. I'd like to thank a minister for her entrance, and I'd like to ask her a little bit more about something I actually asked about a few days ago. There are the subjects of those who are waiting here and who have requested international protection. This section is on the budget of about 3 billion bucks. Which is a lot of money. V.E.G. In her reply to me the other day, a minister indicated that she had the goal of setting up a permanent place for people who are here for this purpose, for candidates for international protection, for them to be in a safe environment, and not to stay all around and even hiding here and there for society. The question is, Will a minister do this and be able to give us an example of how this is being done elsewhere in neighboring lands? In addition, I'd like to ask the minister if any of her institutions are in any way investigating whether this country is a sneering group that benefits people from moving to Iceland, which, of course, is nothing more than a man's room. It's only been flying for people to be importers in need. I'll say again, chief. Minister: There is nothing but manloe and human contempt, and I would like to know if the Minister's institutions are doing something about these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u19	A respectable president. Just a few days ago, I would say, "What?" A senator who referred to what is done in other countries rather than to the fact that this is on a smaller Senate file or in progress in the Ministry. I told them that such a procedure is always an opinion, the manner of the forcedness arrangements being made in loyalty to the execution of a decision. You can find out at 105 str. legalize foreigners with the arrangements made by the police, including decisions on how to report, stay in certain areas, and then be under protective custody. The way this is done today is very clear in the alien law. Our project, as well as the financial program, is to try to better identify the costs of the seminary, which have developed rapidly in recent years in order to be able to accept better the people who come here, in order to reduce the number of people who are in the service each time and are waiting for their release so that things will work out better. That's a big project, of course. We never know how many people are looking here each year, and our system must be prepared for that number by answering quickly those who have negative results and do not need to be protected and also to respond quickly to those who need protection so that they can start a successful adjustment to society sooner. This is the project ahead, that our system is more flexible and efficient. Of course, we can see in this financial program if we compare it with others, that the cost has gone up. That's what I'm talking about. At the end of this visit, a senator is part of an organized crime that I did well earlier and is especially being involved in.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u20	Mr. President. I'd also like to ask the highest. Minister to law enforcement. There is a slight recession between those years, although it differs from the police department. I've previously described the most formidable situation in the city of Reykjavík in this regard. The law here, i.e. Civil service, from the turn of the century onward and from the number of police officers on duty in the general law enforcement departments, has been culminating in what was 20 years ago. This is naturally very serious because it's about the safety of the citizens and we see increases in the number of serious fracture groups. But the main cause of concern or concern is the fact that the police are now being reorganized in the country, being built up a new organization, and the Council is not involved. I see a bill from the highest. Minister of Congress. So now the Ministry of Justice, the State Marshal, and the Minister are running a new organization for the local police. That is likely the third or fourth occurrence of such activity in 20 years somewhere in some office building away from the General. I believe, Mr President, that the Council should have an active part in the planning of the country's law against the citizens. That's why I'm asking the highest. A minister of state whether she intends to give extra money to the city police in Reykjavík, even though the budget does not recommend it, it may be a change in her proposal. I also ask if she intends to consult more with the Council on Police Building for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u21	A respectable president. I have to disagree. A senator that reportedly lost the law in the capital area. Law enforcement is just different than it was years ago, you can't compare it together. We used to have police here and there, but now we have grown greatly in certain departments, such as sexual crime and Internet crime. The law is changing, and apples and oranges cannot be compared when we talk about police from 20 years ago to now. The work of the police, its grounds, and the way modern law enforcement is, is very different from anything that happened a few years ago. In the last five years, we have an enormous amount of money to the police, about 6 billion in which we have to make good use of it. There have been priorities in increasing border security, in organized crime, in sexual violations, in the number of tourists, and in highland security - all new challenges that are important for our police to be prepared for, not just for this public law enforcement on the streets as well as for them. A senator speaks of as the only law that matters. Because of what? A senator enters a new police organization, but it's not like you're breaking up and changing all that organization. I've announced that police should be under closer surveillance and changing any aspects of the law, but there's no one breaking up the entire police organization. Rather, we've been covering the office of the State Marshal. There, at the beginning of the year, a Víðir Reynisson of efforts was made to identify the project, and the new organization is being established, how it is directed, what tasks there are, and how we can make the best use of the funds in the police department at all these places. We want the U.S. police to be extremely good in all these areas of law enforcement, which includes all the special and new service that the police need to be in position to perform, and we have promoted in this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u22	A respectable president. I agree with that with the highest. Ministers that indeed the activities and character of the law enforcement force in the country have changed. As the work continues to change, we need to take into account the realities of our day and of our changing social life. Money money to the police in the capital area is raising only 100 to 200 million. K. every year for the next two years. There is another concern in this trend, and the number of educated police officers has been greatly reduced. If a number of uneducated policemen are taken with them, the number appears to be standing in the police room and the percentage of uneducated police officers and police students in the last few years has increased dramatically, but in 2019 it was nearly 16%. Now I'm asking the highest. Whether in today's professional situation, a minister is not in the best interests of adding extra force to further police training in order to increase the number of educated police officers. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, whether it is necessary to force it and put more money on it and to point it to the highest degree. Ministers to the leading inquiry on the need to meet complex realities by increasing police education.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before us, and I agree that one of our goals is to increase the number of educated policemen. That is why we established a stronger and more powerful study to cope with the varied reality of police officers whom I discussed in the previous conversation. Modern lawkeeping is a major factor in the variety of changes. The program is that there are 40 law enforcement officers in school each year, which were about 20 first, to remind me, so they have been increasing. It is very important that this trend continues in force with the need for educated police officers throughout the country. We've been increasing in research departments, and we've funded a sex offender's operation plan, we've increased to detectives and to all organizations as a result. Of course, it needs to be evaluated in harmony with the law plan available to the need, and especially in this situation, to ensure that we are fully involved and to ensure good care for the police throughout the country. I think the step on school was good. When we get to school, it is to look back and see what has been done well and what needs to be improved. We do this all the time, for example, with a more varied course of study to meet the needs of modern - day law enforcement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u24	President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. My second question is similar to that of questions. A member of the Central Party earlier, i.e. I'd like to step aside a little bit from applicants' affairs about international protection, the trustees. I understood a minister so early that she had in her reply the other day merely described how these people were in neighboring countries where the workers had been a special camp, there is no other way to call it a second, a trustee's camp; that she would have only described how this is done there, but it was not to say that there was to set up such a camp on the land. It's happy that it doesn't exist, and I believe that, in fact, the facilities of the people who are looking here for many obvious reasons are improved. However, the contributions made to this case group of candidates for international protection are not to be taken into account. If it is not to try to gain greater practicality through the construction of such stores, the question arises: How will the government respond to others, as the government has declared to be a reality, and how it will be better to receive more if no more money is to be added to the seminary? And it is noteworthy that only 80 million are being raised between 2000 and 2021.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. I reiterate that what I referred to, on the implementation of all European and Northern countries, is carried out by the European Commission Directive, which is the deportation directive so called, on agricultural measures, when all other smaller resources are emptied. It hasn't been legalized here and it's not in a Congress file, but it's still part of the Schngen protocol that we've entered and committed to aim for. Of course, we always examine how we can do things better. One of the reforms needed to deal with children who are fleeing, especially homeless children, how we can make them better. That work is in the final meters, and it's been in the Ministry for a long time. Of course, with regard to budget and financial programs on these matters, we need to look back. Only six years ago, the group spent some 600 million in total, at this time the cost of about 4 billion. We need to realize that we need to make better use of this money and that those who need protection will be protected in our system. It doesn't matter how many people come, those who need protection, those who fall under that definition, are given protection in Iceland. That's how our system works. We need to be ready for flexibility and create a system that provides a faster protection for those who need it, but it also answers a more negative conclusion. We need to be able to provide more space for those who need protection, and they need answers earlier in our system. It is absolutely clear that the hospice that has been taken from the Foreign Institute and is specifically defined has gone up and must always be promoted in the support of increased services. We see that this year and last year the service is more than expected, since more people are waiting for a conclusion. Of course, it is the money we would like to try to reduce. We want people to get their answers sooner so that they can go to the right places rather than just protect them from those who are waiting for a conclusion from our system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u26	Mr. President. Only because of this discussion, although it is not what I was going to ask the highest. Minister of Justice to the top. I just want to say that in this category, I feel very important that we look to people with human kindness and treat them with respect. We should not look to the countries that have walked with overforcing and disrespectfulness toward people in a very difficult situation. But, Mr. President, what I would like to ask the highest. The Minister of Justice is what has to do with the issue area 9, a public security and justice. This is one of the classes in which financial programmes show that the change in budgets for the project is within the framework. This may fall a little between a ship and a dock during the discussion, where there is no rise or decrease in financial contributions. This does not mean, however, that the matter is not being addressed. Of course, it does mean that the matter is on the agenda and that the matter is being handled. Because there's been talk of police activity, I'd like to add that even at police school, it's important that police students study. magazine on racist and exposés of foreigners in Iceland, as well as on the circumstances of disabled people. This needs to be taken into account in the police school. It is discussed in a financial programme that the State Attorney conducts seminars and seminars for accusers in order to increase the quality of prosecution. I just want to pray to the highest. Ministers to review how these matters are being handled. This is one of the stuff that's within the Ministry's budget but is still working on, and we've been discussing it here for years, including Due to cases related to violence against disabled women.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. It is clear, of course, that we are always trying to make better use of the money that has been donated and to consider how we can do better in these matters, to increase the quality of the prosecutors and the others. and to promote the prosecution for handling these matters. A class that will be held for good. A senator points to - of course, there is always an effort to improve the quality of such courses. I keep in mind when Dr. Margrét, sociologist and doctor in the crime studies and lecturers in police school came particularly to the police council this winter to discuss racialism and prejudice and such with the police officials just to take further how we could fight racial prejudice in law enforcement. Then, of course, there is an operation plan on the treatment of sexual abuse within the justice system, which is so much of what we've done for and made up of, and the electronic hearings that will speed and shorten the handling of all cases. We see some of it going on right now this year. The data will then be accessible across the institutions, we will have a better perspective on the system, cut short all processes, memorized paperwork, and thus cut short a time of treatment, which is very important in sexual crime, as well as in others. That was 400 million years of action, in the sexual abuse program. There has been an increase in the number of officers every office to promote research departments, which, of course, also promote and shorten the procedure and improve the quality of the work done by the police right now, because of the inquiry that came from earlier. paritaprevir Sæmundsson, so important to the civilians who go to the police because of sexual abuse.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u28	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister's answers are very important to note whether the funds being put in this sufficient and whether the changes are being made and the adjustments in procedures may even indicate that in some areas, there are still more to be increased when it comes to these matters. I hope we all agree that when it comes to creating sexual abuses, the whole case, from the hands of both the police and the prosecution, is at best. The financial agenda considers the situation and the criteria for the proportion of people who have been sexually abused and reported to the police, but there is no record of it in 2019 C.E. The highest. Minister only explained why these tests are not available? It's very important that we have them because the criteria work out that there are others who report to the police. And then, because it also shows in the program that the Ministry of Justice regularly asks for data on the implementation of an action programme involving studies and the level of sexual abuses. Ministers have considered how to get the information and information that the Ministry is getting to us in the Senate so that we can rather follow along in this series of issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. Of course, a senator will agree that we need to look at the legal resources that go to this category and especially use it better and that it follows the developments that we see in law enforcement as well as in others. For the fact that there was a percentage missing for 2019 I'd expect it to be soon. They're changing and strengthening the registration of the police in the capital area, so it's more urgent, and we can make it easier to compare numbers and have a summary of the cases in our justice system. This will make a big difference in electronic hearings that are discussed in the financial budget. So I hope that these numbers will both be here soon and that they will rise. We see that only 7% of sexual cases were reported in 2018, and the goal is very clear: to increase over the years. At the Ministry of Justice, we regularly call for data on the plan of action, especially what may be done better and how the development has been. It may be noted that this is different when a case falls, not just by letter, when sexual immorality has been reported. As for a project ahead of them, one matter in my Constitution of violation tolerance is intertwining a number of factors to strengthen the level of violation resistance in such matters. I'll follow up on it, and it's probably all right to inform the council more about the data I've called after and the position of the action programme and, of course, the rest and the figures that are then received of the reported violations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u30	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers only out in the affairs of those seeking refuge, you see the long waiting period mentioned here, sometimes in conjunction with the expense of their waiting time and in the other way with the foreigners in general and the interests of the trustees. Today, the Constitution of the bill, which includes a very similar description, if not exactly the same, as shown in various primes, from the fact that I took my first place here in 2013, and its aim is to improve efficiency in shortening the treatment of trustmakers. What I've been thinking about all this time, and is hoping that now there's going to be some change in the type to meet it, is that there's always trying to get more for my money. There has not been an understanding so far that more money can be gained back. The problem I can see is that for all this time, there has been an all - time effort to improve efficiency, in fact, by means of the means that those who take advantage of the opportunity of enjoying their full rights on the floor. Less effort has been made to strengthen the Foreign Institute and change that institution so that it can handle the project better. The cost is revealed by the time people wait for all this terrible time. By putting more money in the Foreign Institute - and indeed, I would like to make very radical changes in that institution if it wasn't simply united by another institution, e.g. A national file - we can be more effective in shortening this list without constantly changing the laws and rules so that it is the source of the trustees themselves. That's for the very best. Minister to promote the Foreign Institute with money, I mean increasing money so that the Agency can improve its role and reduce the scope of this list?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u31	V.E.G. President. I agree with that. A senator that with more money, we should be able to shorten the time of the court treatment, the time people wait for an answer to be questioned. Of course, in recent years, if we look back a few years, we have become involved in many matters. Whether you look at the amount of money you receive or the number of candidates you are looking for, we see tremendous changes in the entire group of languages. It's not right. A senator said that there were significant changes in the law. We're looking at a legal environment set here in a transnational agreement. It is the law that we follow today, and it has become experienced. Of course, we are comparing ourselves with other countries too. Where are we different? In what ways are our laws not in harmony with the order of our neighboring countries, e.g. Somewhere else in the North? And how can we answer people in general who have negative conclusions? That is why the matter is in the Constitution for changing not only in the international security system but also in the Marketing Authorisation System, etc, to try to speed up the treatment in the general situation of negative results. That bill has continued in progress after its last efforts and is being employed in the Ministry. After the financial experience, we moved the international Guardians outside so that there could be an increase in those areas in particular to focus on this long list and why people wait so long. Then it's no longer only under the Foreign Institute and Department, and I think that this will help us understand the scope of the situation. [[The president calls.]] Of course, all of us want to do well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u32	A respectable president. I was trying to intercept an answer to that question in answers to the highest. Ministers and others. Senators. But now I get the same thing, I don't feel like I'm getting an answer. Is it not true that when I first stepped in here as a member of the Parliament, it is to strengthen the Foreign Institute with enormous funding to meet this lifetime problem? In order to develop knowledge and experience with lower staff skills and such, the staff should have sufficient pay. It follows, and it knows everyone who knows this party well, that the persistent crisis is going on and has been here for years. In fact, it has lasted so long that it is normal, and it is always being tried to cope with the occasional growths of the other country, or to respond to these or other circumstances, by making legal adjustments in order to improve efficiency in the particular problem at that particular time. Does that not describe the situation we are in today? The crisis continues. Yes, yes, the highest. While a minister may boast of some number that have dropped in the last few years, people still wait for a year to conclude with rather simple applications at the Foreign Institute. It's ridiculous, more dignified president, but somehow we're used to it. Today, billions are joined by the group that everyone complains about, whether they want more humanity or less in foreign affairs. This is a waste, a respectable president, because people in this position can have so little share in society, apart from very little knowing their future prospects or where they will have to build up their future. It's a waste. This waste can be reduced by promoting the Foreign Institute. So I ask again if it doesn't exist. I don't understand an answer. A minister has a way of doing so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u33	A respectable president. We've promoted this party, if we just look at the money, from six years ago, from 600 million to 4 billion. We have specifically taken out the number of people involved in global protection to reduce the number and increase the number of staff as needed, in order to have a more flexible system, in order to manage the number of people that come here each time, which is very different between years and months. The average waiting time here is shorter than in the countries around us. We demand more of our system with clear time limits. If the system is unable to respond to individuals within a certain period of time, we will grant a humanitarian license. Because we make rich demands on our system to respond well and early, there are deadlines that are not known around us. We have a 10- to 12-month period and a 15-month extension for certain matters. Most cases are done long before that deadline goes by, long before. We're running out of cases four to 17 days in our system. Another one, maybe three or four months. Then, in particular, we're talking about Dublin and Protection, and then it's these big treatments that take the longest time and are running out in months, but the average time at the National Institute of Iceland is long within a year. I wholeheartedly agree with that. Senator that we need to make this system more efficient for people who are applying. It is the goal of these changes because it involves humanity.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u34	Mr. President. I'm going to join the group of those who have discussed the treatment period, which, of course, has been in the dough in this hall and in all general discussions. This word, a court treatment period, is often heard in the context of the circumstances of families who have come here for flight or to seek a better life. All I think we understand how waiting for a response that will affect the entire future of people. Uncertain, insecurity, and endless wait. But I want a hearing period to come on, too, to become a regular part of non-elderly politics. There has been no need for governments to provide sufficient protection for the legal system in this respect, the system obtained, e.g. for sexual abuse. This is a problem I would like to allow to say, in itself, about every category of offenses there is to treat. A time of treatment will also affect people who wait for an answer. A woman who is severely raped cannot decide whether the case will be judged until one year later or even two years later. Insecurity, anxiety, and an endless wait. The same applies to a child who experiences the worst offense we can imagine. It takes place again when children are treated in a children's house to cope with the trauma of violence. Many months wait today for a child to arrive. It's a long time in a child's life. Because of the length of the trial period, cases of serious sexual abuse are softened. It happens over and over again. This great waiting period has many consequences. Yet, these matters are priority in the system. There, people who work as fast as possible without the benefits of a court order. However, we observe that cases involving serious criminal cases, sexually involved, are softened by the time of the trial. I'm asking the highest. Minister of Justice whether we are getting to the point of talking about more than our goals, whether or not we are going to expand to the general law, to the prosecution, and to the courts, to prevent this situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for discussing a time of treatment in these matters, for it is just as important to shorten it, without having to do so on the subject of investigation. But, of course, we've been up to the problem of sexual abuse in the system, a team for a team, the whole system for the past few years. We've put up extra money for the research departments of all police services, where all of them raised money in these departments were set up to attack this long trial period. I also have hopes that electronic courts will help to speed things up because they make things simpler, they make it easier to read. This will shorten the system's processes. In this way, we should also see that there is room for others to care for these difficult matters when we are, for example, in our case. The country's entire custodian system begins to be electronic, and so do other things. So I think we can see a lot of changes in this thing through electronic services such as so many other things, and as this government has put so much emphasis on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u36	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice is eager to answer, and it is true that much good has been done, especially within the system. However, the speed, the duration of treatment, remains a problem, not a past one. We see the example of this in a regular way when we read judgments in criminal matters. The aim of the courts in financial programmes is described as having the legal security and basic rights of all, that legal rights are to be trusted by granting access and fair treatment. The seminar is not specifically mentioned in this section, but it is, of course, that there is an independent right to act as a defendant, and there is increasing emphasis on this right within the legal system in the country as well as in the outside. I mention this in the context of the fact that the social consequences of such an economic situation, as we now have, are many. I won't be surprised if there's an ever - increasing crisis with police officers, prosecutions and courts. We immediately see evidence of this, of increased domestic violence, and history teaches us the same thing. The case may refer to the fact that the prosecution could not give explanations of the delay. But the answer is no more complex than the failure of the system. The sex offenders are very difficult to study. Many of these are dropped, with relatively few leads to judgment. Then it is unannounced that men who are convicted for such a serious offense may be less punished, less judged than court officials believe would have been normal just because of a court order. I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister of Justice to descend here and respond. The solution to this problem is not pardoned by a minister of justice. I give them away from the rights of the defendants, but they are taking the consequences, not the root. Electrical emphasis and improvements are good, but they alone will not solve the problem. But this problem is clear: It in itself is not a complicated solution. It is sometimes a matter of construction and setting, but sometimes the problem is more complex than that, with more hands on deck and more money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. Of course, there is a persistent problem if the people are not to be granted their legal rights until a long time, and this, of course, needs to be carefully monitored. We carefully observe the court treatment period and have specifically emphasized that it is not severely affected by the Covid-19 and the criteria for meeting and the many limitations that have existed in the community during the past few months. That is why I proposed changes in electronic treatments by courts and will suggest that the preliminary access be extended, has provided a very good opportunity to keep the number of cases possible in the courts at any rate in the ordinary, without a pandemic. I will, of course, continue to work toward this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u38	A respectable president. We are now discussing the affairs of the Minister of Justice. I want her information on the fact that once again the helicopter needs to be postponed, and instead of renting helicopters, I want to rent one more helicopter instead of TF LIFE. Is rent prices really so favorable that it pays to rent a helicopter instead of to buy? In this regard, it is proper to remind you that despite everything, the rate of Kingdom interest is still good, so you would have thought that the money would be worth it. Buying a new helicopter has been available for many years, but it must always be delayed for some reason. The government managed to postpone it in the best of the year, and now it is to be postponed in Covid, which I consider wrong because of the cost of both helicopters being a practical and a lender. Then I want to ask the highest. Minister on passports. Why don't we pick up passport surveillance on the border? Why is it not so decided on the border that we need to show passports and that governments know exactly who will come to the country? It's only less than a year since I was leaving Denmark to Germany and had to show passports. Therefore, there is an incomprehensible phenomenon that can be brought into this country without showing passports, especially when it is said that there is an increase in international crime. It must then be a self - righteous thing to know exactly who will come to the land and be able to observe.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u39	A respectable president. First with regard to the helicopter of the Land Guard, I thought it was a logical decision to postpone the decision for one year to make that decision so that the funds that would otherwise have been taken in an investment within the country could be used, not for helicopters outside. These contracts are very favorable, and we can rent other helicopters to have three full - time helicopters and to postpone buying for some time if such a decision is made next year. But it may depend on the position of the State Fund and more. I thought it would be wise, because at the same time, we achieved the same goal, to keep the state of the field guard that we want, to have three fully equipped helicopters. It's just a different situation that causes this as I've gone over and that's why it's going to be re-established next year. As for passport control, we're in Schengen together, and that doesn't include internal border patrols like that. A senator goes over here. However, this has been added to the local border control, including the U.S. in cooperation with Schengen. The information network now working to become a revolution in these topics for all countries, which is integrated with the information system of all the Schengen countries, and will in line with complete monitoring both within and outside the region.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u40	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Answers, but I'd like to point out that Danir is also in Schengen, and they took out passport control and Swedes as well. So there should not be much problem for us. One thing I went through with the plans for the future, but I can't find any, and I can't find one of the highest case files. Minister, and I'm asking if she's been living up there, and that's changing money into damage laws. People are being badly damaged by accidents, whether they are traffic accidents or other accidents, for the benefit of insurance companies. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Why, on the contrary, has this not been corrected? When will she correct this? Is that not in her plans for the future? How can it justify remembering up to 3 million each year's losses? It is not a financial bonus, so these changes should not be quickly complicated in any way. I believe, by law, this should be true. That's for remuneration. If it pleases her, she in itself could bring about a short case for the people whom we have submitted and entered the council. It could be accepted, and if the government saw to it that it would be approved, these changes would have been implemented.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u41	A respectable president. Hv. A senator referred to several countries that have adopted internal border surveillance but there is only a very short period of time under the very strict rules of Schengen State due to specific circumstances. This has been done to some extent when we were setting up the treatment strategy on our border, but it is not possible for the long term. Hv. A senator then referred to a talk about reform height, which, of course, is quite varied. One of the bill of my Senate book is about financial sums, where the first step is being taken to speed up the improvement and to reduce the number of judicial cases due to a conflict. These are reforms and improving their management for tolerability. It's simple for all the treatments in certain cases. Hv. A senator is talking about pay development and other things that need to be better involved and is something we have not been able to achieve, including ... but I believe this bill, which simplifys these improvements, is a good first step to change damages.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u42	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister to a group of lawsuits that are relevant to the individual rights, i.e. Personal protection. With an approved new law of 2018, water divorce in the national Surgeon Department has increased, with subsequent increases in the number of languages and misunderstandings at Peronour Protection. I'd like us to ask ourselves, " Is the financial rights to follow this trend properly? ' The budget is based on 2016, with a budget of 101 million. K., and then 2019 C.E., when there were 288 million budgets. K. I wondered if 2018 was perhaps a better reference year, the year when the new law went into effect. Then there were just over 200 million legal documents. K. and they're on budget bill for the next year, 290 million. K. This year's pay will be reduced to real value. This is what I would like to read in relation to the protocol's target of a shortening treatment period where there is no determination for a steady state between the introduction and the lid of the year until 2025, at the end of the schedule. Is that acceptable? Don't you think it's necessary to take much bigger steps? Personal protection was profitable when the new law went into effect. They had to earn a lawsuit, they had to pay a debt to the institutions, which consisted of years of subjugation. But does this not have to happen much faster than it would have to be so that after five years, seven years after new laws on personal protection have come into effect?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u43	A respectable president. Hv. There's a senator over the watershed conditions that were legalized into the new law 2018. At that time, the Agency's staff number had doubled and had been corrected for the anticipated budget at any given time. A senator mentioned, for the enunciation of the new law. Then the law came, and then it was added further. Ten years ago, only 20 million were involved. A., so it needs to be considered in some context. This does not mean that the challenges are inadequate, and the court treatment period is long, but the funds to the Agency do not decrease, as it were. A senator mentioned, rather, is just a general economic crisis in Perone Protection as well as any other. Of course, there are challenges in this and other areas, and it is vital that we keep moving ahead in our efforts to discuss the issues that come to our heart. Of course, we also need to look back when we have experience in the law and ask ourselves, " Am I going to do something further? ' Are these too burdensome laws for companies and the public here that have considerable experience with this new law that we adopt because of the European Commission's plans? I think this review needs to take place to see if it also comes under a simpler procedure.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u44	A respectable president. Because of the highest. Minister said it wasn't right to be reduced to Perponist, that's just something I read out of the budget bill. By permission of the President: For the trial period of 2021, there is an estimated 29.1 million. K. ... andlowsup 14.9 billion. K. From the current budget... - Downstairs. That's not my word. These are the words of the Minister. But I didn't mean to stay. I just wanted to talk about foreign affairs, because the situation of the trustees and refugees is often discussed in other parts of the tribe of Iceland. Hearing, e.g. often mentioned when protesting how few applicants are given the protection, that they just need to increase the possibility of coming and receiving a standard living permit. That is why I miss such coverages in the chapter on foreign languages, which are in three pages but only one brief paragraph on visas. There is no discussion of some sort of change in policy, however, that one has heard the minister resort. Is there no word on any such changes in the Ministry? Something else that I miss and that I would like to ask about an independent general human rights institution, which is a very important legal arrangement for the public being introduced as a legal scheme in March 2019. Since then, there's been no word from her, so I'd like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u45	A respectable president. Hv. A senator refers to a reduction in the budget to the Persian Protection Agency. This was a temporary work that fell from year to year, on the structure of technology, which normally does not need to be bought every year. Then comes the general economy, just like anywhere else, so that they can be maintained. With regard to the situation in foreign affairs, I agree. A senator needs to look to other parties, and I've mentioned it. We've been discussing a work permit to be considered here. They fall under a social minister and therefore are not on the financial program of the Minister of Justice or on the subject. But I think it's important that we consider that it's easier for individuals to come here and work, that we look at the employment permits for individuals outside Europe and that there's no room to do better and make changes. That's what I think, and I've held it up, and I'll keep it up, even if it's not on my case. Therefore, there is no specific discussion of such a change in the legal level of the legal rights of the budget. Finally, the reason is why. A member of the National Human Rights Agency, which is recommended to set up here. This requires financial support, and it is clear that we are trying to do better for the same money and have to do it in these matters as well as for others. So there is no plan to get such things started this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u46	V.E.G. President. The world's epidemic crown virus has been a major factor in our lives over the past few months. As a matter of fact, the age is closely related to the environment. The increased risk of transmission of infectious diseases such as Covid-19 from wild animals in humans is as human population has become confined to the habitats of many species. This needs to be considered in all international discussions. In the current financial programme, significant injections are to be made for new and increased projects on environmental issues. The financial program that is now being discussed will further increase to specific projects that support its emphasis. The total budget of environmental products under the bill for financing of 2021 and a proposal for terms of terms of financial management for a 2020/2025 total of 24.3 billion. in 2021. This has led to an increase of 47% in the prices of 2020, 2017 through 2021. It's happened on watch of the left green. The total budget of the topic field is expected to be 25.3 billion dollars. in 2025, a 23.1% increase over the budget of 2020. Climate change will have increased by 13.9 billion. From 2017 to 2025, including the $3 billion. An increase in the financial program we are now discussing and is due to government investments due to the crown - viral epidemic. It should be noted that in the current program 300 million dollars are expected. increase in annual contribution to climate 2021 and 2022 and 500 billion. K. in 223 C.E. The added financial support for climate is intended to speed up transport energy exchanges and to reduce functional activity, contribute to innovation and increased carbon binding with greater capacity of healing, recovery of ecosystems and new forestry. The budget for a wide range of projects for the protection of nature and sustainable innovation will be spent for continued infrastructure and land management up to 10.5 billion dollars. has been spent in addition to nature protection in the long term of this government. In order to comply with government plans for the establishment of a highland park, there will be nearly $3.3 billion. devoted specifically to him during the period of 2021 families2025, e.g. by structure of wood and operation. It is estimated that during the period there will be a higher budget of 8 billion dollars in total. with the aim of the completion of their building work in 2030. The next year, about 2.7 billion will be planned. to the project. Increasing to green innovations in the interest of the cycle economy is 1.7 billion. during the period. This increase is part of the government's special investment campaign for the crown virus epidemic. The function of the cycle system involves responsible production and consumption, reducing waste management by preventing waste production and helping improve its treatment by recycling and recycling. Next year, 500 million will be set aside. to the menstrual economy including will be attacked against food waste, plastic pollution, and waste in a textil. There's a call on the government's policy declaration to get into the hold. This financial program assumes 2.8 billion dollars. as supportive support for rural society to improve the CA status. The project is part of the government's investment campaign and is expected to be able to apply for strength to meet part of the cost of irrigation projects until 2030. The project was actually started this year with 200 million dollars. budgeting and next year 800 million dollars are expected to be donated. to the project. There is an increase in the number of other projects that accounts for more than 1.7 billion. During the period as part of the government investment campaign, thinking of building and strengthening the infrastructure to improve security and response time, including by restructuring and rebuilding weather views and monitoring systems. Furthermore, to strengthen the development of organizations in connection with government action due to storms in December 2019 V.E.G. President. I welcome the attention and coverage that environmental and climate have been received in general discussions over the past few years. I find that less than half of the increase in budget money from the state's budget to the topic area of this government's work shows clear political emphasis. These are basic and needed priorities for financial gain.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u47	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for his history and also for the opportunity of having a word with him on matters of his subject. I'd like to make a few cases, first of all, to mention that during the last two members of the council, I have proposed a resolution that a minister will know the practicality of being built up by a high-tech dump or stopped. The proposal has not yet been granted release at the council. In view of the fact that so far most of the garbage from us has been destroyed, and we are talking about tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of tons of garbage each year. What has not been sent abroad is unclear what will happen there, whether it is recycled, beaten, or burned, or even sent to other countries. In view of this, I believe it is necessary to examine the practicality of taking care of our own waste and its dangers, to recycle it as much as possible, and to burn what remains in the most environmentally appropriate way. Although this proposal for a high-tech dump in this country has not been granted to the council, I would like to use this opportunity and have a place to speak at the highest level. Environment Minister to inquire of his position on this matter, to my proposal to investigate the practicality of building here on a waste dump that will be equipped to burn our waste in this country as environmentally as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u48	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the inquiry and discussion that we often have here. So to answer, I've had a job or it's been working now for the Ministry review of the options of setting up a burning station, i.e. If we get to it primarily by what need we will need, when we have reached our recycling targets, which are supposed to be about 50% this year and 55% by 2025, but we have not yet achieved that goal. If we look to the future and assume that we will achieve these goals, what is the need for such a dump? This also needs to be considered in the context of the incineration of animalbells that fall in many parts of the country, and I expect that soon this report will be concluded. It is clear that incinerator stations are expensive, and it is uncertain whether the rural communities would be able to cope with it on their own. If this proved to be a promising option or something necessary, special attention would need to be given.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u49	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for this answer, and I'm pleased to hear the Ministry and the Supreme Minister. The minister and the government are going to examine this idea or my proposal and have come a long way to investigate it. V.E.G. A minister says it's a question of who the need is. Of course, there will always be a need for waste. People talk about recycling, men talk about recycling, and I think it's clear that garbage cannot be recycled to the point where there's no waste that needs to be disposed of. I'm talking for incineration of this, it's actually fuel, burning fuel in the most environmentally possible way. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister on the results of climate action. The government will contribute large sums of contributions, such as the Minister came in, to climate, and there I'd like to talk about, asking the highest level. Minister on results. The result? Is it measurable? What are your goals? Where are we going? As everybody knows, I may not have to spend many words in it, we are going on transportation, i.e. A national vehicle vehicle and an electric vehicle will feed it. What are the measurable objectives of that procedure compared to other measures, such as A carbon link? Why is it that the government is no longer working to bind carbon in a far more powerful way than it is, and its policy is? I've talked about growing forestry, which is the only practical procedure that we can meet in our international commitments. [[The president calls.]] It is the only practical operation to bind carbon in the quantity necessary, so we do not have to land on paying sky high tickets for pollution. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u50	V.E.G. President. This question is about goals, policies, and achievements in climates, and the use of forestry - based carbon binding is particularly involved. The objective of the European Union's joint target has been by the United States, by the year 2030 as compared to 1990, and is our 1990 action program now published in June to show that the results will be achieved and better. But it is clear that in the coming years, the demand will be expanded, and the expected countries will be obliged to submit their future goals now and that they are starting to gather to the climate agreement. Of course, Iceland will be involved, so we can assume that we will be setting more ambitious goals right now or at the start of the next year. But then, as noted many times, we naturally aim for a noncarbon object in the year 2040. As regards progress, the EEA's preliminary figures for 2019 or they indicate that we are reaching a 10% decline when it comes to wastes. We're catching up to 2% of contractions when it comes to road transport. Then there are other factors that go up, some of them are temporary; others may be more concerned. So, we've managed to turn, in my opinion, the climate sink. We're starting to turn on the right route, which is very important and shows that the measures taken have been successful. With regard to the forest binding of carbon, it has been progressively increased during this ideal period. Of course, this is not the only practical procedure, for we need to take action in much more fields; in energy exchange, food waste, land healing, the recovery of wetlands, and so forth. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u51	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister introduced the importance of taking good care of the matter and preventing infectious diseases. April 20th. produced the ESA in short terms that Iceland does not meet its commitment under the EEA Convention on certain products of the animal kingdom, but according to the EU regulations, it is mandatory to ensure that additional products for animal consumption not intended for human consumption are disposed of by means of measures that prevent potential sources of disease. It seems that the Icelandic government has not made adequate arrangements and that there is not an adequate system. The ESA can now refer the case to the EFTA Court, so it is quite surprising that this bill does not seem to expect to respond to this decision. So I ask the highest. Minister: What is the reason why this has not been corrected? Has the cost of meeting these rules been weighed? I also call attention to the potential cost of Iceland if ESAs appeal to contract breakers. What's your chief plan? Environment Minister will do to cope with this situation? Mr. President. According to chapter 17,1, countries in Iceland have a wide range of signs of ecosystem declines, including the U.S. Because of the influx of tourists. The importance of land healing is also expressed, etc. It is surprising, though, that in this context there is no discussion of other factors, such as using land. Isn't this something a minister thinks needs to be examined too? Then, Mr. President, I welcome the promotion of landkeeping and improved nature protection. I wonder, though, that there is no better way to reach that goal, but there is a great loss of income in the national parks. A reduction in the number of tourists is naturally explained in part, but this means that there will be a recession in services in the national parks. There is also a recession in EEA donations. I'm asking you, how's this foreclosure?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u52	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator very much for the questions. If I start only on climate issues or on what was in place and discuss the restoration of land quality, forestry, wetlands recovery, etc, we have frequently discussed in this hall that this is one of the major elements of the Icelandic government's operating programme, to be able to reduce emissions from land, whether from wetlands or from bad soils or from other ecosystems, as well as to attack on growth and land healing, as well as by deforestation and recovery of wetlands. In recent years, we have seen large amounts of contributions and have increased from what we set out in 2018 in financial programmes of 2019 and 202023 in this area, as in other areas of climate change. Regarding the bait case, it's the part I agree with. A senator needs to review specifically and especially from the definition of sustainable land use as appropriate. A body of Congress agreed in a new law on land healing soon two years ago. They're working on a Regulation that defines this. At the same time, we have been building up knowledge in these matters, just by example. Governd's project, which is supposed to provide us with quite a lot of more information to help us build on that subject. Clearly, I'm all too interested in this, and I need to answer the other questions later. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u53	Mr. President. I hope to the highest. A minister takes the time to answer that question about ESA and possibly EFTA court. But first, I'm going to start with the simplest question: Can the highest. Ministers assure us that this financial program is fully in harmony with the government's plan of action on climate and that the projects there are fully funded? You see, Mr. President, in the plan there are indicators of the share of renewable energy in transport and fishing. The proportion of transport will be 16% in 2020, although the target ratio will reach 40% by 2030 by schedule and only a 3.5% proportion will be reached in the seas and related activities that are not consistent with the climate change strategy. Tells you the highest. Minister of this standard standard? There's a lot of things that Covid has taught us, including Sometimes it takes some sort of motivation to change their behavior. A minister does not believe that there would have been any reason to put more in the plan, such as. an increase in carbon charge? Increased charges on the public in this context could have been avoided by reducing concomitant oil charge on cars. In Norway, however, there were only about 16.5% in Iceland, a fresh registration of clean electric cars in August 52.8%. What's the difference between what Norwegians are doing and what we're doing? Yes, Mr President, higher fuel and diesel imports. Does a minister not think that this might be an opportunity to take on increased incentive to speed up transport energy exchanges? That way we could hit three birds in one strike, speed up energy exchange, reduce gas and diesel cars import and save currency and increase government income. That is, except for the savings that would be paid to switch faster into domestic energy. By the way, who decided that we should be Norwegian boat after boat? In view of the EU's setting of climate targets about 60% reduction in greenhouse gases, shouldn't we set higher targets?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u54	V.E.G. President. If I just come up with the question about nature protection and the Marine Department, there's been a major loss of income in the revenues of the Þingvaval National Park and Lake Earth. So we have tried to arrive this year by making the necessary financial contribution. It is now being examined by these institutions whether it needs to conform more closely to the service that needs to be performed to the number of people who work at any given time. This does not change the fact that we have increased the budget of land protection by more than 2 billion when we count together the entire period of our current financial strategy. It's very important, and I agree with it. Senator. Hv. A senator will also intervene in the activities of the programme and whether this financial plan is fully in harmony with it. We try to keep financial programs in full agreement with climate plans as well as other factors, and all of this is linked. I'm hoping that we can use the extra money we're getting into the climate in the most efficient way, with the emphasis on energy exchange, that's what carbon binding is. When it comes to new registration cars and Norway is ahead of us, I'd really like to catch the Norses, to be told here. On the other hand, they began far ahead of us with their great power, which we are in right now, and we have already achieved amazing results in this ideal period of time. With regard to the directive as of course. A senator mentions them, as far as I know it is on the side of the Department of Employment, but we can talk about it better, even below.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u55	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for this review. I'd like to ask him a little bit about the electricity produced in the country. It is clear that energy security and assessment of it have not established the desired role. Energy security is at the highest level in all nations when it comes to national security. It was a very black report after the eruption of the Hole-In-The-Wave, and the crime scene shows an enormous effect of volcanic eruptions in Lake Bay. Our scientists predict that these terraforms in the lake galaxy can lead to volcanic eruptions. In fact, the forms show a very serious threat to society, communities, and employment, which will have an enormously broad impact. Today, we create 65%, and more than that, all the energy of the citizens of the Þjórður wound zone. This and what a recent report from Samflu will show us about the energy demand in the country over the next few years, including Because of the energy exchange in transport and general growth in employment and in households, we need substantial increases in energy production in the coming years. In view of this and in view of the fact that a minister intends to submit a programme in winter, can he share my concerns with them that it has to be looked beyond the construction of energy workers in the coming years of water, especially in the aquifers? Then, of course, in that wind, it plays, but it's not as perfect as a manufacturing device. It must be looked to with the highest distribution in most parts of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u56	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I would like to begin by saying that in a new energy policy presented by the industrial minister, the energy security of the general public is specifically introduced, and particularly when it comes to this discussion, when it comes to this, that we are made to make sure that the public has adequate access to energy. Regarding the demand for energy over the years, it seems that people do not agree completely with it, depending on who speaks. I'd like to point out the question. A senator for distribution around the country is that there are factors that recommend that the distribution is good for the country, but I want to look at it primarily from environmental and environmental protection criteria and that we use a framework to actually adjust where it is desirable to protect from energy efficiency and where it is permitted to continue to develop energy opportunities for innovation. I think it's a basic part of this. Of course, a substantial amount of energy is already being developed in the current frame of the program. Finally, I'd like to say that I think it's interesting to look at the wind power playing with the hydropower. However, we need to build around the more efficient system when making decisions about how we will use that energy resource.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u57	A respectable president. Of course, the public's energy security is involved in the energy security of companies and employment in the country that creates the valuables on which this community lives. Of course, all environmental considerations need to be taken into account, but I am stressing that the bases or we can tell the basis for the energy output, of course, lie in the water and in the aquifers. That's where the wind's coming in. Not only from energy security but also from supply safety, it is of utmost importance that these are in many parts of the country; of course, it takes a viewpoint to weigh in a conversation with the environmental issues. We have ambitious goals on climate, and in many cases, energy - consuming industry is named as a black spot in this country, especially in the world. Now the world is growing very much, and those using aluminium, to produce the vehicles, the electric cars - I last listened to a talk about it on radio this morning - everyone watches to use an aluminium to a much greater extent, both to lighten and simplify production and also to the recycling of the aluminium that is greater than in other similar materials. I'm going to ask the highest. Minister if he shares my concerns because this basic production is actually disappearing from Europe, with its related consequences for the carbon phase of production and transport of these substances. Is it not reason to protect the production of aluminium, this raw materials, in Iceland and in Europe, to meet the needs of the continent and these markets for this important metal and where it is produced by renewable energy sources, not by brown charcoal, with contaminating in China? [[The president calls.]] Some have said that if this first product leaves Europe and is transported to Asia, it can forget this climate struggle.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u58	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss aluminium production here and where to place it in the world. I might prefer in this context to say that in Iceland less than 80% of the electricity produced here is produced in the production of aluminium and I believe that there is enough in it today. We're not supposed to increase the number of aluminiums in Iceland. It's not the vision I have for Iceland and I may not have to surprise you. Regarding this bigger universal context, aluminium is a very important metal, like a whale. A senator mentions. But where to produce it? That's a good question. It is produced around the world. Is there concern that it moves from Europe to other places? This may be the case in some cases. I'm not going to tell myself exactly about it, but I just want to point out this fact specifically, how much of our energy goes into aluminum production, and many have said that the eggs could be in more baskets when it comes to the electricity production than we do. We need to see how these cases develop.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u59	President. In the government's operation program, the measures that have now been organized for half of the goals we have to achieve by the year 2030. The financial program we have in our hands covers more than half of that time. By permission of the President: Iceland's target is to achieve a 40% reduction in emissions outside of the EU release system (ETS) over a period of 2021◯2030 compared to 2005. A goal for each year has not been set, but the overall objective for the entire period has been established. You will not see the results of a particular period of time, e.g. Half the period this financial strategy covers. This is the problem. In order to reach the overall objective, the government should provide a practical policy on how to achieve the overall goal. That means at least to set up a specific guard who would have to reach the season so that we can determine whether the funding we contribute to this party will produce the results we hope for. My questions to the highest. Environment Ministers are therefore simple: What results are we able to achieve by the funds offered here to bring approval to the sheep? Why are the measures to obtain funds better than other measures about half that are missing in order to achieve their goals?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u60	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the discussion. What is stated in the climate Action Programme and the budget and the budget support is that we will reach the targets we have so far committed to our international commitment to achieve, i.e. in the European Union, achieving 40% contractions in 2030 compared to 1990. As I said earlier, I am convinced that these goals will already go up this year or at the beginning of the next year, both in Europe and in Iceland. What results are being obtained by the funds now inserted? We aim to achieve at least 35% of contractions by the measures taken will be achieved with the current strategy. That's what we believe we can reach in 2030. I'm well aware that it's not broken down every year. I mean, we've taken a huge step in this terms. If we just look at a plan of action that was published in 2018 and compared to the one that came out in 2020, then there are lots of plans. The second is much better, and it shows much more that we are achieving real results here. This prophecy foretells that we will achieve more than our international commitments are expected. However, the project is to try to make a better analysis so that we can better figure out more times on this route to the year 2030, which means that I will accompany the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u61	President. Yes, our goals are not broken down every year. I could quite understand they were every two, three years or something like that, but at least... Perhaps once over a period of financial planning would be minimal. We have a target of 40% at the end of the period, for 2030. That is what is marked in the 2025 box in the schedule, which is very interesting. The government's operation program is full of unpublished measures, perhaps predicting that they will cover the rest or the remaining half. It would be interesting to see that since it is claimed that these measures will be successful, that they will be able to see further developed, or that they are inexplicable in government policies. We're talking about budgets, public funds that we're going to take action to achieve these goals. They need to explain clearly why we are achieving these goals and why this is the budget needed to achieve them. Now he spoke to the highest. Environment Minister on conditions today, Koreans, etc. It is an interesting climate track related to animal culture, antibiotic use, and multi-drug resistant bacteria, and so on. The environment in which we live with a number of animal productions, and with markets, we have a specific growth factor for disease and epidemics that have been experiencing in recent years. Then I wondered if the Minister would give a little more attention to Porta's proposal for carnivore.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u62	V.E.G. President. I was going to establish a series of priorities. A senator mentioned last year's opposition. He rightly speaks of action in the Icelandic government program as taking action that is better equipped than that of others. They are to be successful in the year 2030, which is more than expected of us today according to our international commitments. I want to make it clear. Then there are projections that are being developed and that should enable us to reach 403/46%, which would be considerably more than our international commitments in our partnership with the European Union and Norway. In my opinion, we need to keep our priorities in such a way that we'll attack the energy exchange because it's what matters in the long run, to surround these systems. We're seeing some very positive evidence that this is about to happen right now, faster and faster. Interpolation figures derived from the EEA are simply showing a recession on the roadways. We are now seeing figures appearing on new registration cars that are very enjoyable, much more pure energy cars, and other relevant ecosystems, up to 50% this year. That's what matters. But at the same time, we need to take action that involves eating, carbon binding, and righting of our ecosystems, which have been decomposing in recent years. This is basically the priority which has been clear since the beginning of this terms. Just to get into Pirat's synonym about meat, it's something I haven't sunk in, I have to admit. But I'm very interested in looking at all things like that. A senator knows, and maybe we can talk about it later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u63	A respectable president. I welcome this opportunity to discuss the environment's topic with a discussion of the financial agenda for the years 2021/2025. It is a joy to see that despite pressures in our area today, it is successful to defend that building and planning investment in this area. One of the things I'm particularly happy that we're following now are defenses against nature, pollution. It is the goal for the group to ensure adequate security for the inhabitants of the land on top of floodwaters. Sadly, over the past few years, restrictions on building forces in this area have been reduced, but the rate of development is now being accelerated and the aim is to complete 47 existing surface tasks earlier than expected. So I'd like to ask the highest. A minister will have an updated schedule for the entire period to complete this 47 project and when it will be scheduled to complete it. Then I'd like to turn another investment project into a talker who is supportive of the maintenance process. It is a very important water protection and, therefore, food safety and environmental matters. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, because this is now a spring agreement to take this assignment, to see if the plans of the rural society are taken and how they fit in with the budget as it is submitted.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u64	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the discussion. I agree with her about the importance of being now, and I'm going to let her say, when we finally come to the top of a flood defense, and I'm so excited that we can do more work. As shown in the budget, 28 projects are expected to be completed in 2021; 35 in 2025 and all 47 are to be completed in 2030. We are involved in the implementation of a Regulation that will then take on these objectives, or the new goal, because we are actually speeding it up by 20 to 25 years, which is absolutely important to what the budget was. In this Regulation these goals will appear, we may be making this up a little, so in 2021 there are not as many people, but more and more are coming in as the period draws down. Then asked why. A senator, too, is involved in carotid matters. The Ministry is now working to issue a Regulation on how to apply the strength, the government's help on the reporting issue. But we don't have precise plans for how these things all work out, but they have the funds we've been considering as far as possible right now. So I expect at least this year and the next year, we'll be in a good place with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u65	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister's answers, and I'd like to add a few more questions, first about the nature labs. I see that next year's funding are far more beneficial than last year's funds, and I'm celebrating it. But I would like to ask about monitoring projects specifically, for during this most ideal period, there have been increased emphasis on a number of natural monitoring projects, both due to nature's natural climate change and biodiversity and more. That is why I would like to ask, " How is the experience of the projects that have been carried out by designated government agencies during the natural watch in many parts of the earth? ' There were temporary contracts that, if I remember correctly, expire next year. Is such cooperation intended to continue, perhaps even add, or are there other emphasis on the alarm? Then I'd like to ask about a coastal system. Is this work a full - time effort? Is there a plan to work a coastal zone system for more territories than the east and the West? And I'd like to ask you for instructions on the rural classification of the country, if there's enough money, i.e. such work in a national planning policy. Finally, I'd like to introduce only the challenges of protecting, monitoring and building up the plant and soil resources that enter a very many categories of subjects and at the highest level. Minister has talked here many times. Is there really someone who has the responsibility of folding together as most of the goals in order to ensure success in that area?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u66	V.E.G. President. Yes, I believe that the experience we have of cooperation with the plant is very good. I have put forth earnest effort to promote their activities during these terms. First of all, I'd like to mention the alarm contracts. A senator came into, which is at Bolavourvik and Húsavík, and we are ensuring continued agreements with them after they expire this or next year, will be next year, if I remember correctly. We just put our priorities in order for this one and it's been going well. We are then adding to the monitoring projects in peace - informed areas and especially where tourist pressures are high. It's a project directed by Iceland's Natural Institute of Nature, but the main part of our work is to watch out for the plant. In fact, this began in an experimental phase this summer and is expected to have some conclusions about it later in the fall or winter on how we will continue to conduct it. That is a substantial amount of money, some 100 million will go on all of this during the entire year. I'd also like to mention that, because this is where we have entered the coastal zone, that in the East and in the West it is financed, it will be financed through the Organizational Fund. We need to see if there is more to it than that, if more territory is taken in. It is, in effect, a special consideration. Then, on monitoring the source of resources, we put over the next three years large sums of money in evaluating the emissions from less developed countries and from different nationalities to be able to answer the questions we need to answer on the issues of climate, especially in our cooperation with the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u67	Mr. President. I'd like to start by talking to the highest. Minister on matters that have received considerable coverage in the past hour or so. The government published a recent climate action program and allows her to have a normal financial space, and there are a lot of good things to do. But what's critical is that the plan almost completely eliminates the largest emissions factor, which is land use, i.e. Emissions from the most advanced wetlands and then emissions from a less developed land, a land that is badly treated, including overexcited. There's the big numbers in Iceland's emissions that certainly don't fall under the Paris Convention. But this is of utmost importance to us here if we are going to keep our big words. I'd like to see a minister's ideas on how to handle this, get more important in financial planning for the next year. What system is being considered regarding the restoration of wetlands, and how should this ruined land be protected and cultivated? I'd like to ask a few questions about this climate change programme, but as I say, I miss a financial discussion. True, there are goals, but there are very vague goals, and the solution is not exactly addressed. I'm asking about the highest opinion. Environment Minister why it's going so slowly, the conversation with landowners and farmers about these matters, and then I'm giving myself that there's a conversation going on. What is the future vision of the minister and the highest? Governments in these matters? Does a minister realize that in the years to come, these issues will be taken away from him? [[The president calls.]] Isn't he in agreement with me that this giant show, the country use show in Iceland's emissions, is it important if we're going to have any results?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u68	V.E.G. President. Hv. Senator, thank you for putting in the discussion. I deeply agree that the land use factor is important, although it is not directly supported by the Paris Convention on Emissions. However, it is in the agreement with the European Union that in 2030 we need to have a plus in the hatch, i.e. More like binding than release from the reference year, which will be expected to be 2005◯2007 or something like that. I hope we can deal with that, Icelanders, but it's a huge deal to further research and monitoring these factors that have not been good enough. Therefore, it is a pleasure to relate that there are now about 100 million. K. in strengthening our institutions, our land transplants, the Forest and the Environment Agency, to answer these questions. Then there are 5 billion in this period of the financial program in carbon binding. That's more than we said we were going to do in the first five years of the year, 20191⁄223. But then, natural things are very important too. A senator comes in, says we have a good conversation with landowners, especially farmers. It contains the basic project GroLind, which is measuring and assessing the state of these ecosystems so that we can make decisions together as to what to do with a land that's gone wrong and work on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u69	Thank you very much. Minister. I think we're still at the same hay-horn. We disagree on this. V.E.G. A minister explains that while I insist that the matter has been examined, it is still under way. We're maintaining systems. Governments maintain specific systems, support specific systems that maintain this status. And I ask you, when are we gonna change this? We are likely out of time here to discuss this further because I would like to transfer myself into business affairs and environmental issues. It is one of the largest government topics to create a setting that enables the economy to be a more powerful part of the battle against climate change. I miss seeing how governments are going to react, how they're going to promote green catalyses, ensure that emissions are in accordance with the strictest demands and heads of creating an environment that makes it easier for companies to take environmental measures into the production and supply of goods and services. The best way to reduce pollution is to let those who pollute the cost. I'd like to mention a carbon charge, but in the financial law of an independent sect, the restoration and the future, carbon charges were doubled to over 7 billion. One of the first works of the present government was to reduce these expenditures, and in budget 2021, it is still 1.5 billion to cover what was planned for 2017. These are the sums of money that have lots to say on the other hand, how people and businesses choose, and on the other hand, it is a means of financing into the climate struggle. But I wondered, " Why do governments not use jobs like further sentences of green motivation, securing further cooperation between industry and the government, making it easier for consumers to choose environmental benefits? ' Why do governments let this deadly system go into a financial program?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u70	V.E.G. President. With regard to the cooperation of professional life and the government, and the link between employment and the government, when it comes to climate matters, I agree. A senator that the role of the government is to motivate us for our professional life so that it will be easier to participate in the green revolution that we need and are under attack. That's why there was a difference between the two groups. recently introduced the plan about two weeks ago to attack green investments in connection with the government's response to the collective agreements. It is a project that is now being started, to find out in particular how it can be easier for companies to attack green investments. That's extremely important. I couldn't agree with that. That's what a senator does. There are a number of incentives that this government has not only maintained and inserted but not just to speed up energy exchanges in e.g. However, there are many roads, but they are also trying to change people's attitude so that they will be more likely to use a road trip that does not require a car. For example, we have seen a number of people on the streets of the city in Reykjavík multiply by using electric taxes on electric bikes, bicycles, and electric bikes. I just want to come in like a dog. A senator mentioned earlier the need to maintain systems or to change. I believe that the way ahead is based on the basis we now have for further knowledge based on the GóLind, which is based on better regulations and laws, based on our looking at experimental projects that we've just started, working on climates with farmers, so to the future we look forward to a much more relevant environmental support for farmers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u71	A respectable president. We're here to discuss with the Environment and Resource Minister. Unfortunately, we Icelanders are vastly enthralled environments. It's kind of a disgrace to the extent of environmental degradation we are. To crown everything, we also sell pure energy to those who in many respects are even more environmental eaters than we do to make them witness that they are okay even though they are far from it because they may be burning coal or nuclear power. How incomprehensible it is that we are still in a position to sell our clean energy out of the country by the way we do it! In recent years, I have been thinking about and still wonder: Now California and other places are burning, and no one seems to learn from the experience. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Why is that? What's the situation with a burning chamber? We're talking about a soda belt, we're talking about a belt where the avalanche is. Still, no one seems to think of making a burning chamber. And I just hope to the extreme. The minister of the environment has a plan to make them, to make sure that there is no danger, if there is a fire in it, just in the Valley of Krarra, in a Hallorm forest, or anywhere, that everything goes. Of course, it's ridiculous to think that we can't start a fire in the woods. Timbur's burning as well in Iceland as in abroad. We are also in danger because of time and time that may be very dangerous.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u72	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the discussion. Hv. A senator makes fires and fireproofs a subject of publicity. We see in many other places, such as Australia and California. A senator mentioned, cooks that have been linked to climate change, i.e. to the global warming now taking place. These are global subjects. Hv. A senator asks what we're doing at home, if we already have plans for this. The fire control is basically a partnership between the Department of Social Affairs and the Environment Ministry. A low plain was named, and the one standing here knows pretty well until then. They are trying to make the situation a way out. There is certainly a great food for fire. A great drought has occurred in the past or in the past, causing great anxiety. So, yeah, they're trying to work on these things. At least I know it's done in that area. I'd like to say about this in general that these changes in climate create real problems, and especially when we have few droughts that are longer than we used to. We can also mention that it also plays into local land use, if it is intense, heavy lice, or whatever it is. All factors are relevant, and they need to be taken into account when considering how to handle such factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u73	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Environment Minister for Answers. I can't help but agree with him. I really hope that we have come to the point where we are not just thinking about it but about it. And we're doing it. We are, for example. by gas production upstairs in Gufunesi. And we're burning all the gas, which, of course, is absolutely amazing. We're producing gas, but we only use it to burn it into the air. Therefore, I would like to follow it, as it were, that the tax of sentencing is now to be put on. The financial program says, with the permission of a president: It is assumed that in the fall of 2020, a bill will be put on the watch for public waste, a so - called green tax. The tax is planned to be used for projects that support the economy. Does Ministers believe that it is right to tax the public in order to achieve goals in the topic field? The wage tax is a consumer tax. We know from experience that consumer taxes are the worst in terms of those with the smallest amount of income. Is it not easier to take action against those who are predominantly contaminated instead of taxing the entire community? In this context, I would like to point out that in the Slurpee's review of last year's taxes, it was found to be a 62% increase in prices in the village population. The tents will be no different than with the increase in income records, and both citizens and businesses will have to pay for it. There's a large group out there who just can't afford more taxes, can't even afford to live. And I ask, Is it not time for us to save this group of tax collectors and make sure we tax those who are really spending and who can afford it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u74	V.E.G. President. It is now that sentencing taxes has been dropped since the last conversation between the heads of the government groups with the rural communities. So at least he will not come to the trouble of this council. What I would like to say in general about taxation, which involves the environment, called environmental taxes, is that they are thought of as an incentive to change behavior. I consider them to be very important in this context, and I believe that this is also the case with the current tax. There's a senator coming in. This is also true of other taxes related to trying to change the behavior of people in order to become environmentally environmental and that the entire community will be affected in that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u75	Mr. President. In answer to what. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson said that a minister is convinced that a recession target would be up immediately this year or at the beginning of the next year, referring to both Europe and Iceland as a game. I can bring the minister the good news that this happened yesterday. The European Parliament yesterday agreed to propose to their environmental committee that the EU would aim for a 60% reduction in emissions. So the wagon's on its way, and Iceland needs to stay on top of it because we still have only 40% goals. As we know, that is not enough. The 60% target will return to us as soon as possible through the European community. Today, governments need to take these ambitious steps toward our neighbors on the mainland. I'd like to think about it, because we've been discussing energy exchanges, that they've mainly been pushed by the elements in favor of clean energy vehicles. Now we have a income band in connection with budgets, where fuel - car tax and carbon costs are just indexed. Is this the right thing to do? Do we not need to run these and similar fees in order to make the energy exchange faster and make them less expensive because the income thus derived from contaminated cars can be used to subsidize lesspolluters? [[The president calls.]] The World Cash Fund aims to place every ton of carbon dioxide about $75 in order to be normal. [[The president calls.]] In Iceland, the carbon costs are half that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u76	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the discussion. Hv. A senator introduces energy exchange, as we have been discussing a lot here today, and one of the points he mentions is an index update on charges in connection with a discussion of speed-up energy exchange. We've naturally attempted to raise the carbon bill, as we know about 50% in 2018, if I remember correctly, and then 10% after each of the two years. I just agree with the senator that I think this is one of our important ways to speed up energy exchanges even more. Then we have all these coincidences, and I've talked to more of them. Today's senators are important. Perhaps the most important thing is that we have begun to see the results of what has been triggered, including the natural view that much more people have gone off on the road, such as bicycles, electric bikes, and runners. We see a lot more new registrations on environmental cars that are now about 50%, on these eco-friendly cars, if we completely take clean energy cars outside, the ratio is lower, so we're really getting results there. Of course, I'm fully aware that the European Parliament agreed on 60% of the objective described here by the senator, yet it will accept in the Member States. Let's just hope it happens.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u77	Mr. President. I just want to follow through on the carbon charges. Of course, at the beginning of this terms, they were raised twice in small steps, but are they really supposed to be doing so? After that increase, the carbon pay, according to the World Bank calculations, stands around $40 per ton of CO 2. That would have to be at least $75. This is half what we need to achieve, and there is no trinket in the financial agenda until the next five years about doing something about it. It is not enough to have done something in 2018 and 2018 and to leave it in this business. I'd like to ask the Minister about what I think is one of the best aspects of the government's government contract, which is the promise of the government to provide an assessment of the climate impact of all the larger governments. However, such estimates have not been performed at all, i.e. For both the transfers she came here to the council and the little food here on a financial agenda is hardly a matter of name. I'd like to ask the minister, for I know he wants to know that the information on these matters is clear, that will continue to be discussed, and that will help us to see if there are good measures or not: Why is this proper goal of the Treaty never carried out?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u78	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. A member of the Parliament that a very important objective is set out in a government contract to evaluate the effect of all the largest estimates in the state. In fact, in a new government strategy, it is also said of trying to assess the impact of matters that arise before the council. There's something we're going to start working with the Environment Ministry and it's just very exciting. It needs to start somewhere, like when we started working on a sensory system, and I think it's something that really matters there. I'd like to mention that evaluation of the environmental impacts of the programmes to deal with climate, that all larger government plans go through like a transport plan and a system plan, etc. What we're working on right now at the Ministry is taking the Organization through the regulations to be looked at when environmental assessment is carried out, just to stop it from looking at climate. I'd also like to mention national planning as an organization has been working on for the past two years. I hope to bring her before the council right now in January. It involves just one of three aspects of climate, i.e. in what ways to provide guidelines for the rural population for the main structure, division, and region of climate change. In this way, climate plans are naturally being taken into account. Surely, then, this goal is being accomplished. But we have to do more about this, I agree with that with what. A senator, but they're working on the same thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u79	V.E.G. President. We will discuss financial programmes for the years 2021 servant2025 and the focus on health care. A community structure union is one of the main objectives of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. This is one of the major health - care categories, and by increasing our donations to health throughout the term, we have been able to promote health care, build up, and make radical changes for the benefit of health care. There are many major matters on health care that have already been planned in the government covenant. We've written and approved health policy for Iceland. The construction of land hospitals is in full swing, and health care and mental - health services have been promoted, so to speak. We can be proud of this success, and I'm sure he'd only be caught because left green is now in the government. During the pandemic of Covid-19, it has become increasingly evident how important it is that we have a powerful public health system. This is an important requirement for good public health, and it is that all have access to good health care regardless of their estate or economic situation. Therefore, it is important that we continue to press ahead in health and to promote the public health systems in spite of the harsh economic conditions in our country, and that is what we will do. We'll talk about the budget until 2025. The next year, health - care contributions will increase by over 15 billion dollars. Real value according to the budget, i.e. with the exception of remunerations and remunerations equivalent to less than 6% actual gain from this year's budget. As a percentage of GDP, health expenditures account for 9.2% in 2021, an increase from the previous year with a 9% increase and a significant increase from 2019 when comparable numbers were 8% to 2017 when it was 7.5%. During periods of financial planning, there are a total of 16.1% or 41.1 billion increase in financial contributions. Apart from changes to 12.7 billion, the real increase is 28.4 billion or 11.1%. V.E.G. President. The next year's budget is highly focused on projects that promote the quality of the health system, such as the construction and restoration of health - care facilities. The largest outstanding development is the construction of a land hospital on Ring Road. Next year's budget goes down to less than 12 billion. to build up a land hospital, but during the financial program 60.4 billion are up to date. Next year's budget is estimated to be over 200 million. K. will be devoted to the construction of the new facilities at the Akureyri Hospital, an estimated 6 billion dollars. to the 2025 budget project. About 300 million. K. will be spent in preparation for the rehabilitation department at the Grensás Hospital. The estimated total cost of construction is about 1.6 billion. which is planned for full funding over the next three years. About 600 million. K. will run to the hospital at Selephoss next year, plus 200 million. K. In this year's budgets. Total cost of maintenance and planned improvements, including Building extra altitudes at the hospital, $3.3 billion are. which is planned for full funding over the next four years. Some 200 million will be spent on the construction of new clinics on Southnes. The estimated total cost is 700 million. K. and the completion of the project is expected in 2023. There is a decision to build two new clinics in Akureyri. Next year, there's 50 million. K. is intended for the project in addition to 100 million. K. which was a contribution to the budget of this year because of the design costs. During the period of the programme, an estimated 1.8 billion will be expected. a donation to this project. Patients will continue to be helped to reduce the patient's contribution to health care and to be funded by an increase of 800 million. K. every year in the next year and about the same amount every year during the financial program, a total increase of about 4 billion in its time period. Health - care donations increase by 200 million. K. to increase the number of professions and to promote health care professionals as the first site for patients in the health care system. The production to promote mental - health activities according to a mental - health program will increase by 100 million. K. the next year's budget and each year's budget for the entire programme. Thus, the increase is 500 billion. K. during the period. Temporary donation, total 540 million. Q, is given to promote mental health care in all health care districts of the country at the time of Covid-19.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u80	Madam President. It is clear that most people need to deal with the increased burden of disease due to chronic illness and risk factors for life - style related diseases that require safer and accessible health care. The situation is that there is an increased need for invasive measures, such as joint replacement surgery. The surgeon general has set out a set standard for the duration of an acceptable waiting. The surgeon general says the waiting period should be no longer than 90 days. But the situation is now, and has actually been for a long time, that waiting time has been much longer, making sick people unable to be socially active or to care for their jobs and duties. During the day, the secretary of finance spoke of a bloody waste in the system, and one of the bloodiest wastes must be that of not already agreeing with specialists outside the public system to alleviate the suffering of all those waiting for a better and of a standard of living. Or it may be possible to make better use of other health institutions that have both the design and the equipment needed to improve the quality of life of all those who wait and prepare both anti-inflammatory and analgesics. That's why I want to take advantage of this opportunity here and ask the highest possible question. A minister may not have good reason to go right away to negotiate these selective measures, since we know that this curve will only grow while we do our best to beat others and, less important, course.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u81	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the discussion on this. Here we go. A senator enters a very important matter that has to do with replacement operations. What a joy it is to tell of the establishment of a communication center at the Western Institute of Health, which is estimated to be about 200 million! K. This leads to a change in housing. The objective, of course, is to improve the efficiency of joint replacement operations, and I believe this is going to matter a lot. I am also very happy to see that we are using the National Institute of Health in the West. It is also important that even if the institutions in the country are supported by the Aquilin language - which I know very well, we are raised there - far too far away. Our focus has been on building the public ministry and, as I explained in my talk, has been stressed to make health care the first stop and to reduce the participation of patients at expenses and all of this matter. Of course, Covid-19 has affected this service, as has other members of the health system. It's something we look at. I am really glad that I had to come to a replacement place at Aranesp.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u82	V.E.G. President. Thank you for your clear answer. I'm going to stay somewhere in the same place, but I'm going to give you another deal within the medical system that's going to be over. To illustrate, it's a contract with a physical therapist, and then with a U.S.A. The future view is that Icelandic health care is global and public health work, focusing on health benefits and prevention, that it is part of all services. In particular, people now feel that there has been an increase in the register of physical therapists that has not been added to them. I would especially like to mention this in the case of older citizens who do not always have much to do with their hands and therefore feel this rise. FEW activities are so important, and there has been an increase in the need for their services. Now, the website of those who aim to increase their psychological services for children of alcoholics, to help them cope with the problems of alcohol and drug abuse. I reiterate them: What causes this to be a failure to negotiate with all the members who do not have an active contract with Iceland's Medical Insurance so that things can work best, and especially at the time when we are sadly facing them?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u83	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the good advice. Yeah, we haven't had any contracts with a corpsman, but we're working on a deal with them. Here, too, 150 million were introduced into the subject of FEE, during 2019 C.E. K. An additional permanent, so that by 2021 we have 1,150 billion. K. In the hot tub. This is of utmost importance. We all know the waiting lists that have been there, but they've been looking for a better start. The waiting period will be under the general conditions of the European Community, but specific criteria for waiting for treatment of alcohol and dependence should be set. It's my opinion and important to work on it. Regarding specialists, a service agreement with them is being made on the sale of Kingdom Halls and is being strengthened, as I came into the past, by the SÁBS to a substantial extent by the injection that became permanent from last year on, this 150 million. K.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u84	Mr. President. How good it would be if we could stand here all day to discuss health issues! Sadly, time does not end, but this is a class of subjects that surely need much attention. The public health system is our child. The vast majority of the people want us to secure the system, our hospitals, our health care facilities, that this works properly, and it has been repeatedly seen in both surveys and signing lists that have been collected before elections. Hv. At the beginning of the year, a health - care committee went to make a complete analysis of the health system in order to try to avoid inflation when flowing into problems in individual places, which had repeatedly brought us to our ears and the community all the serious conditions in an emergency hospital in Fos County Hospital. I'd like to talk to someone who's at the highest level. The health minister of the Kraga Hospital situation, which was found in this work to be abject, in fact, like a land hospital. For some reason, it has been so that when these hospitals, as well as other hospitals in the country, do not get enough money to shut them down in their service and send everything to a land hospital. Unfortunately, I do not see the signal in this financial program to the next five years that there is a significant increase in the number of hospitals, hospitals, and Kraga Hospitals, and it is not quite appropriate to talk about growth in this sector when we are building a new hospital. Of course, there are considerable funding for the construction of health care, nursing homes, and new Hospitals.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u85	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator before the discussion and will do my best to answer it in accordance with the circumstances. This question is addressed to the South American Institute of Health and referred to the review. A senator did. The increase today is considerable, from 20141⁄2020, from about 2 billion to over 3 billion, if I read it correctly. We're talking about 2019 as a real increase to Southnes 21.9%, and in budget 2020 there was 40 million. K. The fund to support the Agency through the collapse of WOWair, so this is an effort to consider the population growth in that area. I share it with what? This is a natural region that has grown immensely in recent years and what is being done to make use of the additional resources that have been coming, including of Covid, in there. There's looking, too, that I know why. A senator knows well, to the population, and to the growing population and to the trauma of employment, i.e. what appears in 2020. I think this may be the big score. There are also 200 million approved funds in 2020. K. The budget for investment capitalism on the Southnes, including to improve the access to the Agency's emergency vehicles and to perform other necessary tasks. This is as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u86	Mr. President. I thank a health minister for his answer, and I want him to know that I take into account these complex circumstances. This is a very extensive case requiring great superiority, so it is only natural that you do not have detailed details with a health minister on this matter. I'd like to discuss with him a little about mental health status and give him the idea of an attack in a new mental hospital because the mental ward at Ring Lane is one of the few departments that do not enjoy new hospitals. This is such a future idea that I would like to bring up with a health minister, how he would feel that we would take the next step toward building a good, modern, human - minded mental hospital or mental institution that could handle some of the tasks that are actually difficult to deal with today's housing arrangements.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u87	V.E.G. President. You're right. A senator says, it takes a little overcrowding in this category to be well inside of him, but I've had a few hours now, let's not feel sorry for myself too much. It is a natural policy to provide more service in the nearby community, where health care is very important as the first site I mentioned earlier. Then I feel that there is a great deal of importance to me in all the growth of walking as a public service and mental - health professional. This year's budget shows a total of 540 million. K. and they will return next year. I am very happy to see this emphasis on mental health. It's also adding 100 million. K. Annually, this period will be according to a mental - health program. It seems our mental - health teams are working well in Covid's time, and it's natural that we get to see how this works. In terms of ideas about a new house, as the senator mentioned, there is something I haven't thought too much about, but I always say if there's any good ideas, we should look at them. It's just gonna be interesting to take this discussion. What else can we say? During this season, tremendous emphasis has been placed on promoting the mental - health program in the health - care field, and I am so pleased with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u88	A respectable president. I thank you for the opportunity to discuss here the major and important matter of health care and health care. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister a little on the planning and infrastructure. In these times, it is of utmost importance to think exactly how the organization is reaching out to most people. There are many things to take into account in the medical system, both to make good use of the resources, to use the resources, and to the very best knowledge. It has been worked a lot before Covid. I would like to commend the current health minister, Syggi Svavarsdóttir, for her handling of extracurricular matters or emergency services outside the hospital. The financial agenda of our goals and challenges is clearly seen in the way we have put our arms around this group. All we need is a little bit to finish the job. The government has agreed to perform a two - year - long patient - helicopter study program that will then move specific health care into the field in a very rapid and effective way and life - saving way. I believe this is very important and is part of the infrastructure we are now going into to promote the health system, this will change the organization, while there will be a new programme for the centre of emergency services that is holding on to this class. I think this may be an enormous step in progress, especially in times like ours now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u89	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator is eager to discuss this matter, and he agrees with the importance of strengthening out - of - hospital services. As the senator mentioned, a two - year experiment was made with a special orderly helicopter that would be located in the southwest corner. The amount of money for the project has not yet entered the financial program, but it is important that we continue working to define even more fully the needs and the work of the case so that we too are ready when the situation in society changes again. Granted, the need for travel has been reduced now while the number of tourists is reduced. One main suggestion from the service group. A senator sitting in, if I recall correctly, goes out to establish a special centre for emergency care and physical transportation, which is in charge of the seminary and has the role of harmonizing the national service. This is natural, for example, something to consider and process, such as the other proposals of the staff, that are being carried out in the Ministry, which are aimed at finding them in a health policy programme and in a financial programme to the future. But it should be acknowledged that this situation that is now caused by Covid has sadly delayed these plans. But this is at least something that the Ministry has on the radar.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u90	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A health minister for these answers may want to know that it is by no means late. Environment Ministers also in which this service, out-of-house services, hospitalisations and other measures, will be the most important means for tourists, e.g. Tourists who attend our national parks home and our wonderful nature, so it's urgent. I just wanted to say, before I finished talking about the hospital helicopter, that getting the project started requires considerable preparation. Although the money may not come right next year, I think it will. The budget should consider whether it would be appropriate to show up for the first round of funding so that the preparations can take place and we will be ready when the tourists return. I think it's extremely important. Then I'd like to turn to the second this last minute I have, but it's the nursing home. It is often said that the growth in nurses and their development is one of the biggest challenges in a financial program that I take to heart. But there is something else also in the Treaty of this government that I may be more concerned about, and it is the basis of nurses, how to run them. The local communities and communities that have taken up nursing homes and have this closer service at home as well as those that run nursing homes are a source of great concern. It is not enough to have a nursing home if the basis for operating is not secure, as we stressed in this government contract. I hope we can carry on as much of this service in close service as possible and secure the platform there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u91	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for coming in especially to the nursing room, for it has been a great deal of importance to the health minister to expand that service. Of course, in the long run, we need to look for ways to care for household care more than we do today, to get the focus on it, and perhaps to a lesser degree in the nursing room. These are major challenges. The waiting lists peaked at the end of 2018, depending on clinical practice. But as we know, it is expected that about 650, if I recall this correctly, there will be a new room, part of it is being replaced in older space. When it comes to business, you're absolutely right. There's a senator coming in. Building is not enough. It also has to be sure that homes can be driven here for the future. It's now been guaranteed for 2021. Sadly, however, the years that follow need to be examined, and that is just a project that is being carried out in the Ministry and has a further examination. This may be considered even further when the committee completes its work. But it's one of the major projects that have been done during the season and will respond to the basic needs, hopefully, in the years ahead. It's a big project, and it's moving on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u92	A respectable president. Actually, I just want to ask you one question for the highest. Healthcare Minister, i.e. Whether there are financial resources that a health minister can negotiate with independent psychologists, get them into a health insurance system, just as the council agreed on the initiative in spring construction. Very much. The Minister of Health goes to treat private psychiatrists at this council?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u93	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. The number of psychologists in the medical clinic is now being increased, which I believe is very important. There is also a special emphasis on children. It's important, I know, at the health minister, to be able to negotiate with psychologists. The course is to do it. Sadly, as it is today, I do not trust to answer that question with a yes or no. Wait a minute. A senator about respecting it to me. But I reiterate that the more important mental - health care services and the cooperation with schools are being added significantly to school nurses and psychologists. We have naturally been expanding our public ministry, as it were. A senator knows me, and I briefly went to my opening talk. But it's as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u94	President. I can't see that in a financial program the accumulated needs of the health system are taken into account, regardless of the cost of current social conditions, i.e. the effects of Covid on the lives of those who are sick and close to them and the consequences of the government's actions of Covid. There are traumas, stress, uncertainty as a result of job loss, school dropouts, or limited access to school activities, economic barriers to government decision to pay e.g. The study does not ensure unemployment benefits and thus does not ensure a foundation change in these uncertain times, isolation and addictions, impacts on people's economic and mental health, increased drug consumption, anxiety, uncertainty, consequences such as domestic violence and general violence, suicide and general ill feeling, social divisions that lead to lower feelings of empathy and solidarity, which undermine trust and community involvement, which are the basis of healthy democracy, assault on epidemics, which also interfere with reducing people's ability to consider life - threatening action in climate, a lack of action that still further increases our health problems and ability to simply survive the future. It is not my intention to reduce the rightness of the government or the severity of Covid, but I want to explain only the negative consequences that we can determine from the data and knowledge we have after the last collapse. So I'm asking the highest. Minister: Were the points I listed to consider when the financial needs of the health system for the next year were evaluated? And if not, why not? Why is the cost of saving in one part of the system not holistically taken into consideration? What would it take for the nation's future health not to raise pensions or unemployment benefits temporarily, not to ensure basic progress, and not to ensure economic security and flexibility in these uncertain times? [[The president calls.]] What will be the future bill? [[The president calls.]] These questions are to be answered in the government budget for the next five years because without a complete sample of real cost, we are just moving it between systems, in the form of columns of an excel document. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's not a responsible economy. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. A minister could also answer this from his own case. [[The president calls.]] I know he's here for the health minister and he can hardly answer for it, but what she needs is a more comprehensive view. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u95	V.E.G. President. Hv. Senator, thank you for the participation in the discussion. Hv. A senator brings in much more than just the health issue, and he is well pleased. First of all, I'd like to say that Covid-19 has had an enormous effect and I'm proud of our public health system for having endured that pressure. The government has been strengthening and supporting the public health system primarily by promoting health care as the first stop and by increasing participation in patients' expense, which went down to 700 bucks. Last year he's been dead when it comes to pensioners and microbes. There are things that are important not only to the health system but to society as a whole. We look for ways to equalize between the people of the country, that they can attend basic health care services regardless of their economic status. This year our health costs are high, and through financial aid we assume that there will be an increase in the cost of health care. We're adding contributions to the system about 15 billion bucks. between. If I recall the numbers correctly, I think that over the period of this program, there is a 203/425% increase, but I may not quite remember 100%. The medical, health - care, and mental - health programs are being increased by contributions to the nursing homes. I think they're particularly important in Covid's time, because none of us are at the point of being able to be comfortable in that situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u96	Mr. President. Last spring, the Allied Parliament approved a single bill on the project that Iceland's Medical Insurance will pay for individual psychology services. That bill, in fact, stood out of a large number of council members, with a large group of members of Parliaments on the case, a parapolitical reconciliation. It has long been called for greater access to mental - health services and was clearly a prime factor. This is a major step toward mental health care, which should ensure that spiritual health services are provided on the basis of other health care services. After the bill was approved, a media minister of finance said that the cable had not been opened, even though it had arrived because it was going to accept the financing itself. He said the highest. A health minister would have to answer her plan. I now ask a health minister: Did a health minister succeed in carrying out the will of the council, thus ensuring the necessary funding for this matter, or as a precaution, to contribute funds to the reality of the council's will? Will those who have to make use of this vital medical service be like those who make use of other health - care providers, as did the council just a few months ago? I can't figure it out by reading a financial program, which is very unfortunate, but it's absolutely impossible, except that a health minister can answer that question, off or off.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u97	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the participation in this discussion. First of all, I want to say the highest. Secretary of finance is not the highest. Minister of health, as we know, but I'm not going to get involved in what happened at the time. I think we're there to watch something important, and we agree on that. This is really what I was trying to say here. It's in progress at the Ministry. It's being tried to process it, like other things. If I remember correctly, it was approved this spring, wasn't it? So the time has not been too great, so I'll carry some of my people, especially in modern times. What is to be considered, since this is not being financed in a financial program, is to consider, as the senator pointed out, whether any other team can be taken. When we look forward to the future, when the next plan comes, can we be sure to secure this budget? As is the case today, the emphasis is on furthering the public ministry, as we have been through the discussion. It would be part of Social Security to negotiate this. But this is something that needs to be considered in general: Where can this wealth come from? Is there a way to get new funding in the coming years? I don't think I can answer this any better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u98	Mr. President. Thank you very much. I hope that this matter will be clarified as soon as possible. It is true that it has not been a long time, but we are standing here discussing the government's financial plan for the next few years. I would like to use the time I have left to discuss a waiting list. Our last class was 4,000 people on the waiting list for a selective operation and has increased by 1,000 by the past time. Of course, it is clear that we live under special circumstances and not very good, but it does not change the fact that there is no joke on a waiting list for action such as joint replacement or eyestone surgery, for example. There is a great need. When the situation was discussed in our last spring discussion, the highest would be said. Health Ministers that she intended to respond by talking to the director of all medical institutions and to see where it would be best to go to work on these lists. It hasn't worked out, as the examples show. So I'm interested in knowing if there is any work going on at Medical Insurance to negotiate with independent working doctors to work down the waiting list and what other arrangements are being taken. And, in view of repeated words by a professional health minister, I would like to correct: Self - employed medical professionals are, as if by allowing them to be present at the table, an independent psychiatrist, part of the public health system. [[The president calls.]] We have a public health system in Iceland. That is true of unity. [[The president calls.]] The political question is, Is everything supposed to be government? And if the answer is yes, then the psychologists will not be allowed to do their job, and neither will the list of models go away. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So the question is: Is it possible to negotiate with our doctors to work on these lists?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u99	Still reminds the President of a two-minute deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u100	V.E.G. President. A little more about the Psychological Service and that discussion. Because we are talking about the amount of time that has been given, it must also be very clear which service to buy, in what amount, and so on. I know why. A senator knows that there is something that needs mind very well before it is attacked, and he knows that she understands it. But I point out that psychology services for the public are the foundation, and that's what's being tried to do. In general about the waiting list, a number of measures due to Covid have had to be delayed. This is no ordinary situation in our community, as is true of other communities, so it is the situation. I listed the construction of a replacement site on Aranesp, and I'm working on it right now. [[Privately active...]] The selective procedure was delayed in spring due to Covid, a number of measures, as mentioned above. A central waiting list is being prepared to ensure that it is not double registration and I think it's a step in the right direction. It can also be said in general about contracts with independent operating doctors that they have not been reached. It's worry, of course, I'll agree with it with what. A senator, but contracts are being considered with each expert article considering the needs of the service in each article, etc., which I know. A senator knows very well. I don't think I have it any further. Time's up, and I appreciate it. A senator for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u101	A respectable president. Now we are dealing with health issues, and the situation is sadly serious. It is particularly serious in the affairs of children with mental disorders. An answer from a health minister showed that there are 1,193 children on the waiting list after treatment, including nearly 600 children awaiting a diagnostic and counseling centre of the State. The time these children wait, in effect, BUGL is upset about her dress and her stress. That's where it needs to be handled. You have to put money in the child-adolescents department, you have to make staff environments feel good and that your salary is competitive, even better than anything else, because there's a problem that's going to bite us badly if we don't do anything. That's where we're trying to save a dollar and throw ten dollars away because there we're playing the future. Our children are the future, and we cannot allow them to wait. We're not supposed to, we're not supposed to, and we're not supposed to use Covid-19 as an excuse for extending the waiting list of children. That's no excuse. We have an obligation to do so, and I hope that the minister will agree with me, to resolve the matter immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u102	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the discussion. I'd like to say about waiting lists and waiting times, and in general about the children and youth department of the Land Hospital that, of course, this is one of our most important systems in the community, and we are to protect it. I know that in mid-September, nine children were waiting for admissions to the BUGL, or BUGL, or the children and teenage mental ward. Of course, most of the hospitalisations are emergency treatments, and they occur on the same day, with a total of 80 to 101 percent of all hospitalisations. When the emergency service is under extreme pressure, the natural waiting period for those on a general waiting list is extended and the waiting period can be between a week and several months. However, in view of the fact that all children who are on the waiting list for admission are in the active service of the walking department, and this is important, so that they can be served. Today, the average waiting period for the parade service is about seven and a half months. In this case, we are trying to promote the services of children in the close environment, the health care provider. It's all over the country. Today, we added 540 million to our mental - health routine, the same amount next year, followed by 100 million. K. In addition to that annually, the duration of the programme. So every effort is being made to reduce children's waiting for service, and we will, of course, continue that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u103	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. Yes, in many ways it is true, but in many respects also strangely because I have received the information from the late parents of children who are waiting, whether in a walking ward or elsewhere, that they receive an interview, five minutes, and then no more, perhaps a week or a month thereafter. Then they're being treated. This is no way to behave because these things cannot be done to children. There is no excuse for having the situation as it is today. That, as noted here, applies to joint replacement operations. I'm glad you're setting up a Western replacement center. It's a very good move, and hopefully it will mean that we don't have to send people to Sweden to do replacement surgery three times more expensive than doing it at home. There's an increase from over 400 people to almost 900. It must be scary because I just don't see how it's going to be handled in this situation. That's what it says. We've slept on guard in good food. Since then, I have also been reading about the possibility that health care on Southnes is a safe place. There should be ten clinics, but there are only three people there, where people can't get to a family doctor or usually see a doctor as I was reading. If this is the case, the situation has become serious. It must be minimal for you to get into the underwear and closer to the health care environment when you need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u104	V.E.G. President. A little more on the mental - health issues of children. We must not forget that the increase in the quality of our health - care service is also of utmost importance to shorten the waiting period into a walking ward and into the BUGL. Taking care of children's mental health is a priority at the Ministry. That's a top priority. That's even. did, as I say, by promoting health care: Health care as my first stop, as I have very often stated today. As for the Southnes, the building of a new clinic is being prepared in Smokey Town, and I only came into it earlier, if I remember correctly. As for the Southnes, I would also like to say that if we look at the South American Institute of Health since 2014, it has increased by more than a billion, 1.3 billion, or so. The absolute increase is 22% from 2014◯2020. We are aware that the huge population growth in this area calls for further service there. I'll make sure of what. A member of the Parliament that these matters are being worked out, and they have also taken action, such as promoting nursing arrangements and other activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u105	Mr. President. New creation was a principal focus of the government's covenant. The emphasis on innovation has become even more dramatic after the events of the past few months, as has been made clear in recent government measures, and the Council has adopted and approved by events and even improved. The economic crisis we face is one of the biggest and most dramatic responses to intelligent, creative, and more efficient initiatives. It is one of the most important things that will lay the foundation for the nation's economic and future success. That's our vision, it's our policy, and it's published in a very decisive way in the financial program discussed here. I've said a lot of times, including. in this chair, that the scope of public spending is not a good sign on politicians, as is often the case. At times, however, the situation may need to be a significant step on the scale of money and expenses, and these conditions are only now. Therefore, I think it is good and important to learn that this financial plan includes a marvelously improved budget for innovation and research, possibly the greatest increase that we have seen. Newborn contributions and research thus increase by 10 billion dollars. Next year, from about 16 billion to 26, or more than 60%. A total of some 40 billion dollars are being added. in the five-year financial programme, compared to large donations for the current year's budget. Much of the part flows to research and development projects from companies through the recycling system. Much of it flows to the pioneers through competitive funds and large objects, or about 7.5 billion, flow to Crime, the catalyst of dierent investors, which strengthen innovation in our environment, where it is the most vulnerable, when it comes to financing potential at a delicate but important level in the life of sceptre companies. This remarkable support for innovation and research is one of the biggest reports in this financial program. It was very consistent with the innovation policy I introduced earlier in the season, and we had started working afterwards before Covid gave us a reason to get even closer to the ground and take bigger steps and faster. The increase in expenses is, in part, a temporary arrangement to counteract the impact of the epidemic and is therefore expected to reverse partly at the end of the period. As I mentioned above, there are special circumstances that call for these actions, but in general, it is not my primary goal to increase government spending as much as possible and for the longest future. Mr. President. It is a company in travel services that is known to be faced with a major crisis and serious crisis that the government has met by both general and specific measures. However, because of their expenditures, there are largely others in this budget than in the matter itself. However, there is an increase of less than 600 million per year due to temporary action projects, particularly the structure of model destinations for tourism, one of the main priorities of Vegis in tourism, the building of permanent room for destinations at the ringway, and a greater contribution to tourism. This project is part of the government's investment campaign to reduce the economic decline in the following epidemic. For Covid, we had a future vision and guided by the tourism services, where sustainable interest and interest play a key role rather than the number of tourists, as well as the development of balance measures for the article. These tools will be of benefit in the reassignment of the article, and it is good to see that the direction and direction of the article to the year 2030 are solidly based, and we have an opportunity to build on it when circumstances permit. We have full faith that the tourism service will respond vigorously when circumstances permit. In order to support that approach, we have already placed considerable funds on an international market project that is already started but still owns a considerable amount of money, most of the funds. We continue to build infrastructure, as well as the vast amount of resources for the professional life that I was only able to establish here. In energy, we have recently introduced long-term energy policy to Iceland, which was used in transnational cooperation. A number of projects in the spirit of policy are already well worked out, aims, and priorities in financial pursuits. As an example, I am able to contribute large numbers of donations to equal the distribution costs of electricity across the country, to force on land cables, and to make it possible for us to complete certain targets there in five years instead of 15 years, and to reduce the number of electrical disturbances in the distribution system by 85%. Of course, energy exchange continues to be highly emphasised. Mr. President. This is in very short terms the lines that are broad in regard to the classes of perfunctory language that I hear. But, of course, I rejoice to have an opportunity to have a conversation with the members of the council on a specific point below.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u106	Mr. President. I thank you for the opportunity to have a place to speak at the highest level. Travel, industrial and innovation ministers. I'm gonna start by talking about innovation. Before the viral epidemic hit this door, you introduced the highest level. Minister of Ministers plans to bring down the New Creation Center of Iceland. It was the end of February, before the epidemic came here. The bill of this material has not yet appeared at the council, but these plans will still be in progress. So I ask if such dramatic changes are to be carried out in these times when governments, and in fact, more, think and emphasize that innovation plays a vital role in asking us up from the bottom of the down cycle we are looking at. There seems to be no clear reason why the Agency should be laid down or how to serve the objectives of innovation by this procedure. What happens to employees, their jobs? There is talk of renting a much more expensive home in the depths of the lake than is the present home on the edge of the city. How does it benefit from innovation? It is even said that part of the Management Department's projects should enter the Ministry. I'm asking a minister, what new development is being done at the Ministry, the Ministry of Neonization? What exactly is the work to be done at the Ministry? The plans of a minister may appear unprovoked, but have already created a lot of uncertainty about the Agency's projects, may result in an increase in costs and present employees over 80 are completely uncertain about their profits and employment. Then workers have reported very limited consultations with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u107	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. That is correct, the bill has not entered the council, but it has established a lengthy announcement by the government, which also follows the question and answer, including the answer. The answer to that question: What is the objective of the law? What's going to happen to a New Creation Center? What will happen to the holding of the Management Board in companies? What Is New Creation Gardens? What will be the expansion of the new world? What will happen to support pioneers? What will happen to the construction industry research and testing? Where does chemical analysis take place? Where are the activities of Europe's centres and what happens to the Rb papers? It's true that this kind of project comes with uncertainty. It is one of the flaws of such an assignment. Of course, we have the bill to set priorities for the innovation environment, the environment that has changed in recent years, and the bill takes into account. Of course, a new creation center has played an important role. Hence, some projects there will continue, and a new location can be found. We're very far along with the whole organization, as you can see on the bill. We announced this as a plan in February so that we can have a conversation and consult with all concerned partners. I've had meetings with employees. We've had quite a good deal of care for this aspect of the matter, and the workers have received information along the project. Of course, there are still some who are not sure. Some will move on with assignments. Some are simply finishing their years of work. Some people are unsure. It's part of having a clear vision for major groups of people who also have the courage to make decisions that are controversial and uncertain, some inconveniences follow. I've thought of it as my job to take decisive action and make major decisions in terms of innovation policy for Iceland, which is exactly what it is. The foundation of this. New creations are in my mind a great step of progress that has been discussed for a very long time, to link more fully the working world with the university community in order to put a better grip on the wand and to make sure that there is even more fermentation and good things will happen. [[The president calls.]] I look forward to bringing this into the council and having a closer conversation with a senator about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u108	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. V.E.G. A minister would answer exactly what is now in the hands of Iceland's New Creation Centre and should work at the Ministry. What work is being done at the Ministry? Who's going to move there? In terms of uncertainty, it is particularly large because of this virus epidemic. V.E.G. While a minister enjoys making bold decisions, he certainly needs to be well - thought - out. It doesn't mean anything to get into some uncertainty and put 80 employees in absolute uncertainty. That does not mean that it is fun to change and to do something new. I reiterate these two questions, whether this is the right time and what to do at the Ministry. I'm also going to come up with another matter that's on the field of travel, and that's about guides. I believe that now, when the tourism industry is in the middle of nowhere, it should be the time to prepare the tourism for hopefully the swing that will be back with us in tourism, use this pause to prepare it. Travelers wait for an important project and a great deal of work to be done. We have many well - educated, experienced guides. In many lands it is customary for national guides to be required, but such is not the case here. Is a minister prepared to prepare in consultation with the Fégagion guides'demand for Icelandic guides, making requirements for them? Is a minister willing to protect the job names of guide guides by working on and conforming to the requirements for their education? I'd like to point out that there are areas and seasons that require professionals to guide them. [[The president calls.]] We have seen that this has failed in the case of inexperienced men. [[The president calls.]] This is about the security of tourists and the experience of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u109	Mr. President. First, to answer the second question, it is already in preparation. The work is being done to sit down with guides and find ways to determine the requirements for different travel. I'm not going to increase the number of job protection terms, but it's clear that trips are very different and normal to make different demands on them. That work is already being done, so the answer to that question is yes. Of course, with regard to the other question about the Creation Centre, I am not reaching out for anything, nor am I impressed when employees experience uncertainty. However, it is quite wrong that there are 80 employees who now experience uncertainty. They are considerably fewer, and the project is simply larger than that, so that it can stand and fall with the uncertainty. We're supporting the whole country with innovation, and it's very important to the country. The capital area has been particularly modified, but there is still a bigger challenge on the land. As for the Ministry's expansion, we today have one and a half places in innovation. New creation is a huge issue that will take over all sides of the government and society. It is simply time for the Ministry of Neonography to be stronger than having one and a half places to do all the tasks that really exist between all resources, giant projects; communication with the European countries, contact with various funds, other institutions, companies, etc. Part of continued activity and the work that will continue to take place will also be out in the country. The exact procedure, whether it will be the Ministry's employees or just some special job without a location or project office in the country, is being examined. But the big project is even. The importance of supporting innovation in a country in my mind is an extremely important project.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u110	Mr. President. There are some interesting things in these fine financial laws and, like the highest. Minister tore here, something positive. Sadly, though, so often there are many pages. I'd like to start by talking to the highest. Minister on what she ended her last answer on, i.e. about innovation and innovation in the country. I'm sorry, but I don't see in this strategy how Ministers are going to promote and support innovation in the country. It is considered to promote innovation at national level by providing specific donations for projects in the country. But what is it? Are we talking about another fund? What are we talking about? How are you planning to go to the top? Ministers guarantee access to employment and innovation counseling? Indeed, it is a joy to see that many innovations are still being added, and it is extremely important, Mr. President. But one of the things we've discussed before is the location of the region when it comes to the sponsorship of Ranni's funds. There, a great deal of work rests on outside the capital area. One theory is that they lack better support for pioneers there. How's the top? Minister to correct that? One of the highest. A minister has introduced in connection with the closing of the New Creation Centres is setting up a Ministry Department in Akureyri. I'm asking, is that still the case? There is no sign of the financial agenda. And finally, Telev. Minister may have reason to reconsider Iceland's innovation policy in the light of changed circumstances? Don't we need even more than ever to have a powerful musculo-skeletal system in Iceland? In this context, Mr. President, I would like to mention the interesting situation that almost nothing is discussed with the tourism services due to Covid-19 and, in fact, contributions to a travel agency are cut down, although there are certainly an increase in funds in the travel fund and other things, which are well-deserved. How disappointing it must be, though, that there is no greater support for supporting the support of tourism in this program!
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u111	Mr. President. Thank you. The question - and - answer section of the Council is when the Technical Development Fund is specifically referred to and distributed into the country. In fact, it's unacceptable how low a ratio goes there, and it's even low. because there are not enough applications left over there. This is not to say that the results of their applications are far less effective than others. We simply need to ask ourselves: " Why is that? And the answer we have found is that more soil and support are lacking, justified in some of its public aspects, in order to increase the likelihood that more applications will provide them. It is true that we are thinking about and working at setting up a work fund. It's called for, and I've been wanting to see those forces break out of nowhere, which are certainly out all over the country. We've got parish plans, they're strong, they're on the other side of the region, and I'd like to connect this fund of national parish plans. As a result, the National Association is also our communicator. The blackness has taken over when we've told about these plans. There's a lot of interest. It produces all kinds of ideas, whether on the side of a country or in a community that may even be involved. is about increasing support in job development and innovation. Of course, there is a difference between economic development and innovation. In the country, there is often considerable employment development as well. It's important that this is done, and I hope we succeed in taking hold of all the strong ideas that are about to come into existence in the country. Therefore, it is important to have this fund, not a total medium control of how to divide the funds. It says there is an even greater need for support and whether a new creation policy needs to be revised. I haven't seen any reason to do that, but everything we do is a lot in connection with the Neo-creation policy. We are, of course, putting more money into it, in line with this financial plan, likely more than we have ever seen. That is in harmony with the government's focus, in accordance with Generalism, in accordance with the emphasis of the Neo-creation policy and the answer to the crisis we are in and how we are going to recover from it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u112	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. V.E.G. A minister would clearly agree that further support for innovation is needed in the country. It is difficult to see how to do so simply with some fund. I think much more support is needed in the form of counselors and people. In the second, I wanted to talk to the highest. Minister on the energy issues. How happy we are that we are taking steps toward the equivalent cost to the distribution of electricity in the region! But I am absolutely forbidden to understand why it wasn't done all the way and to decide to match this distinction as stated in the Constitution. It is, in fact, a measure of ambition, and I would have thought, in view of the small lack, that it would have been wise to complete it. So I ask the highest. Minister: Why was it determined not to do so? Then I'm worried this way was chosen, i.e. to raise the equation, government funds, instead of going through the way submitted to a service team report on electrical transport to rural areas, i.e. to record one currency for the whole country, as was the case with the telephone at the time. We live together in this vast country, and it's not like people sitting at the same table when it comes to farms and employment. So I ask, Why wasn't that way chosen? Has the highest. Ministers don't worry that the course decided to take will have a negative impact on smaller users, i.e. buyers to e.g. Five-to-one MW that needs to buy the electricity from the diffusers? This must have a significant negative impact on their competitiveness and potential for growth when calculating the equation. How's the top? Minister to correct the problem? Then finally, Mr. President, I'd like to ask the highest question. Ministers, however, whether they consider the standards set for the share of renewable energy in transport and the share of renewable energy in the marine future to be sufficiently ambitious?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u113	Mr. President. These are a lot of questions, but I'm doing my best to answer them. First of all, why wasn't the way of uniting into one currency: I was attracted to that idea for the first time. We did some research on her. The conclusion, however, is that the transparency to consumers decreases and the incentive for convenience to be reduced. There would be transfers from joint funds controlled by the Power Institute requiring increased monitoring of the costs of host and heavier management. Hence, it was really in accordance with the view that such doubts were about the decision to follow a different course. So this route was clearly examined. It's true that we're going to the 85% equation and then we're going up in the next few years. Of course, reaching the full equation would have been brilliant, but there is an overwhelming amount of money in a financial program, money that really does not exist but is also a means of economic control. This is a very reasonable matter, so I am very happy that the 50% equation has been removed to 85%, which is then growing. I'd be very happy if the council found ways to go to 100%. But, of course, this is an overwhelming change for the entire country, and, as I have often mentioned, one of the biggest problems in the power system is that this is the situation and in fact, it wasn't done with the phone at its time, that it would just be the end of the system's power, and if we talk about freedom to move into the home, it's a real matter of freedom to live. Regarding the travel that I did not get into earlier, the resources that have, of course, appeared in other locations than here and these measures are of utmost importance to tourism. I mentioned that we have this policy frame. He can resist a Covid crisis. We're adding to certain structures of wood, both in national programme, in production funds, and in model meeting places. We'll have a conversation with a tourist agency about further projects she's had to do now. [[The president calls.]] Again, the project is much more focused on meeting the job and helping them get through this than on exactly how many dollars go to the network of tourism. Of course, we are also trying to make good use of our time, both on smaller projects and on such projects. to develop market agencies to destination rooms.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u114	Mr. President. Iceland's innovation centre has already been located here, and I'm not going to reenact the aspect of her innovation. The Agency has existed since 2007, and much changes have been made in the past. Now that business will be changed and reduced, I have full confidence in the fact that the new creations will be well established throughout the country. However, I would like to discuss certain aspects of the creation centers, i.e. the section involved in construction research and manpower and publishing in so-called Rub newspapers. The work that has been done all along has been about the most important studies in building molds and concrete development, which have resulted in remarkable things, including the results. concrete, which is the most environmentally friendly thing in the world called Eco-Crete. Yes, one ton of greenhouse gases is released for each ton of concrete that is produced and placed in place. So these are very important tests. There's an investigation on the asphalt. What I'm concerned with is that this type of research and method of measurement need to be independent, not dependent on popular social competition. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on how this is going to happen. If this goes to the House and Manor Institute, University, it's allowed to continue working there for its research, i.e. These activities, etc.? It is vital that construction research be done well in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u115	Mr. President. These suggestions, in effect, indicate that there will be an increase in the amount of donations available for construction research now. In cooperation with our Ministry of Social Affairs, we plan to set up a competitive fund for construction and humanitarian research. The sea will be funded together by means of emergency treatment. In particular, the focus of the fund will face social challenges in the construction industry, such as barber damage to human activities and measures to lower carbon levels, as shown. A senator crossed. The fund will be handled by the Technical Development Fund and a special professional recommendation ordered to review applications in order to ensure the professional assessment of the individual person of the applications being received. The establishment of such a fund seeks to open up the official support environment for more people from the university and employment worlds and to promote increased cooperation with foreign investigators. There's a lot going on in this area, and there's going to be a darker border in this. We realize that with these changes, it is important to ensure that part of the research currently being carried out, as the senator made it, is important to have an important social value. We are in agreement with the presidents of the New Creation Centres to identify the exact task that is important to continue through the period of change, and we are ready to intervene if needed. The Rub magazines for technological development and the challenges of the construction industry will continue to be published. A new creation center has provided educational and data collection for the construction of workers through the publication of this magazine, which publishes information on the topic on the construction industry and discusses the results of the research studies in the field. This work, together with its employees, will be moved to the House and Managing Agency. There is also an opportunity for increased synergy with the current activity. Thus, both the more intensive collection of data and the more intensive exchange of information in the field is achieved. It can also be noted that the construction site, which is the consultation of a construction and construction strategist, has been commissioned to shape a long - term program for research and development in the construction industry. They aim to submit their proposals for a year ago, in cooperation with the job and management, that the construction project will be carried out in a practical environment in the near future, in line with international quality requirements in the construction industry. [[The president calls.]] Professionals need to meet various working conditions and quality requirements, such as being independent of party at market, and this trend is consistent with what is happening in other areas of employment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u116	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. Yeah, I know about the competitive funds. To me, the question is that there's something there, like, both ◯ and then, but not either. I hear it at the highest. Minister, we're working on this. I'm happy, and I hope that what I call an independent aspect of construction research will remain. I'd like to cover the other stage at the New Creation Center, i.e. The subject, bio- and energy field where there's 17 people working. This is a diagnostic procedure. There are many developments and innovations. It is one of the few electron microns in the country. This, too, is part of what I want to see as independent activity. It examines biomass, the use of raw materials, industrialized, practical chemical and microtechnology. The medical and supportive technologies, the use of organic resources and the use of dead natural resources are being investigated. It's like that. They were developing a basalt, a highly valuable substance that is useful in special products. The search for gold in Iceland has to do with this operation. Just as I asked earlier, I would like to get answers from the top. Minister on how this operation will be affected? Of course, engineering agencies can do some of this and the colleges can do something about it. But it's very important to be independent of the factor, i.e. what is based on measurement or monitoring, the context of progress, is stored in some place that is either a university or an institution. I'd love to hear it from the highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u117	Mr. President. Chemical, bio- and energy technology field has been a facility for pioneers and wands in high-tech and various international cooperation projects supported, e.g. The European Union's Framework Programme has a place of the so-called ELO access to equipment. This work will continue in changing management practices, where cooperation with national university society will be further emphasised. The concept is to establish the Society's Organic Parks on the operation of a technical and research site that receives part of the EOR's activities and commitments as well as some of the research and development activities of the Laboratory of the construction industry. The Society will be fully unfashionable as part of a private share owned by the State, where the State will contribute a part of the production system of the New World Translation Centre. This is to make sure that the Society can apply for this fund, which is, of course, a key element. The company will represent the university and the Ministry, and it will emphasize that the Society can serve both its own pioneers and the research of all universities in the country. The Ministry will place an annual contribution through a service contract. There will be a basis for financing of research projects currently in Iceland, including projects supported by EU research funds, to move to Newborn Gardens, and special emphasis on the fact that the European Union will continue to be able to apply for the EU fund. The Society will be at first located in the current residence of the National Institutes of Creation in Köldnaholti, the aim is to transport the work in Watermelon within two years to ensure a better cohesion and cooperation with the university community. These plans are in line with the plans of the biggest universities and the city of Reykjavík for building a village of knowledge in the Waterstain. I have stressed that this facility is going to be open to students everywhere that of the country, from other universities, and that the community community of colleges can put it in a board to make sure that everyone has a voice at the table, not just those two schools, the University of Reykjavík and the University of Iceland, which are located there. But it's logical to have it there. The exact way it draws up is still being observed. We know that both schools are interested in this, so we simply need to find a clear and effective way to ensure that the project grows and thrives after two years in the Feltnahol. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u118	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. A professional minister on unemployment benefits, whether it is considered discouraging for the labour market to raise basic employment benefits, whether they agree with the highest level. Secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson's son, that raising them will be discouraging for those who accept unemployment benefits. I'd like to ask you the highest. Neoplasmary Minister if she believes that it is for the benefit of having as much limitations as the lack of unemployment as it really is, i.e. that new projects, new things, or new things, are practically impossible for the sake of fear of losing it. There are two questions to the highest level. Minister. Does it feel that it is discouraging for jobseekers to get slightly higher unemployment rates than the current ignominious benefits? That's where I'm talking about striped unemployment improvements, basic unemployment benefits, not extensions in the income period. I also ask if she believes that it will benefit innovation, or possibly it will not, to have as much and as much unemployment as it really does.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u119	Mr. President. First of all, whether I believe that higher basic employment benefits are discouraging: Of course, it is not a joke of unemployment. There is no one who has it kindly and in good repairs for basic goods. There's no setting that's encouraging to be in, I'd say it's more the other way around. I agree, however, with the priorities mentioned by the minister of finance, that increasing the number of jobs was a matter of great importance, of gaining prior power at the time of work. It is the private sector that enables us to live up to all the welfare systems we support, and the unemployment reform system is inside that circle. For people who have enough resources to do otherwise and who use unemployment, there are certainly some resources within the system, whether they are educational resources or financial resources, in cooperation with the Creation Center, i.e. that short-term unemployment workers can enter an enterprise, especially in a innovation firm. All of this matters. If there were no such conditions and everyone were free to do anything, I suppose these rules are for keeping the system in place - then it would only be simpler to have a civilian salary that I know Pirantar favors. If so, we would not need to be discussing our systems. But the private sector is what needs to grow, and I'd say it would be a top priority to get it up to earn the benefits we have. [[The president calls.]] We're seeing the money paid for unemployment benefits that we've never seen before. We must get out of that situation because we cannot live up to it for a longer time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u120	President. I'd like to ask a minister how she thinks public policy works, how she thinks it should work. The laws on public finances, which we discuss here in terms of financial planning, state very clearly what minimum requirements are for prioritized to-do-lists, on the costs and benefits analysis of projects, and on the option basis of analysis. Recent examples of government policy in innovation make me doubt that a minister is fulfilling his role appropriately. Given the financial and public financial legislation, I allow myself to doubt that any Minister is doing his part in official policy properly, but the example of Iceland's New Creation Center is just so obvious in this context. In February it. The Minister has informed me that we should shut down the New Creation Center of Iceland. Since then, questions have been addressed to the minister and the Ministry involved on what basis the minister made that decision. The answers have been rather vague. For example, if it was true, management costs and more money might be paid directly on a new creation project, and it would be great. Therefore, the evidence of the minister's case in support of the matter was further asked. So far, the data have not been received. It appears, then, that the minister first decided to put down Iceland's New Creation Center and then try to find justification and evidence of it. This is exactly the same as during the last term when the then education minister, as well as the minister's platoon, intended to unite the High School of the Day and Technologies because it was so convenient. Upon closer examination, they did not pass the claims of a minister. Sports fear when prosecuting ministers of the Independence Party make such decisions, so I ask a minister: Do you think it is a good policy to make a decision first and then find reasons for that decision?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u121	Mr. President. On request for specific information, I know that this is a matter of the process and that information will be made available to the employment committee. Regarding this, on what grounds and data and work we build these plans, it is true, as it were. One senator says that I have emphasized that support into the innovation environment is being further developed to the projects itself. That's what we're doing. We are putting money on the projects ourselves, putting money on construction research, establishing innovation parks, promoting innovations in the country, putting money in the project fund. Instead of simply increasing the number of government employees around the country, we prefer to do things this way, so that we can make more sure that the funds are on the projects. This will help us to eliminate further energy. We are together with this decision to turn 350 million into the state fund of the 700 who have gone to the agency. I think it's a good step and it's time. I wanted us to see more often that when we find new projects, new resources, fight for new resources, and put lots of money on all new projects in innovation, we can also look at what we already have and carefully review them. I decided to do it this way, first to introduce it as a plan, and then I would talk and talk, and the projects would take a picture in time, instead of having it in closed groups and presenting it all with a popus and a light of notice. This makes it possible to answer all the questions as soon as this plan was presented in February. But that's certainly how we build it on our work, our policy, our conversations from within the system, etc., apart from the emphasis and policy of others in the community that support this trend. It is only natural for such decisions to be revised when the environment is at its rate.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u122	A respectable president. I welcome the opportunity to discuss financial programs at the highest level. Tourism, industrial and innovation, as well as the topic fields responsible for which the minister is responsible, are sufficiently involved. I would like to start by discussing what is commonly called the e - mail costs for electricity, but I want to say that there is one of the largest job developments in Iceland. It would be the most effective support for the rural travel services if the full equation of electricity could be reached. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers only into the vision, when it is aimed at the full range of costs, although it has entered in reply earlier, why was there not one currency for distribution. I'd like to ask for the highest. Minister will go back over this because I don't think there'll be a equal opportunity for commercial development all over the country unless there's one currency for the distribution of electricity. But I welcome the steps they are taking now. Then I wanted to talk only about the geostringing system and the recovery of electricity and its energy security. I want the minister to go over the plan ahead. How long will it be estimated that we will be back in 2025 on a ground-separation and electrical recovery?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u123	Mr. President. For one common currency, it was carefully checked. I began to believe that it was the simplest way because it is understandable that there is one common currency in the distribution of electricity, as in so many other things. But this was carefully examined, and the result was that there was a reduction in the transparency of consumers and a reduction in resource costs. The spread of the diffusers to unbehave, could increase without me saying it's clean. There would have to be a system of transfers from a joint fund controlled by Power Institute which requires additional monitoring on the cost of hosts and heavier management. With all of this in mind, the conclusion was that we should look for other ways. However, during the next four to five years, we reach a peak in the need for investment in the distribution system, and the need for an equation price should be reduced again. Of course, we always have this equation payment in the law, which today accounts for some 980 million. In time, we may be able to either reduce it or what is taken directly from the financial system. We're taking a huge step now, and if we raise an equation fee with respect to price prices, we're at 85% of the equation right now. In the years that followed, this amount goes up slightly. So I can't exactly tell you when we'd get the full equation. But we are as good as achieving it after this big step as it will be in years to come. In terms of electrical recovery, we are about to have major projects right now. And with this approach, making haste, we are, in effect, able to go to a ground-stranding system in five years instead of 15. So we plan to achieve it at a time that is a big step, since it is not long since men could not see to it that they could do it in just 15 years and not five years. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u124	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers of the answers and are delighted to be able to speed up the triphobic and geological development of electricity distribution, but they make it very important to me that it is the same cost or the same cost across the country. Then I'd like to go to a little bit of tourism and aeroplane development fund. I just want to ask you, what happened to the flying fund? Is there anything in the system now that supports the development of flights into new ports, whether by passenger or by freight transport, when flight becomes complete again, whenever that happens? Then I just wanted to change my gear and go to another. Last year we discussed a community bill. It was dismissed from the council, returned to the government, and I would like to use this opportunity and ask: What happened to that? I don't see it hastily on the Constitution. Perhaps it is under some new name there. Then there's the innovation. I think there's a lot of good doing there. They're adding funding to the innovation and competitive funds and other funds. But I'm still a little worried about what we've called professional development, whether there's enough incentive for investments in the industry and more valuables, more currency creations, under the conditions we're living in. Does the minister see any ways to improve it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u125	Mr. President. First to respond to the public good news bill, it was for treatment at the council, and it was not over. There were some viewpoints that we were considering and working on, so it could not fit into the autumn Constitution. It can be revised in Christmas, so if we have finished with what came up there, I suppose I'll put the bill on Christmas. But I'd like to be prepared to think that we'd be doing something that needs to be shaken because I already have, if I remember correctly, twice as measured for the bill. In terms of flying development fund, it can be said to have a way of life too good, i.e. He's just too well affected because, unfortunately, he's not being picked up. Actually, it would be a luxury problem if we were to rely on a half - amount of air - development fund. But the situation is that he's still there. It's got money in it. The rules are somewhat ambiguous and clear, but unfortunately, little is happening. However, we have a new time, and we have reviewed only the fund's policies, websites, and location, more linking it with Istavia so that it is clear and in one place. So we are trying to do what we can while time is as it is. I've always been good at it when there are ideas on how to change the regulations of the fund or the regulations so that those ports can be further supported. If new ideas about it come up, I'll look at them with an open mind. Regarding the development of employment, I have found that many changes have been beneficial. It may be described as a luxury problem, i.e. whether the supporting system is going to run as fast as it needs because there is so much going on in spite of a difficult situation. [[The president calls.]] I have felt that the trend over the country was further improved and that the diversity has been increasing. Whether this needs to be taken into consideration by the supportive environment, there is something we must always be willing to re-evaluate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u126	A respectable president. Only a discussion has been made about the New Creation Center here and a minister's decision to lay it down and bring the projects elsewhere. I'm not going to say yes to the Minister's plans. I believe it is reasonable that we will consider the next steps of this second great old - foundation organization, which may have been not always linked to innovation but also to other important factors, construction research, etc. However, I would like to encourage a minister to provide and share information on the process. Information is slightly vague, but I would like to declare it, at least on my behalf, that this step is right, and that it will be done in more cooperation and cooperation with other institutions and other malls, universities and businesses. I'm not going to speak against these changes. Rather, I'm going to encourage Ministers to do more information and to promote conversation in that important field. While contributions to innovation have been increased, we can still see that the extraction rate is down. There's a lot of motivation in research and technology development fund. I'm asking a minister if she intends to promote further developments in the research and innovation funds so that we will not lose the ideas being proposed. I would also like to ask if in addition to increasing the motivation of the innovation process, I would like to have some academic and professional people working for a job search, working with the Labour Office and the job life, looking into the innovation companies. If there are some companies in Iceland who have to be able to recruit people to build the foundation, it's the newest companies. I think they'll come out much stronger out of this code and this crisis if we put our arms around them and give them room, support, and strength just to hire the people who are now out of work and not least academics.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u127	Mr. President. I'm glad that I have the opportunity to answer a different question. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson when he asked me about the evidence. On account of the question, I began to doubt that the data had returned to the job committee, the information they wanted. But it's been ten days since we returned them to the employment committee, information on the history of the case, and information based on the decision to put the Agency down and find a way to work. With regard to technology and this competitive fund, it is true that it is, in fact, amazing how powerful people are, and the imagination indefinitely and indefinitely. We put more and more money in the fund, but the ratio has continued to go down, especially this extra share now at the last place it went down to 8%, but has been considerably over it recently. But we're adding. In fact, there is a 50% increase in technology now, which is, of course, an excessive amount of money. Technology fund is an incredibly important tool in the innovation environment. But I always want to mention it, because it's important to me, and I'm afraid if I don't, nobody will, that public support for innovation is important, but innovation and a strong environment doesn't stand and falls by it. When we're talking about further support, as we've been doing now, whether it's in reimbursement to research and development, this competitive fund, support out of land, institutions, and all that we're doing, I'm afraid of a little bit of that tendency in the discussion, and I'm not doing that in word. The senator, that the state power should come too much into that environment. We need to be careful of that tendency in general during the discussion. This environment is about developing this relationship, and having a very powerful financing environment is really important. However, a 50% increase in Technical Development Fund is important in these times and is clearly needed as we look at how low the share rate has been. In fact, outstanding assignments have received a denial, an outstanding project that should, in all cases, be given distribution from such funds but that has not been received. It is a sin, of course, to see behind such assignments.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u128	Mr. President. I am very pleased with the emphasis the government places on innovation and evolution. That is an example, and we wholeheartedly agree on it. What I would like to ask the highest. As a minister, because we are now in a very special situation, is it not wise to look at it and now to increase the financial resources involved? Recently, technology was being referred to, and there was a success rate. Many good applications were rejected there. I'd also like to mention the great need that is, which is reflected, e.g. in 26 companies applied for the so-called Support Crea. The conclusion is that if they can all live up to their terms, 621 million is missing. K. into this selection to meet the approved applications. Because it is never enough repeated about how important it is that this chain be not broken and there is some way to see it. That's why I'd also like to ask if a minister will put money in the budget of development now so that it can be provided in the fall, whether it will promote support-Crea, and finally whether it will be used by the Supreme Court. A minister will use reimbursement for research and development development to be extended. It is now clear that this contracture will last longer than expected at the time of the introduction of the measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u129	Mr. President. First with the Technical Development Fund, a 50% increase is now more than we've seen in the past, so I would say that we were reacting exactly when we see the level of appeal being made because there were outstanding applications that could not be given strength. For the continuation of these increases and percentages due to reimbursement and development, of course, I'm open to the long term. Still, I stress that I have to try to see what it really will bring us because I know it's important to our competitiveness. This will affect the projects, but I would like to see what these changes will bring us when we look at the priorities of decision-making and funding and how we can, in the most powerful ways, strengthen the emerging environment in Iceland. For support-Create, applications are still being reviewed. The final processing process has not been completed. I understand that some company has stopped, which is really happy because support-Coria was an emergency but not additional support for everyone, so the ratio of each company of distribution has increased something. But there is not exactly how much. It is true that the need was more than the funds we expected to make in that regard. Support-Krea was on immediately after this reaction. There was a hurrying of the financial resources in Korea, and at the same time, the intervention from the Technical Development Fund was accelerated, and there is an additional now. If there is a hurry, everything can be considered. But I can say that I am content with both this emphasis and the power that has been put into these measures and the response of the Technical Development Fund to this position and change in society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u130	A respectable president. Now we're dealing with the affairs of tourism, industrial and innovation, and I'd like to ask the highest degree. Ministers in the treasure of the traveller's place, how it is applied, and whether large contributions are to the fund. And if not, it would certainly be the best thing to do, especially to create motor hazards in tourist areas. Sadly, a pot is broken there, and somehow it has not been a priority for anyone to arrange for a tourist location to be available to them. A large group are standing outside that has not been suitable because they need a special place for wheelchairs. Then, of course, there is a large group that has difficulty walking. Wouldn't it be ideal, especially now that few tourists are on their way, spit in and make a good ass to make sure everyone gets there? The other question I'd like to ask the highest. There's more advice about electricalization of the car fleet. What is the situation with the electrical use of disabled cars? It's usually bigger cars. Thus, it would be most practical if the disabled could switch to electric cars. Then, of course, as most of them are, they would need more inference to switch from unfavourable contaminated cars to electric cars. I'd like to ask you if there's a Minister on the table to increase it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u131	Mr. President. Yes, we're back now putting additional funds in the tourist sector of importance, both as economic measures, just to increase the activity and start up projects, and also to use the time when everything's quiet, all too quiet. We've had this conversation about the bioavailability and the implementation of the European Commission Fund for tourism. Certainly, it is not required to obtain from the fund to ensure that bioavailability issues are fully secure. However, there is a great deal of emphasis on both the need to explain and write how to make a possible bioavailability issue. It is needed to check the boxes needed to increase the likelihood of being assigned. But these matters cannot be said to be as good as they should be. And there's no way to say that there's any tip or handle, like a dog. A senator gives me and this sector, doesn't matter because there's a great need for it. There are some people in the community who are living in travel services and who themselves are in wheelchairs that contribute to further awareness in the community. Of course, we wanted to be in a community where such individuals would not have to spend energy, time, and other activities fighting for something to be self - righteous. But it is simply still needed, and thanks can be given to individuals'fighting for it because they have results. Of course, people who get out of public funds are expected to build tourist facilities to make sure that there is access to everyone. This does not mean that access to everyone at the end of the entire destination can be guaranteed, but no one is asking for it. Rather, it is to ensure that everyone can enjoy the destination, be positive, have vision, and so on. It's not bigger than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u132	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. We can agree that if we simply had to issue a command to do so, it would be disastrous. I think that would be an emergency. But I'd like to reiterate that those who are motorized need larger cars, and as a result, they've had customs in their cars. But now that the power comes, there'll be a huge gap between us. It has to be added so that those who are in a position to need special cars can get electricalally equipped cars at the same market as they used to get fuel or diesel trucks. In spring, a market campaign was introduced, with the objective of introducing Iceland as an ideal destination. This market campaign will be paid for by the government. A minister believes it will cost 1.5 billion. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Does she feel that this market campaign will succeed, or does she feel she needs further action? More recently, construction sites have been developed in tourist areas. Yet, there were summer reports that there was a bad situation and that there was a great hurry to the locals near Studall in the East. Is it possible to take action to build a place for tourists in that great location in cooperation with landowners, and similar places where tourists are discovering new places to visit? What are the plans for the future so as not to harm nature?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-07-5.u133	Mr. President. First about the electric cars. Of course, when we want a certain amount of time to have full energy exchange in our country, we want it to be also true of those who need special amounts of automobiles or automobiles, to have it for everyone. So to get the full energy exchange, we need to make sure that we do. I can't say it's in a special opinion of my level, but I'm taking this point to me. An assigned group strengthens and strengthens certain employment sectors and groups. That's obviously where it belongs. In terms of the marketing authorisation, it was added at 1.5 billion U.S. rate. But we've only made small arrangements, probably about 20% of the amount. So I'd say we don't need any more money on the project right now. Of course, there will be a great need for that in due time. When we made that decision, we failed to see that it would be so long. We still do not know when it is reasonable to start going. Part of the project is also to ensure a positive image, that we are delivering certain messages to people who, of course, long for travel when the circumstances permit. This is an important project, but the amount is still largely uninstalled. Much money was now received by support from the sector fund of tourism, which is important. This is an example of a situation in which different landowners face challenges, a common vision, and a common priorities. All of this takes time and while we've been welcoming all these people. It is now an extremely good time to sit quietly and try to find some agreement on how owners want to visualize the structure of the place. We've made it clear that we're open to conversation, and as for the intervention from a tourist trade, we know that this is one of the best magnets in that area. [[The president calls.]] We want it to be built up just to ensure that people are safe and natural. That is why it is good for them to have been assigned there. And it must be ensured that owners have a common vision because the State does not own the land.
