ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u1	The president considers it possible for a meeting to last longer than the Council of Congress, if necessary. Let it be considered approved if no one says the same thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u2	Borist has a letter from the Environment and Resource Minister where request is made in order to provide a written answer for the requested request. 1458, on cleaning services, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u3	To answer, financial and economic ministers, foreign and development co-work ministers and tourism, industrial and innovation ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u4	Mr. President. V.E.G. At the beginning of the viral epidemic, the minister of finance said that the government would do more than much to protect the economy. It is sad, however, that when it comes to the nurse's situation, he seems to do less and more, so he is heading for a nurse's strike, and the situation is very serious. The impact of the study's nasopharyngeal smear on tourists at national borders has been most noted to remind them of the effects on nursing homes, nursing homes, home nursing, health care, the maintenance of walk-in services, and no one to undergo surgery unless there is life, except if screening is successful, the pressures of health care will be increased because of the increase in travel. The viral epidemic has made the importance of many classes, especially large groups of women, even more apparent, that these are systematicly important classes. You see, it's not just airlines that are systematicly important, tops. Secretary of finance. Successful society must rest on two solid, economic stability, and social stability and now aggressive in the second, too. In the autumn of 2016, the same secretary of finance signed an agreement with the employees' parties in connection with the national remuneration rights. It was made clear that in the United States, there was a fixed schedule for balance between public and public employment markets and large groups of public women. Nurses have been uncontracted for another year and have not been allowed to negotiate their terms since 2014. Mr. President. If there is a serious medical situation after June 22, this time, not because of an exotic viral epidemic, but because of a government that does not have the will to negotiate and fulfill this promise. So I ask: Isn't it time to cut the knot and give government negotiation committees more room to negotiate? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u5	A respectable president. The state has seriously had discussions about new collective agreements with nurses. The government has met all the main requirements for this negotiation, which have been a major factor in making the work environment better, making changes in the shift work programme, reducing the hours of work each week, and has reached an agreement for all the major and important factors. In particular, what has survived and has prevented the result from becoming the pay factor. I just have to ask, what language is it? A senator with a contract in general? That's what I think. The senator's obligation to accept every requirement should be to add only to the government when treaties are not reached? Got it. A senator's overall agreement with the government agreements, the promise to the biographer agreements, that men cannot blow the basis of all other contracts? I know why. A senator did not believe that we have reached a decision with about 80% of our clients? Of course you're right. A senator said that it would be a very serious matter if it occurred to a strike, a very serious matter. Well, we're discussing a very important link in the health chain, nurses. We've completed a contract with a nurse, a large group of women in the medical profession. It took a deal to raise the pay, improve the work environment, but we haven't been able to do that in the case of nurses. I have to say one thing about it, it's been a little surprised, because we reached contracts with the medical staff, to hear the tone of nurses that the medical staff have gone up a little too far, and that the gap has become too small. I am surprised because I thought that we had a solid sense of lifting most with those who had remembered. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u6	Mr. President. The agreement offered to nurses included some good things, other things not, but the overall increase they received was offered in their annual steps 68,000 k, which is less than we politicians got, e.g. in one step. And speaking of the context of the parts: Yes, I suppose I'm as well in context as the highest. Minister. But I've also noticed that the highest. Prime Ministers and even financial ministers have adopted and held solemn talks for new social standards, for economic prosperity, and for what it needs to be built. Apparently, then, it must also be based on our meriting these important positions and realizing that they are as systematicly important as even airlines. I'm asking the highest. Finally, a minister: Is there any way that nurses can't negotiate?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u7	A respectable president. That is, I must say, has become very sad at the council how people discuss the ideal public classes. I feel very sad how people want to try to take on political battles at one time by always taking up the one - sided cause of the deal with the State. This has become foreign here at the council for a discussion of extreme matters and is, of course, completely irresponsible advising from the chairman of the United States, who has, in fact, nothing else to offer in this discussion than to agree with all the demands of nurses so that negotiations can be successful and may only be the ones who want to be the basis of all other agreements and the impact on them. Of course, this is not an acceptable presentation. In no way. And there is also no situation at a council hall to talk about all the diverse factors involved in a collective agreement that are relevant to this process. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] - Pay is important. Senator. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u8	President. This morning, there was an infestologist interviewing the group on the Wavelula, where we were being dealt with a so - called second wave, possibly, of the Covid's disease that has attacked us. It said that it was possible that as many people would get sick, it could be similar to that in March and April when the wave hit us. I'd like to ask the highest. In view of this, whether the second wave will be as violent as it may be. Are we going to have to close this country again? Is that how you react to preparation? I'm also wondering, at least. Minister, to now stand to spend money in advertising the country again. If we have to close the country again, how will it affect them? Have people thought about that? That's the first question. The second question comes from a completely different source. More than 150 days ago, a petition was adopted here for Ministers on the Contestation. These are three relatively simple questions about the United States Contestant, how they benefit from their work. It is now 150 days and the answer to these three questions has not yet been received. I'd like to ask the minister, is it because the Ministry isn't answering, or is there no evidence from the Contestance Control on these questions? They are pointedly: How often have outsiders been put in charge of fusion control? Who are these people? What has been paid for this service? I find it very special if the answers to those simple questions cannot be gathered in 150 days. I want to know, where's the problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u9	Mr. President. As to the second question, the answer would simply lie on me. That's on my mind, and I expect to get it to the council today or tomorrow. It was certainly called for information from the SEC, since these data are not in the Ministry, so the answer will be based, on the nature of the case, on evidence from the Contestant Board that may be rather difficult for me to consider. So the Ministry gets the data there, and I expect to get the answer to the council this week. It's about that we're opening up the country in the way we do, knowing that there's a possibility of a relapse and another wave, people with weak powers, but based on evidence, they're going to read the probability of doing so. So we prepare for another wave, and we take what we have to do with it. However, we also work to make sure that this way involves acceptable risks and, of course, take steps and assume, as it has been observed, that there is a transmission and that there may be a class infection, etc. But in terms of a whole new wave, it's just a project we're dealing with. With regard to the campaign, there is a great flexibility in it because of the external circumstances in which unexpected things may arise, but we work because we want to open the country and compete with other countries to get tourists here, so it is absolutely right to make this effort, but the flexibility that matters. We will then be able to apply it and the resources it will go on in that way. If there is another wave, we simply need to revise the measures we now have. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u10	Mr. President. If there's another wave, it'll say the top. Minister. We all hope that there will be no other wave, but unfortunately, it is now that most people expect it to be. We'll see, for example. now that in China there is clearly some condition, another wave is about to start, and in fact, it is expected in most countries compared with the news and statements you are reading. What I'm really asking about is, Is the government or the authorities who take these matters up and close the country again, coming the second wave? Is it one of the ideals of people to go back to the way they went when the land was closed or to look at any other action when the second wave, as serious as some seem to be, is it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u11	Mr. President. It is true that we already see a setback in various lands. Perhaps that is why the approach that is not universal in the countries around us and we decided to go, i.e. screening anyone coming here from 15 years of age and older, possibly growing older than many of the decisions in other countries. We thus have a perspective, and we can see from these data and have some very important clues. It would be a shock if we had to close the country again. I'm not going to be a prophet about what may happen because we know so little, even though we know much more now. Of course, if we feel that we cannot have the land at all, that is a conclusion. We are far more involved in other measures than the need to close the country, and that would be a shock if it did. I also remind you of the way we handled our faces because the risk of infection from tourists is much smaller than ours because of the lack of association with tourists in this area.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u12	President. At an open meeting of the Board of Directors and Observers Committee for the past Monday, it said it was the highest level. The secretary of finance is not ashamed to have called attention to the alleged political involvement of the Þorvaldur son of Gylfason in the recruitment process of the editors of the Norwegian scholarly journal Nordic Economic Policy Review. At the same meeting, the highest said. Minister, with permission of presidents: I don't think I've been sending any messages into the Academy, but I've often wondered at the communications sent by the Academy. President. On the following day of a controversial meeting, the management of professors at the State University sent out a statement for the recruitment process, including the permission of a president: Professors at State College strongly protest the political involvement of the Icelandic Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs of the magazine's recruitment issues. This intervention lacks a moral basis and exposes the lack of understanding of scientific activity. They put down the Norwegian magazine and are the Ministry for comment. A community in the United States has the least reason to believe that governments place a stone in the path of scientists left behind in the strength of their knowledge. The Swedish newspaper Dagen Nyheter also reports that the late editor of the magazine, the world - famous economist Lars Calmfors, fears that Iceland's stand against the fact that the Þorvaldur is an editorial on political grounds can harm the credibility of the magazine. So I ask the highest. Minister if he has received this message from the Academy, whether he will take it to himself, and if they have changed his mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u13	A respectable president. There was no alleged political involvement by the professor. The Vatican noted that the professor had been active in politics at the time, being a political president. And, yes, I think there's a very grammatical introduction in the discussion about a person whether he's been active in politics or not. It was never claimed that the subject was still the chairman, and before the assassination, it was decided. I must say that I believe that the management of professors' society has failed this test, failed the test of a realistic project we've been discussing. There are no differences in viewpoints, no sources, etc., based on a one - sided account of the case, and reached a complete conclusion without considering all the factors involved. This is simply not a political issue. This conclusion has no implications in the discussion of this matter, and the same is true of the concern of this professor of Sweden. A senator says he's world - famous, and I know he's highly respected in Sweden. Then it just doesn't matter what the day's discussion is. It seems he had an impact on the fact that the situation was offered to Þorvaldur without asking us Icelanders, which is prerogative. The key point is that people are here using machines for positions we should influence on how to function, who will be selected for the job. And that is what has been exposed in this matter. I'm pointing out what. A senator is trying to figure out the main issue that is that of self - intentioning, without asking us Icelanders, to resolve the matter. It's the scandal in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u14	A respectable president. V.E.G. Minister's giving credit to Professors. I'm sure I'm sorry to hear what's at the top. A minister has little respect for the educational community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u15	Is that a theoretical conclusion?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u16	V.E.G. A minister has concluded that Lars Calmfors's acquaintance with the Þorvaldur of Gylfason was likely behind his appointment to the Þorvaldur for the ministry. Calmfors responded to this statement at the highest rate. A minister in an interview with the Women's newspaper who said he was never in his 50 - year career has been accused of playing cards with his peers. Calmfors restated that he had recommended Þorvaldur's work as a result of his skill, a versatile economist with practical experience and international recognition as such. Then Calmfors, with the permission of the president, said: To put it simply, I find the minister's comment, as it were, in the translation I was sent, amazing. It happens to everyone to say something thoughtlessly under pressure. Nevertheless, I would still appreciate receiving an apology from the minister when he has thought the matter over. So I ask the highest. Minister: Has he already thought about it and planned to apologize to Lars Calmfors? But the Þorvaldur of Gylfason?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u17	A respectable president. It's getting pretty fancy. This presentation is getting pretty fancy. First of all, it's not right that I said anything about this. I said, "From a distance, it looks like two old acquaintances are talking to each other and making arrangements for this particular position from a distance. ' I didn't know anything about it, I made it clear. I had no idea if they knew each other well, but it is now stated in the meantime by this Swedish professor, his favorite professor. A senator said they were friends. That's all that's happened in the meantime. And why would I be going to ask some professor in Sweden to apologize for pointing out what everyone sees, after the evidence of this case has been presented, that without any question that we Icelanders were asked, people were talking and mailing them to the Icelandic professor who had been offered the vacancy. [[Up front.]] Who's going to apologize to us for that? [[The president calls.]] Who's going to apologize to us for using a case in which we had every right to approach, asking ourselves? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u18	A respectable president. May 13th. said the highest. Secretary of finance in unsubstantiated queries per word, by permission of the president: The President of the United States. It is of good interest to report here that the government wrote last year under a special declaration linked to the biographer agreements that discussed the insurance and the composition of the index. It called for the employee movement to assume that for the council, there would be a bill where the mortgage would go from the index point of view. In the meantime there have been some events, but in recent meetings with these same partners, advocates of the employment movement, there was a view that the requirement to accept the mortgage was ignored because they felt that it did not serve, under the circumstances of the present, the interests of the worker in the country. That's the situation right now. I'd like to ask the highest. Financial Minister: They were all labor leaders and if not, who were they? The second question is: The biographer contracts: much. Will a financial minister bring them down by not accepting the insurance? Is that something to do? In the press on budgets, the highest was said. Word of the financial minister, by permission of the President: ▪ In recent years, we have had absolutely extraordinary development of social security donations that have almost doubled the real value of payment in a few years. Are these numbers included in a tremendous decrease now 160 billion? If so, and once this double recalculation of social security donations was calculated, the highest is known. On average, ministers who are in the lowest disability may be paid by taxes, and what older citizens who are on the lowest tax paid by Social Security, on average, get paid by taxes?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u19	A respectable president. The question is, Where did these views appear? Workgroups have been working where they want to make sure that there is a common understanding of the progress of individual projects. When it came to terms of insurance and the composition of the index, it was found at a meeting that I believe was with the ASI and the representatives of the individual trade unions in the ASI, that the housing team was no longer under focus. I made this public statement, and I don't know that anyone has made any comments about it. It's asked if I'm going to take a light bed and I'm going to be upset by the insurance policy. I'm just saying, there's no reason for it to be that way. I think we've had some of the most positive trends, both growth and inflation, which we've been living with for a long time, and there's no reason to let insurance be a big deal. I've put in charge of the government parties, and it's come through the government, a bill that has previously appeared here at the council. I know there's some comments to that, but I'm following my promise to force 40-year equally paid loans, conditional insurance. The length of these conditions, in turn, is always considered. Other than that, in terms of the buy-power development, I have to make a second answer. But I specifically point to the history of income, where this can be considered in a very good way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u20	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answered. I can completely inform him that I know that the leader of the largest labor movement, U.S.R., considers the insurance to be part of the biography agreements. And if not addressed, the biographer contract has been broken. But I'd like to inform him that in recent years, the two-fold real value of social security has not been very successful. As I came to see earlier, the 60 billion impairments are now, and we know that pension payments, on average, 70% after taxes, and the decrease and the pay of micro-germs, are 220,000 dollars. paid and $250,000. for older citizens. We said it was really cool after the double.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u21	A respectable president. History reveals a time - consuming process. It can be viewed from a variety of sides; individual groups, showing examples of partners, individuals, and what we see, it is especially true that older citizens have enjoyed a great deal of money gain in recent years, above all other groups. This can be seen. It's based on real-life data. But you're right next to what you're talking about. A senator may not bring in every cent directly in his pocket because there is an increase in the number. The groups are growing up that take care of them, but the total financial hills have about being doubled in recent years, whether or not we look at a pensioner or a donor in disability. I agree with what. A senator says that we should look especially at those who are remembered when we're renovating the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u22	Mr. President. There is now reports that Iceland fell from a list of competitiveness countries and is at the bottom of the northern countries. Iceland falls there, including in the category on official and internal effectiveness. It's too bad we went down four places in an economic performance, from 54 down to 58. This underscores what was known and what was known, and we repeatedly pointed out that the recovery of the economy had already begun for Covid and a government fund. Of course, this does not lead to the relief of the nation's economic situation. Our competitiveness tells us much about our country's standard of living and its development for the next few years, the job opportunities and the provision of the households. Moreover, it does not help us to see that the currency that the U.S. dollar also works against all these factors. When unemployment is now flying to the highest heights, our competitiveness has never been more important. For this reason, I ask the highest. The minister of finance how he intends to respond to this position, which might have been done earlier, more than a year ago, and it repeatedly pointed out that the economic forecast of a financial program is far too optimistic. It is, therefore, true to ask more questions about what is the highest. Ministers feel this trend in Iceland's competitiveness and how he intends to react. Then, in particular, I would like to ask him how he intends to cope with a massive unemployment crisis and will likely remain in the fall of a coming one and the next winter without any special planning. [[The president calls.]] So I ask what is going to happen. Minister in that context?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u23	A respectable president. That in itself would be a basis for giving a special discussion about our competitiveness, our standards, our position, and where we can do better. In my time at the Ministry, I've had specific analyses of those indicators and I'd like to use them to do better. Of course, it is true that only starts to reduce growth during the first year, and the prognosis of WOW is particularly worse after the fall of WOW, which had a very high impact for a short period of time. They may have played in. On the other hand, I think too far went to say that the budget, as it went through the council, was some of the root cause that the economic outlook was not as reliable as it had been before. It is simply the interaction of many factors that have made it economic in terms of only the bad side of the world with us. There's a lot of trouble in the travel service. What interests me now is that we look at the factors where we are the submers of others. I'll have to mention here one project that I think is of particular importance to, which is Digital Iceland. There I think we can greatly enhance the effectiveness of public, increased production, apart from improving our ministry and increasing our faith and trust in the public system, which can have a great and positive effect, freeing new powers, easy employment in this relationship. We've been financing a fortune there. But the system also has a view of the government today, and I think we have too many things to do. We need to keep simplifying it and setting the goals that I feel are why. A senator is demanding, standing among those who are foremost. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u24	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers, though they may have needed a few things, as is the case when the time is short. Of course, it is obvious that the nations are now in a great hurry to cope with the problem created by the Covid epidemic and that we are working hard to improve our competitive status, so that it is not as if we are in some void where everything is still around us and that there is enough to be done by something small and thus we get past others or get up the stairs. I'd like to use this opportunity here on the second question and ask the highest question. Minister of any action is a hope intended to increase sector diversity, and especially to promote the international sector and the use of intelligent exports that contribute to sustainable and long-term economic growth. [[The president calls.]] I think this is one of the most urgent projects we are facing, and it's interesting to hear the glimpses of the highest. Secretary of finance on that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u25	A respectable president. One of the things mentioned in this latest assessment is the lack of foreign investment. I'm going to have to mention two things I think can cause her to increase. First, by continuing to work on economic stability in the country that we've done well in this new budget of public finance, we've now redesigned the Secret Bank and are seeing that the tools we have to sustain Iceland are much better built, much more efficient than ever. If we can contribute to an increase in economic stability, I think we'll be better able to improve the diversity of the economy, get more corporate fleas, and thereby strengthen the export sectors. The other is all that has been reduced to innovation, and this government has been making quite handsome; large contributions to the competitive fund, but also giving all kinds of appeals, taxes, because of research and development. That's what I think I'm going to do for a great deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u26	Mr. President. Nearly one year ago, the General Assembly approved a landmark piece at the highest level. A minister who was then just a private senator insisted that the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinguished People should be legalized. The proposal makes it clear that the objective is to validate the contract by December 13th. I trust, Mr. President, that the Council is fully gassed to prepare for the tremendous legal refinement of the firmament. This would make Iceland one of the first countries in the world to legalize this deal. But I'm here asking about another smell of this matter. On September 20, 2016, this hall approved the so - called Syllabics for the addition of the same agreement. According to the approval of the Generals, the validation was to be completed by the end of 2017. It's been a long time. In addition, there is an increase in costs for individuals and groups who feel that the Icelandic government has not granted them the right they have under the contract, and they have in vain used the resources they have. A more effective way to enforce the contract, the security of disabled persons, and the human rights of the disabled will be protected and many feel inadequate. Mr. President. Now it's June 2020, and the added selections, the importance added, have not been validated, as we agreed in this room that we were going to and should do. We agreed on that 2016. I would especially like to mention that Páll Valur Björnsson, a former senator and deputy, held this for a long time and that I especially want to commend him for that. One year ago, he asked Prime Minister Jakobsdóttir about these matters, saying to the prime minister: ▪ There's nothing I can say but the fact that I take the sharpening edge. A senator who will discuss the matter with the Supreme Court. Minister of Justice who is expected to handle this case according to a plot of action. The will of the Generalis lies in the motion. It is very important for a member of the council to mention it, and it is very important that this desire be done. So the ball is with the Minister of Justice. Therefore, Mr President, I ask, what is the situation in this matter? [[The president calls.]] Will this increase be validated, and when? Or will he even be legalized, as the General has agreed, to fulfill the contract with himself? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. That's right. That's right. Senator I was a member of the council's resolution. A senator on the legalisation of the United Nations on the rights of disabled people. Of course, there are very clear goals, primarily to promote, defend, and guarantee human rights as well as basic freedoms for all disabled people as well as for others. What I suggested when I entered the Ministry on this contract, but also the selective supplement. A senator makes a subject for today, and was actually agreed by 2016's decision to validate, as the senator indicated, was that there must be an assessment of what it involves for us to accept such commitments. This had not been done with the selective appendix, exactly what his validation meant, and how it would work, but especially, in terms of cost estimates before finishing such an assignment. Also, it would have to be determined what could result, what would be the result of other countries, how this would be in harmony with our rules, and what we might have to do before we could fulfill the commitments that I hope we are doing in most respects with the agreement in particular. I wanted to have that sort of opinion and consultation in the Ministry. However, it has been a significant factor for the Covid projects that have come up and delay the work, so I don't want to promise any time until it is set in motion. But I think it's important to get that diagnosis before it's done. That is correct. A senator in charge of this deal. It is a powerful tool in the battle for the human rights of disabled people, but we need to look to it in order to believe that they are human rights today. I've wanted this job to start at the Ministry, but it's been delayed, so I can't give you exactly the exact timing of that job.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u28	A respectable president. I take my heart to this challenge to the Minister of Justice and thank you very much. paritaprevir Ólafur Ágústsson Áglússson's Auguste for pointing this out. I encourage ministers to board up the sleeves and call in people, now there are plenty of qualified people who need work, and if ever there was a need, now it is to see for once and for all that the United Nations Convention will be legalized and added. We've stopped the practice, that there's been a violation of the rules against disabled people, e.g. in new buildings and traffic, i.e. articulating walkways and activities in which rules are being violated systematically. It would not be possible if we had legalized both the agreement and the appendix. We're just gonna get on with it. There are money to hire people, and there should be money to get people out of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u29	Mr. President. The present minister of justice is a very important ally of this class, has shown this by action. I have high hopes that it will validate this will of the council, which was confirmed four years ago that the chosen Annex should be validated. There seemed to be some doubt in the past. That's what a senator's got to do with it. That is why I would like to make a clear question: Is it not for the Minister of Justice to validate the selective appendix? In this regard, what is the minister's political opinion? It points to the need for her to complete certain analyses and cost estimates. All right. I trust this will be done in a rapid and successful manner and will be done this summer and fall, as December 13 is near. Which date is that? This is the date that points to the completion of the contract itself. I wanted to ask another question to the minister: Is that not absolutely enough to keep that date? It is of utmost importance that the approval of the council of the United Nations on the rights of disabled people be established. There's a big difference between legalization and validation. I'm not going to do it, but there's a huge difference between whether an international contract is legalized or validated. To put it in a context, Iceland has, in fact, established only three international contracts. We've made lots of international contracts, and we've validated them, but we have only legalized the children's covenant, the European Convention of Human Rights, and then the EEA Convention. With our proposal that the United Nations Convention on Human Rights must be legalized, we are making the same covenant as these huge international treaties that we have legalized; the children's Convention, the European Convention of Human Rights, and the EEA Convention. Just so people came to realize the breakthroughs we took last year and how important it is, when we agreed to my council proposal that the contract should be legalized. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] At the outset, I reiterate the question of the minister's political position to complete the validation of the optional Annex.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u30	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. Of course, we need to consider the choice appendix that I myself know a little less than the contract itself, what would result from validating it. The result of such a charge should be trust for the person who makes such a case, both that the conclusion meets the requirements of legal redemption and that there is no unrealistic expectation of what comes out of such a conclusion, which is not necessarily binding thereafter. This is what I would like to take a closer look at and see what effect would have and what results this will have, how it harmonizes with our system today and what it would actually add. That's the analysis I'm working on and the same work is going on with the contract, that opinion and consultation, including In terms of cost assessment. Of course, we are reevaluating all expenses after the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u31	Mr. President. It can rightly be said that the term "sanity " is somewhat broad, as well as its definition may contain different factors depending on the context of it. Basically, what is next to us, to our person, to our life, to our members, and to our personal life. In most Western communities, therefore, immunity is made higher than any other community's values. At the top of the subject field. Ministers are a number of groups in which the concept of independence is of special importance. There are some prisoners and others who have displayed a spirit of freedom. As a result, these groups are in a more sensitive position when it comes to rights and how others respect their right to immunity. In fact, as a community, we have a depravity policy to deprive these individuals of their immunity. More important, then, the entire justice system, law enforcement system, and the justice system are on guard and give special attention to the sanctity of life. If corpses are involved, it is also very important that those with these responsibilities take special note that people are aware of the sensitive positions of those under them. There are also the positions of immigrants and refugees, sometimes made to be ruled by others as well as the decisions they make regarding survival and status that may conflict entirely with their own ideas and values. It is often associated with people who are in a more sensitive position and who even find it difficult to express themselves and their own wishes, as well as who are deeply counting on community support. The individual's will is a key factor in the individual's spirituality, so there are various aspects of how these individuals treat and provide services. It is also important to discuss this in the context of legal laws and depravity on the basis of them. Discrimination has not been defined specifically in the public law. However, it is available in XXV. a few articles relating to privacy, which includes several aspects of privacy, as well as offenses against character, life, and limbs of people, which may not be defined as a concept. And it may be specifically stated, Mr. President, that after approval of the Parliament's resolution to moral values and priorities in health care, which are precisely defined as baseline, it is even more important to consider this, that we are all on the same page. Therefore, as indicated in the inquiry, the highest level is asked. Ministers believe that human immunity is a well-designed law in the Ministry's topic field, whether it feels that the concept of the real population could be clearly established by law. And finally, whether a minister even believes that the concept is too intangible to simply make it possible for national legislation to be successful. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u32	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these interesting inquirys about the weekend. Of course, I began to examine the laws of my language immunity. It may be only in one law in particular, i.e. ..................... g., as well as the limited portions of the John Book of People are still in effect. But the term is also found in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in three European Conventions, which are part of the European Union, i.e. International Convention on Civil and Political Rights, International Convention on Deletion of All Racism and United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinctive People. Human rights protection is also reflected in other human rights contracts, although the term does not occur specifically there, such as in question. To form in the United Nations Convention on Child Rights and in various laws discussing individual rights, such as legal law, child law, and general penal law, a member of the body discussed. The European Convention on Human Rights is not specifically defined in the European Convention or in the international agreements it presents, and I have mentioned this. However, it is not to be seen that there is a special doubt in its content, whether it is considered the Supreme Court's judgment, the Universal agent's opinion, or the writing of human rights to scholars. The term has a long history in Icelandic legal language and refers to the privacy of the individual and the personal rights that are precious to all people. A senator came in. The essence of the term is reflected, including in John's People Book of Human Rights, an attack on the person of violence and other forms of attack. In human rights contracts, the right to enjoy immunity in general is to be protected from violence and physical harm, whether from public employees, individuals, or institutions. The concept has also been considered to include a person's right not to be free - minded on the basis of a decision, and it is reflected, for example, in a positive way. in the European Court of Human Rights. When asked whether the term could be expressed more clearly in the local Ministry's language or in other ways, it can also be reasoned that it does not establish its definition in a law text because it may have a completely limited concept, and definitions according to the needs of different law columns could cut it out of context with the meaning behind the word. In addition, it is not easy to define incomprehensible and evaluable terms such as weekend life in short but also accessible. However, it is also important that the laws reflect and protect common principles such as those used in the term and the same views apply to a number of other terms found in the library without specifically defined terms, in order to form freedom, fairness, privacy, and public interest. In view of the fact that neither the term "ethnic " nor the terms I listed, there has been no special doubt about it, it must be considered more desirable to interpret according to the circumstances in accordance with the values to which it is fundamental. So I agree that it is a matter of an intangible concept that is complex in that these areas of personal rights have various dimensions that can be exposed to different fields of justice. And as I have mentioned above, it is more desirable in my opinion that there is a degree of flexibility in the interpretation of the arrangement according to its circumstances, although at all times it is maintained in connection with the undisputed values reflected in the term.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u33	Mr. President. Hjálmarsson, a child-adolescent doctor on BUGL, a medical paper this year, has permission of the president's permission: ▪ Man's weekend is the right to personal safety and provides our own self - image. Go on, Björn says, with the permission of the President: ▪ Publicity preserves the self - determination right of an individual, that is a person's personal right to be and to become what he himself chooses to be. [...] Our weekend is the most sacred area that no human power can touch, unless life rests on or well - defined social threat. Consistentness may be required of those who take this important term, humanity, mouth, and much more so what they do. It may be asked whether harmony is involved when it comes to those who do not confess that unborn babies in their womb have the right to which they are born. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u34	A respectable president. I would have preferred that this material be taken up for a long time, it would take a whole day if it was to be discussed in any detail. Peoples are not only human rights; they also include certain responsibilities laid upon him, e.g. that the legislator has committed individual duties to obtain pension rights and these pension rights reduce social security benefits at any given time. Similarly, for a person to maintain his dignity, he may have a little savings in order to advance in his old age, but in recent years the legislators have constantly pressed the factors by super taxing a person's savings so that the real taxation of savings is far more than 100% compared to the current tax rate. I'd like to remind the Senate, on this extraordinary opportunity, that a person owns that right, that he owns that property right, and that lawgiver must secure it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u35	Mr. President. Recently, there was a proposal for moral values and priorities in health care. There, a chronicler of the term "sanity " came to the fore, stressing that this term was more than just another set of values. I'll agree with that. But the concept of privacy does not apply to everyone, in the opinion of a leading leader, when he answered that the unborn are beyond human immunity. He appealed them to a new law on abortion, where it is permitted to kill an unborn day before it can be rescued. The law of abortion that was approved just a year ago was one of the priorities of the government, with a health minister at the head. The fact that this government is abdicating its immunity to health services is virtual. The new abortion law is a black mark on this government, and it does not bring blessings, as everyone sees.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u36	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson for starting a discussion on this concept, human weekend, and in dealing with a few of the highest levels of communication. Minister. Of course, this concept, permanence, we can look from different sides, and that is what we should do in the opening point. That certainly is relevant in our modern society and, for example, in our day. is certainly relevant to us generals, whose culture of conflict is so deeply rooted here and because we need to change. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he believes that we have an undisputed definition of this concept, of human identity, and of whether he considers it to be a reason to find it and to be in a constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u37	President. I'm following the conference that takes place in the conference hall on this word, weekend. I have to say, I'm thinking, and I'm disappointed to listen to the language here. Surely we can assume that under the possibility of a man - made weekend, his wife and her rights are also involved. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u38	Madam President. I'd like to thank the members of the council who have participated in this brief discussion and the highest. Minister for her answers. As members of Congress have come in, the term can be extended in various directions when it is defined or even when it is discussed. For my part, I agree with a minister that it may be very difficult to put our hands on exactly what we are dealing with, and as much as it may be wise to allow it to be that way because, over time, and through social evolution, attitudes may change. It's important. To my disillusionment, I state that this discussion of a pregnancy break that took place about six months ago, choosing to keep it entirely apart from the rights given to women in the big and important matter, and I'm just leaving that discussion there. It's a connection between the human nature concept and the rights of possession, like what? paritaprevir Will Bjarnason came in, is an interesting friend, but I'm not going to spin that thread any further. About a cheeky whale. paritaprevir The Guðjón S. Brjánsson of the constitution and definition of the Constitution is just something that I and the highest. Prior in the winter, prime minister discussed the same concept. That's interesting. I think it should be in the Constitution work. But I'm not at the point where I think it should be defined in a constitution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u39	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by saying thank you. A senator for this discussion. It was interesting to be digging for the location of immunity in the Ministry's topic field. I agree that this is an incomprehensible and intricate concept, and I still think it would be difficult to put it in a fixed shape to cover all that we believe is in it. Of course, there were some things in the discussion, but I was disappointed with the discussions about pregnancy and the disrespect I felt to the woman's decision to make, as her decision is life and body, and that is her decision. That is especially because of my convictions about the individual's freedoms, and the self - determination of self - determination, I believe that the bill was a great success. Although this discussion was not involved, I felt it was necessary to get there. But I appreciate it. A senator for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u40	V.E.G. President. The privacy of the home is rich and should be respected. Family violence has long been under discussion, and much has been done to cope with it, as fragile as it is, especially when it comes to children. But what came to my mind when I asked this inquiry was that during the time of the Covid crisis, there were more reports of domestic violence coming up. It may be likely that they were due to the conditions they faced, as people were suffering from home conditions, and unemployment was increasing. There was a lot of uncertainty. Of course, such situations involve fear and insecurity. It also plays on the news of the increase in alcohol and other drug abuse during this situation. Family violence has long occurred, and it has developed and developed into the delicate category, so to speak. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister of Justice three questions in this verse: How many reports of domestic violence have been received this year? How has the number of reports developed in recent years? And third: A wise minister takes action against domestic violence, and if so, how so? How vital it is that we take care of this group and be careful! How sad to know that children are usually present when the violence takes place, and they do not know where the weather is coming from! Often this is the case when children who have experienced such a situation become adults carry that mark and then face up to their own problems in life because it has happened to them at an early age.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u41	A respectable president. I'm going to thank you. A member of the council in particular for bringing in this inquiry and this important discussion. First, I'm going to review the minuteest information. A senator asks about. Since 2015, there have never been more domestic violence for one month than in May 2020 and before April 2020. In May 2020, the announcements were 106 and 101 in April. At the same time, there were 19% more domestic violence during the first 23 weeks of 2020, while only 2% more were seen in 2018. More fractures have been committed to seven of the nine officers in the first 23 weeks of 2020 than at the same time last year, with the largest increase in the three largest. The mean number of fractures per week for the first five months of the year is comparable to 2018 and 2020, which were substantially lower over the same period of 2019. The trend has therefore been variable as well as the number of months, but the average number of fractures has been 75 per month over the period of 2017/2020 and the mean number of fractures in the first five months 2020 is high, 88 fractures. Whether the average number of fractures declines over the second part of the year or the number of fractures remains to be determined only by the police's data as to whether the number of fractures is increasing or only reports rising. It is important to monitor this trend to determine if there has really been a change in the number of fractures. To do this, the public's experience with violations of police evidence needs to be reviewed, for example. conducted by the patient survey carried out by the police at the beginning of each year. A great deal of good has been happening in the media over the past few years, and further improvements are still being made. Family violence is one of the priorities of the government Treaty, but in 2016 there was a special law in the penalties that describe close relationship violence and punishes it. It sent a very clear message to the community that violence in close relationships will not be tolerated, and all such matters are not private matters that are private. The police in the capital area took an important initiative in these matters and changed their behavior, and they began taking these matters more seriously. Police were instructed on the nature and speciality of these fractures, since they are usually the first on the scene, were assured more cooperation with recall social services, suspected of domestic violence, change in the study of fractures, and the collection of data, and later calls for some examples. Another police officer has been following that job, and the police council is an outstanding stage for an individual office to continue its experience and to help one another, as in this issue. Then, necessary changes were made to a restraining order in order to improve this measures and make them easier to treat. The police have called for an enforcing order to be imposed into the penalties and expect me to bring a bill in the fall with this change, and these changes lead to an increase in the protection of offenders, which often starts with domestic violence. In turn, one of the most important factors in the work process is to ensure that the violations and bacteria are properly and fully assisted. In 2017, Bjarkargöllá was opened, and in 2019 Bjarmahund, in Akureyri, a center for the tolerance of violence. There is an important work in which you can focus on strengthening the victims of violence in close relationships to seek help and counsel. While the support has proved itself and the attendance has increased year by year, more charges have been raised today, both increasing in number, in number, in number from house to house, as well as in domestic abuse charges. The changes in the restraining device have given rise and are a great deal of pleasure with them to communicate it, but there may still be a little more definition of how we can make that resolution even more effective. But everything I have listed and mentioned here shows that a rich understanding is within the system of sensitive positions of those who have suffered violence in close relationships and sexual abuse and who are eager to improve their rights and reduce the consequences of their health and feelings. A senator came in. The legal legislation is now being revised in order to meet the offenders in particular and to improve their legal status in the field of research and treatment. The changes are designed to increase confidence in the justice system and thus increase the likelihood that victims of violence will turn to the authorities and to a degree of crime. In addition, in May, we organized a social minister, a special domestic action team, because of the increase in violence we saw against children in Covid's time, and the actions will have to do with vulnerable groups, including children, women of foreign origin, elderly, and disabled people who have shown that there is a greater risk of violence. The team is assigned to follow other general measures, in accordance with proposals for action against violence and the consequences of what was accepted here, educational, services, and the support of victims of violence. [[The president calls.]] I believe the message is clear. Violence is not to be passed in our society, and we have not stopped improving the legal status of such ones. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u42	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to observe this discussion, and I wholeheartedly agree with the above words. Minister of Justice that there have certainly been good things done in this case. I think it's important to keep it up, because it's not good for those who tolerate it to feel that the support network and the system we live in is not enough to provide the protection it should provide. I also agree that reports and fractures are always difficult to handle, i.e. What's a real increase. In itself, there may be a positive result for the announcement of a hidden class, which shows that the level of awareness and belief in the system is increasing, and therefore the charges of tolerance are public. I'd like to consider what the court case has been about this party. I have felt that the legal system of domestic violence is not the same as the severity of sexual abuse. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Though I'm not a spokesman for a great kick, I'm very lenient to those offenses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u43	The President reminds me of the deadline, but it's only 1 minute. for other members of this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u44	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the inquiry and the discussion and the Minister for the answers. Family violence is a lot of misery that we usually have, and I don't know the complete proportion, to women and children. Sadly, this is true even if there are likely to be other examples. A link between economic conditions, crisis, and epidemics has now been established and violence, i.e. That there's an increase in violence in times like this. So I'd be interested if a minister could think of us or take it as a suggestion to investigate these relationships, to follow this relationship in particular, and to prepare for the possible actions that could be taken when the next epidemic or next crisis overtakes us, since it happens regularly. It is important to learn from what is going on today, to fix what can be fixed, and to prove ourselves ready.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u45	Madam President. First, it is proper to state that the privacy of the home cannot be, nor must it ever be protected from violence. Violence within the household's walls must be as violent as any other form of violence, and it is to be taken in great measure. There is no need to have many comments on how serious such violence is and how much and how deeply the consequences can be. I think it is particularly important for us now to watch very rigidly of that group. We look ahead to time, and they are beginning to occur, where uncertainty, unemployment, and fear of the people's future will increase and, unfortunately, will likely remain, at least the following months, and even the loss. It is known and known that it affects what is taking place within the homes, and we need to be on special alert right now. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u46	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Foreman. The request is important, and as more people do, I noticed this coverage on the news in connection with the Covid epidemic. The statistics that the Minister gives the Senate world here are serious, these are striking numbers. I wanted to go to the highest. Minister of Justice, according to which two police districts have not been increased, just curiously. You've heard stories about a region where no domestic violence is reported. I hope it is because there is really no domestic violence, but unfortunately, statistics elsewhere show that this is hardly true. At the end, I wanted to mention support for those outside the capital area. An example of a successful assignment still lacks a haven for women who are suffering from domestic violence. [[The president calls.]] That can be done much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u47	Madam President. International society is a disgrace to domestic violence. As we have seen, we are disappointed that this has increased. I'm sure there are a number of reasons, but I believe, and I agree with what was presented earlier in the Sermon on the Mount. The senator, that the judicial action we live in may not have been desirable. I recently recall, for example, that there was a prison guard removal of a person who had committed gross domestic violence. He went free and was able to clean up his work in such cases. In the present situation, it is necessary that the local police be well prepared and able to handle matters successfully. Unfortunately, it is quite cold to the police from this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u48	I would like to thank you very much for this discussion and very meaningful answers to the highest degree. Minister. I feel a great willingness to handle these matters better. It was evident in her reply that in April and May most of the announcements in this matter were for a long time or simply from the beginning. It was also shown that there is more work to be done to help those who are suffering and who are doing it. People are often ill and are prone to alcoholism and drug addiction. The fact is, a lot of people who hold this disease are on a waiting basis for alcohol and drug abuse, and I have reliable clearance that most of the problems are in the homes. It has often been claimed that those at the bottom of the disease are homeless. There's a lot to it. But the largest number is just ordinary household members. They wait at home for help and fail to receive treatment because the list of waitings is long. They are often people who have taken several treatments. So I would like to encourage the Minister of Justice to help the health minister work on cleaning the waiting lists so that people can get the necessary resources in that area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u49	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you very much for this fine discussion and make some of the points that were directed to me. I agree with what. paritaprevir The village of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir Gunníddóttir that the entire domestic violence process needs to be reviewed, as was done in a sexual offense in the case of the then minister, Ólöf Nordal, of the treatment of sexual abuse within the justice system, where the whole system and all the steps were examined and reviewed. That work is still going on. Much has been done to improve, and something else is being done to improve. Of course, that is an ongoing process. I agree with what. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson to determine that the task force we set up against Covid is designed to determine in particular how the increase is, why and what you can do to respond better next. What was good and started at the beginning of the epidemic and the economic hardships we faced was a special campaign by the police to encourage reports, which was directed to the victims and especially to children, i.e. special advertisements and other means of getting them to know how to report a fraction, incentive to do so, and clear direction. It started immediately and hopefully made more announcements, of course important. I agree that we need to be on special alert in the three districts where the fractions are reduced or the number stands, on the West, in the Western Islands, and in the Northern West. They are then slightly increasing in Western lands, but they are still considerably fewer than 2018. That's the four districts. But that's not a lot of cases, and maybe we'll see a little more correlated with the larger districts. I'll agree with what else. A senator that the service to tolerability must be in place throughout the country. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we need to be sure. I appreciate it, by the way. paritaprevir For his discussion and encouragement, Páll Jónsson Sigurður the victory.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u50	Thanks, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u51	V.E.G. President. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that now the health minister has reported ahead effects in this inquiryal period. It was to ask the highest. Minister to the waiting list, screened tourists. At the same time, we know that the minister has avoided installing a welfare committee to discuss just these tests. For at least two weeks, the committee tried to get a minister to appear before the committee. The minister could not see fit to arrive on committee days or at other times. You wonder, at least. President, whether or not the Minister is avoiding discussing these matters and this matter with members of Congress. I challenge the highest. President to ensure that the health minister will arrive as soon as possible and discuss with the council and the council members the screening and waiting lists under him, this fine minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u52	Madam President. At present, there are 4,000 waiting lists for various procedures. There are 4,000 people who are either at home or somewhere else suffering from analgesics, even with life - threatening diseases. The screening for cancer from the cancer community is being broken into the Land Hospital and added to the period between women being diagnosed until they can receive appropriate treatment. In this situation, Madam President, it is most intolerable that a health minister should get away with being out of this situation and not explain why the available options in the country to shorten the list of requests are not used because those who can give the service are not politically colored. That's annoying, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u53	Madam President. I'm glad to have a chance to have a place of words at the highest level. Minister of Justice on police unions. Policemen are part of our forward forces in the viral epidemic. If someone had doubted that this was so, we were certainly reminded before the weekend when a number of policemen were under siege for involvement with infected offenders who came to the country and apparently ignored all commands of infection. It has been shown that at least One of the officers has been infected by this interference. The police are still under siege. Madam President. We have new times in many sense as to crime and challenges that must be faced by the law. It's not just because Iceland's population has become a tourist country in the last few years, with the trend that here not only some groups of special tourists come to look at interesting soils, but Iceland has been discovered in recent years as unscrupulous and exciting land, and here come millions of tourists every year. Further, the police class's challenges have increased because crime, as it were, has continued to develop and, as it were, has continued to be restored by the Internet, as well as by the growth of organized crime groups over the past few years and has already been seen by the state police analysts'analysis of an opportunity, as it were, to this country. In the same time as pressures, in the way I have described, the police have increased nothing further than the number of years and decades, while reports and reports have shown that there is a great and persistent need for large numbers in the police department. Many have been called for, but little happens. Policemen believe that they have fallen back from similar casts and are struggling with the State for a new agreement, but they do not have a success or drive them into business. Officers have been out of contracts for another year. In the public field, police officials often mention the need for the cast to restore the strike right to correct their terms. For the second time, I proposed that police officers restore their 1986 strike rights. So I have these questions to the highest level. Minister of Justice: What's the minister's position on police strike rights? If they exist, what evidence is there that a minister is aware that police officers do not live under a strike -- as happens in most other professions?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for this discussion, agree with him that the diversity of the work has likely been greater, and new challenges are many. But I'm going to correct a problem right away. Because because of these new challenges, many other police experts carried out their former duties, a senator regarding the growth of police officers. It is noted that the police office in the capital area operates, for example. 100 individuals on a number of projects previously carried out by police officers, e.g. Because of organized crime, Internet crime, money fraud, sexual crime, and so forth. There are no police, so these numbers don't include them. It's like comparing apples with oranges. About the strike rights, as a boy. A senator makes the subject as discussed in Article 31. Police law that police officers must not strike or participate in a strike. Like what? This was added to the law in 1986 by a senator, but the restrictions were limited to police work. The 1996 total review of the directive was then unchanged. It was then thought that there was a clear argument, since police activity was one of the main premises of organized and legal society and police strikers were considered to be incompatible with the role of the police. When discussing the strike rights of police officers, it must be in mind how important their work is, but under law it is intended to protect public security, maintain law and order, seek to secure the security of the citizens, and protect the right of property, public interests, and any legitimate activity. They are also aimed at preventing crime and preventing activities that disrupt the security of the cities and the state, working to expose offenses, stopping illegal behavior, etc. This, as soon as people look at these factors, shows that 1986 has been considered to be a valid argument to eliminate the strike rights in government contracts with police officers. In particular, their work for law and justice and the national public security was seen. Instead of reprisals, officers agreed to get insurance. In fact, the fact is that by 1986 the right to strike the police was very limited and must be included in the discussion that, of course, it was devoted to the nature of their work. In fact, in the case of no particular trace, the situation is that for formal cutting - off, he was more in word than on the table, and instead, police officers were to be assured that their reward development would be in line with the rise that other Kingdom workers received in their contracts. In the present negotiation, the issue is about this very point. The Treaty Committee believes that they have offered the same pay raise as other government employees and that the overall interest of the biographer agreement is also being seen. I've watched the discussion and encouraged negotiations, and hopefully we'll reach a country under the direction of state lines. There's been a lot to meet with police officers, as was evidently seen last weekend when a police officer was infected by Covid-19 in the line of duty. I've considered the conclusions the National Association of Officers has brought on the strike rights and they think they've fallen back from the caste. This, of course, needs to be examined at the table of negotiations. But it is clear that police are doing a very important national and national security job, and the particular situation regarding the strike is the nature of the situation based on emergency and security services. There is also a law on the National Guard that employees who carry out police work must not strike or participate in a strike. But in the current legal sense, only police officers who then have police authority and that the central role of the police is to uphold law and order, i.e. An organized and legal society. If police officers were to perform a strike in a conflict with that law, it would have to be viewed as incompatible with the role of the police. I strongly encourage negotiations and have good relations with the Police National Association, as well as other police officers and police officers. I specifically discussed the contracts at the police council earlier this week with all the governor of the country. It is quite clear, and I agree, that the class has been a leading class in this particular Covid state. She's been through a lot, and it's important to make a deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u55	Madam President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason very much for this inquiry, which is very important. I'd like to go on a little lateral tour of this inquiry and wonder that question up to the highest level. The Minister of Justice, whether or not the officers who have had to be in a district for their work because they associated with infected individuals, will be allowed to keep their watch fees in this month. I'd like to ask the highest, too. The Ministry of Justice for the reasons why the greater part refused to be paid under pressure, such as the head of the medical profession for the sake of Covid, is undeniably unmistakably that police officers are a leading class. And there is, of course, the lack of a 15 - month contract that does not have the right to strike. [[The president calls.]] That, of course, is a disgrace. [[The president calls.]] It is a disgrace to the government to handle these matters so badly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u56	A respectable president. Thank you for this very important discussion. It is true, as we have repeatedly observed, that the police are doing important jobs, and especially in emergency and security services. It is also possible that police officials are also registered by law and so on. The importance of police work is obvious, so it may be understandable that they do not have the right to strike. But it must be seen elsewhere, as in the pay layer, what responsibility is, and what is important, and so on. That's the problem here. That's the big problem. Instead of the strike right, they received another law, it has been two regulations, but somehow the government commission has always been successful in destroying that law. The pay insurance that was to be replaced when the strike court went out has been ignored all along by governments. There are many examples of this, and it must be done so that it can go on so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u57	Madam President. Thank you for your good and important discussion. As noted, 15 months have been off contract by police, but the situation is really much more serious, since it has not been properly negotiated with police since 2005, if I recall correctly. It's just been an extension and an extension from that time. The contract has not been recorded for a longer period of time, which is serious. The lack of strike rights is certainly a confirmation of the importance of this class, and it should be treated in this way. Its importance must be acknowledged, and it is no less important to raise the basic wage and note similar classes, such as medical or nurse or nurse.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u58	Madam President. The large, large, important class of public employees has their language in disrepute and has been so long. That's true of police officers and police women - I want to use the word "policel " that I find more beautiful. Police officers lost their work rights in 1986, in agreement with the government, and concluded that their terms would be ensured by the criteria of a certain class that have the right to strike, four other classes. Any officer who would like to have confidence that the government was a deal, would have made a gentleman's agreement. Madam President. Officers are the country's highest trust union. They had confidence that the public is worthy of trust, but this has not proved to be the case. I'm going to ask the highest. Minister of Justice: much of the highest. A minister of justice will take advantage of their rights and the limitations of their environment? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They've fallen behind in their polls. [[The president calls.]] Will they be corrected, but will they not just follow through? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u59	The President reminds us of the time limit, but it's one minute for other members of the council to participate in this question period.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u60	Madam President. Police officers risk their lives and health for the rest of us every day. That is what they did during the siege of this house a few years ago. Now they do this by associating with people they don't know who is infected with the virus that is still going on in Iceland. They persevere and risk their lives and health for the rest of us. Under these circumstances, the attitude of what they have faced, in negotiations with the State's salary and terms, has been almost hostile. They are offered the same contract over and over again, which they have repeatedly rejected. I have to encourage the highest. A minister to dissuade this dispute and to see that it is resolved. Policemen have a very difficult task to do for the next year because of the situation in the country, and it's intolerable that they stand at the same time in a fight with the state do not have the right to strike. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u61	V.E.G. President. We're gonna discuss a class that gave up a strike trial for about a year ago. 35 years. This was to ensure that the officers were given comparable qualifications as those of other groups, but they have not yet followed. According to the minister, if they were to sit down, the situation will be discussed at the bargaining table. Calculations show that police have been left behind, and they need to be corrected. This issue is not a matter of conversation between the Independence Party. The terms need to be corrected. The Independence Party has conducted the Ministry of Justice and finance almost all this time from the fact that police gave their right to strike. The independent party is responsible that this class has fallen behind as we have seen every year, according to their requirements. Police have been out of contract for 15 months, as mentioned here. We must insist that the group that is the most responsible for this class corrects this class.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u62	A respectable president. As far as I can see, police officers have already been waiting for the pay period they negotiated in 1986 to cut down the strike rights. The fact that it is absolutely unacceptable to restore that strike rights is the same fact that should show the authorities that these jobs need to be well paid. It's not just about cops' purses. It is also about the role of the police in each community. It is an institution, or institution, capable of exercising physical authority. How important it is that people who do such work experience respect for their work! It is very important that this work is desirable. It involves not only the rights of police officers but also the legal rights of the citizens. It is the authority's responsibility to correct the situation, and I find it sad that despite the repeated discussions here, there is no evidence of the will of the Independence Party to fulfill a promise made by 1986. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u63	Madam President. I think it's interesting that we're here to discuss police strike rights. Whether this class should usually have that right can be reasoned in both directions. But the answer to why the police do not have a strike -- is simply that society does not tolerate one day that this class is not working. That's the importance of the job. I feel that there's a strong, firm portrait of the party when we're about to talk about the strike rights. We shouldn't have to be discussing it if there was a turning point and if respect reflected in the interview and if the elected police were in harmony with its significance for society. We know the language on the front line, we know the language's responsibility, and all of this. How uncomfortable it is for us to be at the point where we are discussing the strike rights, which, of course, is no more than an image of how bad police and their choice have been! [[The president calls.]] [[Take the front, hear.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u64	Madam President. First, I'd like to thank all the members of this council. Clearly, there is a great sense of unity and loneliness among members of Congress to stand up with police officers, like one o'clock. A senator put it so pleasant earlier. Police officials say that treaties are on the verge that the State is struggling to complete some form of stress that has been established in previous agreements and that it was not as prescribed. Madam President. In the fall of that year, for the second time, I proposed that police officers regain their 1986 strike rights against their firmness of pay under the pay of certain caste classes. Police officials believe all the grounds for this were broken shortly after 1986. V.E.G. A minister here considered the importance of police work, and of course I agree with it, as I did in my first speech. But she did not answer the question about whether she was favoring police officers to return the strike. No one is talking about putting down all the officers on the day that a strike would be announced. It's not. Of course, we'd be very safe. But this weapon, the strike trial, is essential. Over the last 35 years, this weapon has proved to be essential to this class in order to correct its terms. I am also pleased to mention the bill presented seven or eight years ago, that there were some members of the Independence Party and the modern left greener people in favor of it. So it's only natural for me to ask the highest question. Minister of the Independence Party... what his position now is... to the strike rights of police officers. Interestingly, this is the case with a class of police officers when the Independence Party is at government, a class that teaches itself on rule, security, and justice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u65	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by saying thank you. A senator for this important discussion, and it may be the strike trial. I know this inquiry and prime question what. The senator hasn't just arrived, have he? A senator has given this much thought and suggested, and it is probably a matter of discussion. This does not change, however, that we all understand it, and it was clearly evident in this discussion, what the importance of the work is, and that it might be remedied that police officers have the right to strike because of the extraordinary importance they have in the community. But I'm sure that's what you're talking about. For one thing, I believe that it is important to negotiate with police officers and to get the same amount of pay as the insurance offered and to be offered instead of the strike rights. Hv. A senator himself came to see that all he could do was be stress payment that would work together, so I have high hopes that it is the only thing that remains. This gives us some hope that treaties can be arranged for this important class, and all of us agree on how important it is. Like what? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson came upon those who were respected for their work, and we see it with the confidence shown by the police. Not by default. This is because police officers in Iceland are eager to do their work and generally with great zeal and moderation, and this shows itself in the great trust that the police have in Icelandic society. I've begun to view it as mental. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir came in with the economist shift payment and I'll agree that this has to be checked. Of course, police officials are deeply disturbed by the need to get under control for so long after being in contact with people infected with Covid.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u66	Madam President. I think it would be right to do so here in the light of a discussion that took place before this point. A health minister has a perfectly natural and legitimate reason not to be with us today and to follow it and all her best wishes. But that doesn't change, for if it's the best, it's not good. A minister spends weeks setting up a health committee, as she has recently done. That's not good. But I want to reiterate, and I believe it to be true, that today the minister has a perfect reason not to be here, just to make it clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u67	Madam President. I've sent a written query to all the highest levels. Minister of the government earlier this winter and asked about working on a groundwork strategy. It requires that 5% of advertised jobs be free of location by the end of 2021 and 10% by the end of 2024. That certainly is a worthwhile goal and important goal, Madam President. Despite still having answers from five the highest. counsellors I decided that there was enough material to start a verbal follow-up with these inquiries, and then this follow-up will be completed in the fall of public assembly. I admit to answering the highest. The Minister of Justice to my previous inquiry caused me some disappointment, but according to the Ministry of Justice, I have not been employed outside the capital area. However, it can be said that projects have been brought outside the capital area, but unfortunately they are neither listed nor given up, making it difficult to understand its scope. Similarly, the Ministry has not developed a plan to meet this earlier requirement based on plan. There is also the long concern that, for example, has been observed. Police officers are under-established, and even cases show that a handful of policemen are responsible for monitoring large territories. In this context, I have to reiterate that it is long time to make a deal with a policeman, as we talked about before and I challenge him to the highest degree. Minister to make a practice of doing so. Madam President. The fact is, everything has to be worked together. The strong capital city serves a strong area, a strong region, and other strong structures serve a strong capital city. Thus, the obvious imbalance in position of public activity is so serious. I've mentioned in the past that we may need to do something about it. to pick up based glasses, as if we were talking about nightglasses, and to wonder if the rule should be that when a job advertised a particular reason why a particular job should be located in Reykjavík rather than anywhere else. If there's something positive that has come out of the Covid epidemic, it's the fact that a lot of people can work anywhere and have big companies like Facebook and Twitter told their employees that they don't have to go back to their office any more than they want. Similar reports on the positive experiences of Icelandic companies have also been heard, and many of them plan to increase their freedoms in terms of the location of their employees. Madam President. If there is ever a chance to take a big step regarding your location, it is now. So I ask the highest. Minister of Justice of the simple question of its policy as to the location of the Ministry and its institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u68	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this important discussion. From the time I arrived in the Ministry, it has been my focus that people have the most choice of where they live and can work in the neighborhood. Of course, the rapid technological changes that have occurred in recent years are crucial, both in order to increase jobs without location and to increase the freedom of people to live where they choose. The opportunity to improve quality of life in the country will be most assured by moving there or by having jobs where people choose to live. As a result, I have been trying to speed up the production of electronic management as much as possible because it saves in terms of taxpayers, and gives the opportunity to increase the number of jobs that are not limited to one place. An electronic service will also open the way for the services to pass by those who are far away from those who need the ministry. We'll see that very clearly in the county settlements. There are an enormous number of opportunities with increased electronic services to carry out assignments anywhere in the country. Although most who attend that service are in the capital area, they can be handled electronically anywhere. I've been working on implementing faster electronic services in that field, and the Covid-19 epidemic has opened the eyes of many to the advantage of telecommunications and accessories and other such, hopefully, to continue. I think that young people can see an opportunity to live in smaller communities where major infrastructures are at hand, not just an opportunity for those who do jobs away from the capital area, but for those who are working all over the world and who can choose a location in Iceland. I stress to increase the freedom of choice to live on the basis of good soil. This is best done in order to create a variety of jobs and a variety of communities in the regions of the country. The Ministry has been working on the necessary releases of e - mails, the declaration of county reviews, and the correction of the registration of demandsors. There are all the items that can be considered elsewhere but in the capital area because they will be fully applied electronically, even though individuals still need to observe and complete matters that do not go through automatically. Under e-mail declarations it may be possible to report documents in a general electronic and automatic way, but a change in action on the synonym will improve the service level and contribute to a safer and consistent treatment. At the same time, it is expected that in time the project will bring substantial economics to the county's bodies, but electronic declarations should be made available in this year. We've been reevaluating work at the county bodies with the goal of moving them into and having other offices do them electronically from their territories. In fact, there are a number of benefits, not just that individuals can apply for a job anywhere in the country, where they choose to live, or in any county office they operate, but that will also help reduce the office that is most during the years, where there are too much waiting and, in fact, completely unacceptable service in so many areas. I have already moved a project to an electronic version of the Regulation from the capital area to the office of the county official in the Western Islands. It is a special project for five years, leading to more standards at the county office in the island. That's what I intend to do about other projects that will be fully electronic and will be able to care for in many countries. This will increase the freedom of choice for those who apply for positions. We are evaluating the foundation of the county service on the basis of a complete assessment, finding opportunities to strengthen our office, and at the same time improve the ministry, increasing the quality of our ministry. Also, there are some changes in digital services, but most of all, I have put emphasis on following these assignments. I believe that focusing on electronic services helps to increase the number of jobs without location as well as the entry into some assignment that can be done anywhere in the country other than where there is much request for the ministry, and there is a great advantage in increasing the cost of Kingdom operations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u69	Madam President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flandish the Elíasdóttir of Elias for starting this timely discussion. There is constant need to push on this point. And I thank you very much. Minister for giving any clear answers about this and the Ministry policy. I was at Beach for the last weekend, where I spoke to a national scholar who works there. It has a whole area of the university, National Institutes, National Institutes of Research, Iceland's University, with two nationalists. It's going very well, and technically, there's nothing to stop the job from working well. They do academic work on the spot and university if that's the case. V.E.G. Minister only addressed e-mails. Is the policy of the Ministers who say that there is more and less e - mails moving across the country, perhaps to a businessman who can take good care of it? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u70	Madam President. Earlier in the winter, I made a conquistador proposal to collect information on the distribution of the work. This proposal includes members of all categories, as well as non - party senators. The proposal involves making Hagast Iceland's Habitats able to collect data on land distribution because, when it comes to such data, we are standing fast in comparison with other countries. There is a considerable demand for such data from professionals and stakeholders to provide very positive comments on the subject. In addition to the importance of such information in the development of transport edification, it is relevant when it comes to research, labour market research, and other community research if the objective of the discussion is set. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Frisbjörg, the daughter of Elíasdóttir, and the best answers. Minister of Justice. I'd like to use this opportunity to encourage the success of this case. The key to achieving the goals set out here must be that we know what we really are talking about, how the work is spreading, and how they hang out with people who live and expect to live. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u71	A respectable president. I welcome this important discussion and a good vision to the highest degree. A minister who has shown by his actions that jobs can be moved to and redesign the projects. I come up here mainly to stress that there are two reasons I support the distribution of jobs throughout the country. This is mainly due to the treatment of public funds, since most housing and staff costs are less and more afforded to the staff and to the staff department and to the far less expensive for the country. And most often, the smaller the structure, the lower the intermediate cost of operating becomes. That's what I wanted to keep in mind. Then, it is also the based view. Exploitors are e.g. one direct relationship between government in each community. Therefore, it is important that all over the country be powerful organizations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u72	Madam President. I want to thank you for this discussion. I'd also like to agree with the highest. A minister when she mentioned that moving to the country is in progress, and that has actually been a long time. For decades, the region has been able to live by watching a steady stream of people in the capital area. Of course, it is primarily because of employment opportunities found here in the capital area. They have such an attraction that everyone wants to come here. These things should not be discussed as jobs in the country should be of some kind of alabaster. I'm warning you that this is the subject of discussion. I think the Internet and new employment opportunities have to be viewed as an opportunity and would like to point out an idea of moving agencies and Ministry. [[The president calls.]] Now is the time to move some of them to shore because telecommunications and computing are easier now. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's supposed to work in both directions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u73	V.E.G. President. I celebrate this discussion here today, as others have done. I felt that there was reason to come up here when I heard the locals committees as an example where their situation and access to them is often devoid of them in the country. I'd also like to mention the resignation of an assistant toll manager at Seysendir. I think it's the big thing that's going on in the Northeast, and I have to stop by all means. Then the taxes and customs are united and are looking for a new home. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister may not now be wise to distribute that activity around the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u74	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and the what. Congress members who shared in this good and important discussion in my opinion. Of course, I'm glad to hear it. Ministers here speak of increased electronic administrations and see the opportunities in it. In the Covid epidemic, it was so clear that suddenly the most amazing things and the most incredible meetings would take place through the Internet. I think it is absolutely necessary to follow that experience and use it to build for the future and start thinking things a little different. I also rejoice as the highest. Minister said to make better use of the county office, using the HR. He is all over the country, and he has enough power to carry out all kinds of projects. There's more opportunities, but they'll disappear if we don't grab them, and I'll challenge them. Minister to work on that. As I said in my first speech, there are tremendous opportunities in the strength of the country, and I think strong capital areas and strong settlements are the real key to developing a balance in the country. We should not be setting them up as contrasts, nor should we refer to jobs, whether in the capital area or in the country region, as some of them. Madam President. Finally, I wanted to thank you again for the discussion but also to a lesser extent. The minister is still in the Ministry's inquiry about the possible transfer of the police's research facility to Akureyri, and I look forward to getting the answer to that inquiry as well. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u75	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this good discussion. It is vital that this primarily involves increasing the amount of electronic services. It will improve the service and the handling of public funds, but my vision of the county office is also that they are a powerful office in their area, where, no matter what persons are looking for, wherever they have a legal home so that they can consult the nearest district office and receive their contributions, no matter what their case. It may then be sent to the bank anywhere in the country where there is an electronic service. I think that there is a golden opportunity because there is not only more jobs without location but also mainly improved service and not just a whole country; it would also bring great relief to the office in the capital area where waiting time and other matters could be shortened in the various areas below. I've been asked specific questions about action. I've had a special effort to speed up that process, but I've been able to get it started and end up doing a lot of technical things, so it all works out. But I'm interested in examining each other's office, but in the capital area, e-mails could be fully accepted. Tolla languages are then heard under the secretary of finance, but I reiterate this vision of the entire county office and agree with it. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson, of course, that there is also a clear diagnosis and that is an analysis that I'm doing specifically at the county settlements, where you can strengthen, make better use of, make better use of people, and then advertise jobs without location.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u76	Madam President. I'm glad to have a chance to have a conversation with the highest level. Environment and resource minister for a peace-installed region. Earlier this winter, I found answers to some of the questions I asked the highest. Minister on a similar subject, 373th matter. I asked them which is a peace - related territory in the country, what are the intentions of peace descriptions, and in what case a declaration of peace was lifted. It caught my attention, so as to mention, that the last question was answered so that there was a very low level that peace would ever be lifted. It was also shown in response to the minister that there are many plans on the table of Ministers to appease territories and other things, and I thank you for the answers received by the inquiry and were next thorough. I'm just going to go into the minister's answers on which areas were in the process and on what basis was the plan to express them before I come to the questions that I asked for some time ago. The base contains e.g. Refer to the Government's Government Treaty to achieve the creation of a national park in the central area, and special emphasis should be placed on a code-of-Second Enforcement Guidelines as well as reservations in accordance with the nature protection programme. I wish I had time to cross the national park and peace descriptions according to the circle of the reservation. I'll start at the highland park. The center of the highlands can be described as a national park, but it is expected to be a minimum of national boundaries within the central highland line. For the purpose of the national peace descriptions, see the report of a committee that prepared it. V.E.G. In the fall of this year, a minister assumes to provide a bill for the establishment of a highland park which is authorized to describe his peace. But like the highest. A minister is aware of the proved to be quite opposed to these ideas, including in the countryside and in the areas in the country. That's where we even came from. to the point that opposers considered the experience of Lakeh earth to be less than enough, and not so good that it was justified to expand so vigorously as ministers are in the middle of a highland park. I'm not going to read all my questions to the highest level. A minister, but specifically reiterate the question of how it might be suitable and whether the Ministry considered the removal of a peace report in some cases, whether it is more trustworthy in some case to build up a situation and protect sensitive natural environment in the peace-lit areas. And if so, where is the minister's opinion that this is the best option. Madam President. I know an example of how the people and landowners think they are.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u77	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator's inquiry. Regarding the first question, in fact, the very nature of the peace - informed territory and the peace - filled category is about how much structure is actually needed to take place in the area. The laws of nature include individual categories of peace - informed areas. For example, nature is the area for which there is reason to preserve because of the theoretical value, beauty, or distinctiveness. An example of such is the geography of the Hawkard area, which was declared peacefully as a natural virus yesterday. It's, for example. One of our most widespread tourist attractions, and therefore urgent, that the natural value of the region is not being introduced, to ensure that the area is built into structures that can receive the number of tourists who come around the world. Security, bioavailability, and guest experience need to be considered. This does not always apply to all living things, so there are differences within the categories. Another example of a peace-making party is national parks, all of which are poorly touched and contain specific or typical forms of life, land and/or landscapes. The laws of nature say that public access to national parks for outdoors should be guaranteed so that people can have an opportunity to learn about nature and the history of the region. In order to meet these requirements, it is often necessary to engage in structure, but it must always take into account the objectives of the Declaration of Peace and be at peace with nature. The UN is still another category of peace descriptions. It is a large region where there is little or no sign of man and nature to develop without stress from human activities. The protocol of such a region should be aimed at preserving its symptoms, e.g. to maintain a wide variety of unusual landscapes, widesights, or to protect a whole, vast ecosystem and ensure that living and future generations can enjoy it without manpower interference or traffic control. The high structure of the region of this class is therefore limited by e.g. is not likely. Thus, there are a wide variety of structures in which to build up and how to build up. Then I turn to a different question. A senator asking about the government's standards of interaction between nature and human activities when a position is based on peace - related areas. A targeted national structure program for the protection of nature and cultural memories of 2018-2029 adopted by the Council two years ago is the guidance device we support in these materials. This strategy provides goals for management and sustainable development, protection of nature and cultural memory, security, organization, design, and tourism. As we evaluate the need for infrastructure in a designated location, we must look to the common possession, regulations, and material infrastructure. The cost of construction, business, and maintenance of long - term material infrastructure will be considered in needed analysis. Material structures should not be viewed as the first possible reaction to increased pressures on nature due to the increased number of tourists. The necessary constructions of peace-created areas should be well designed. They are meant to fit in on landscapes, to like the parts, to value local and local values, and to support the success of the visitors. A good supply and a small need for maintenance should be characterised by such structures, and the national aspect should be spent at its highest level. Third, the senator asks about the removal of peace statements and whether landowners are more trustworthy in building a facility and protecting the peace - declared territory. Local peacefulness is based on their protection values, i.e. The nature mines themselves. The protection laws of nature say that removal of peace can occur if the protection values of the memory or region have been lost or if there is a great need for community interests. According to the provisional regulations of the law, subsequent episodes should reevaluate the protection value of the known nature calendars. That assessment is held at Iceland's Natural Science Institute and the Environment Agency. It also includes where it would be best to classify the respective areas of the peace categories and other aspects of the field. As to whether landowners are more trustworthy in building a facility and protecting the peace-lit territory, I would like to say that many areas, especially in the edge of the peace-lit areas, can be called the Gestapo as an example, have been built up by landowners of great worth. Such structure serves the protective objectives of the area where, for example, it is not necessarily suitable to build a toilet or a guest room in the area itself. However, in most of the peace - related areas, the official land owner and the national development programme, which I covered earlier, was a turning point in the government's ability as a landowner for building up a film. We have done well and, of course, can do even more, and we are going to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u78	A respectable president. Thank you for your important and effective discussion. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that often the structure of sites of peace is enormously important to protect natural values, to ensure the security of those passing the area, and to their experiences. It's very important. It is often called for a description of peace in certain areas for attention so that projects can be called for and addressed. I would also like to express my concern about the fact that locals, rural communities, members of society, and even private people call after being built up in peaceful areas, have had a career in organizing and other activities, but they can't. The reason can either be found at a Organizational Institute or in the absence of distribution from the Inn Fund. That's not good enough. [[The president calls.]] In this regard, I want to mention two areas, the pools of the United States and Whoville.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u79	V.E.G. President. I appreciate this discussion, and I want to express my heartfelt appreciation for what is said. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur the Year's Árnason. I'd like to come on a few things, first of all, that the minister might explain to us better in his final words what he meant by the words ▪ chemical innuendo doesn't make the first response a bit more clear to us. I think the Minister was answering something in another question. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason. Then I'd like to step in, not necessarily in the edge of a peace-lit region, but within them, to add to the experience and satisfaction of those who want to examine these areas, as well as that of a quirk. paritaprevir Will Árnason pointed out. I'd also like to promote that it may be a better option for landowners to be hiding a bigger role than the fact that the state is in this mess. Let us not forget that Iceland's farmers are citizens of the country and have actually contributed to the most important means of protecting, building up, and peaceing the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u80	Madam President. Thank you very much. A minister for an excellent answer to a question I asked him, and I also thank members of the council who have spoken up to this team. I believe that when we talk about forms of peace, it must be behind them that areas can be protected and dangerously accessible by tourists. If that power is not available, landowners often have a better level of structure and security, and there are many fine examples of ambitious and interesting structure on the side of owned areas. Madam President. Peace details must not go to extremes, especially if there is no desire, can or is interested in building up and ensuring access to tourists and others. In other words, the territory must not be a disgrace. And there are cases of a very large waste layer in public areas. We must have that power. That's why I ask about the peace-declared areas, that this will not go to extremes, that people may not go too far ahead, that everything they see will be followed and then little or nothing, especially when we look at the tremendous flow of tourists that has been here for a short time and will likely continue. Then it is very important to protect the country, and I recommend the involvement of the state and the private property of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u81	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. Councilmen for this fine discussion. To answer what is meant by not necessarily the first reaction, this means that land prices often come instead of being attacked in a vast structure, especially in the first place. Because they work in these peace - related areas and direct people to specific places, rather than to others, and by upholding the education done in these areas, the need to enter animal infrastructure is reduced. The key elements are that in the national parks we work for employment policies, management and protection programmes whereby we can review the ways in which we should build up wood, where to build up, and where not. And it's very important that we have these controls, both in our national parks and in other peaceful areas, management and protection programmes. This is the plan for how we will do things and hold our precious territory. The schedule I mentioned in my first response is a key step in setting priorities. The current government has put a huge amount of money in these areas. This year, for example, about a billion dollars enter the infrastructure. Since the number of landkeepers has increased throughout the country, the funds go both to areas owned by the State and to the environment of other people's custody. I remind you that a declaration of peace is a marvelous control tool to direct people into places, organize an area where times and seasons have become too intense and thus have organized around these areas so that in the future they can bring the same delight to all and to future generations as they have been to this day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u82	A respectable president. I may not spend much of my limited time reading up these five questions that I raised to the highest degree. Secretary of state. They can be found on a threshing floor. 1449 for the projects of NATO in this country, both the ones standing and the ones that lie ahead. However, the point of the question was reported a few weeks ago that it may be possible to speed up the activities of NATO at Cheflavor Airport and in Helgavík, including civilian projects in an area where unemployment is now 25%. Now I am fully aware that the protection or defence issues do not depend on the amount of unemployment that is occurring at any given time in the South Sea. The other is quite clear, however, that it is equally likely to take into account the situation of employment, especially when it is possible to speed it up by civilian activities already determined. Therefore, I could easily simplify or reduce the number of these five questions to the highest level. Foreign Minister down to one: Is hurrying on these projects possible on the part of NATO, and if so, what stands in the way of an attack?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator of the questions that are both important and timely, and of the importance of Iceland and of the priorities of security and protection in recent years. First, ask: What defense projects are being carried out here in cooperation with the European government at the North Atlantic Community (NAO) and the U.S. government? In general, four categories of projects can be divided: There are expenditures of NATO, productions cost of the Icelandic government, actions cost by the U.S. military authorities, and projects in cooperation with the above. Now there are six approved assignments on the campaign and on the move. I'm going to go through the numbers as they are available right now, but let's keep in mind that it can change with gang changes. So, in the first run, it's a change and a reimbursement of the 831 hangar. It has a total supply of 1.8 billion. That is why the U.S. military authorities carry $1.3 billion, NATO about 200 million. K. and Iceland, 270 million. K. Then there's a building of laundry stations, with a total supply of 613 million. K. funded by the U.S. government. Number three is maintenance and restoration to runways, barns, highways, and photo systems. That's more than 3.1 billion. Because of this, the U.S. military authorities contribute 2 billion dollars. and NATO 1,1 billion K. Fourth, it is the enlargement and construction of the airport and the location of the container. That's up to 8.1 billion. funded by the U.S. military authorities. Fifth, there's an update on radar systems less than 4 billion. Of these, NATO finances an estimated 3.5 billion dollars. The U.S. government has a total of 470 million. K. Then there is a software update of more than 3.8 billion. NATO, which has $3.1 billion. and then there are over 700 million Icelandic authorities. K. of it. Right away. One senator asks: "What projects have been made or may be ahead of us? " No formal decisions have been made on further projects. However, the need for this is considerable. Just to put this in some context, this is 140 monuments, which are both small and large, and many of them are useful, like a whale. A senator came on, for a civil purpose. Once de-registered, they go to the Icelandic state. To put it in some context, some 563 workers were present when the militia went away. First thing. Such issues are always considered and at these times, as they have previously done, for a detailed analysis work on these items. On the other hand, if you find yourself in a situation where decisions or decisions need to be made, it will go through a standard course, as we know.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u84	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this important and excellent discussion. I wanted to emphasize the importance of all these activities to look to the community where they are and to be of the greatest benefit there, the civil use being the most. They try to work with the community as much as we do with Iceland's commitments, the contracts we've made and the duties we have. Some of the projects you have heard of being possible, such as building in Helsinki, would, for example, be possible. reduces the impact of the civil defense work and, if it is shorter between areas where the ships arrive in the country and the safety area, it is also much environmentally friendly. I wanted to establish the importance of society's interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u85	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank for the leader as well as the highest. Minister for the discussion here. If I've managed to write this number right to myself, it's 20 to22 billion dollars. Of this, the United States has about 1.5 billion. I've got all these numbers in advance because I had to write them very fast and badly. What I wonder is really the question. A senator, the founder of the matter, asked a minister: Is it possible to speed up the project? If so, what is preventing them from being hurried? This is a key question. It is very important for the minister to answer that question. If they can be rushed, why not? There is something else I would like to share. Now I don't really know if these projects are part of a bigger plan or a long-term design plan. However, it is clear that this plan must exist, and it is also clear that Icelanders need to realize that we need to strengthen our country's defenses. Sadly, the trend in world affairs is in such a way that we cannot ignore it. And I encourage and support the highest. Minister to make sure the defenses of the country are secure.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u86	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and president, Páll Magnússon, for a very important inquiry as well. Minister for participating in this discussion. In my mind, it is particularly about Iceland's national security policy, which the government has committed to follow up on, as shown in its constitution: The government emphasizes that the national security issues are on a firm hold. Iceland's national security policy, agreed by the General Assembly, will be guided. This, however, is not the government. It is absolutely essential for our cooperation with our alliances in NATO and U.S.A. that the defenders we have committed to us to be all right. It is time for significant maintenance of these acts of men that the Minister has suggested for the attack, but it was rejected. That's a serious thing to me. I must say, Mr. President, I cannot see that the national security issues are in effect when the government rejects a foreign minister's proposal and actually doesn't follow national security policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u87	Mr. President. I'm not going to get involved in this particular thing, but in general, I'd like to say that Iceland as an armyless northern nation is going to be all too eager to increase the tension in our part of the world, and especially in the Arctic, will not lead to a arms race. Today, the world is in a deep shock because of a pandemic crown virus and has a huge project that is more urgent for mankind's future than an increase in the cost of arms use. That's where I'm calling climate issues. I mention the fact that 80 million people on earth are fleeing. Today, 1% of mankind is homeless. Finally, the experience of Southnesia and other settlements in Iceland is by trusting in a foreign army, one of the least of which the employer is the foundation. When the army appeared to him, it left a cremation in wounds, including my old home, when he suddenly disappeared from Mount Heather and laid down the big workplace. This experience still exists in local residents.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u88	President. That is an interesting discussion, and I was happy to hear the highest. A minister declares that further decisions in these areas are natural, such as hope and guidance. Of course, this work is being done that way, although it is trying to blow up some mudwood from the wind. Councilmen of the government. Otherwise, I'm especially happy to hear it. The members of the Central Party specifically call for quick implementation, for money to be put on the job. This afternoon, we will discuss some of the projects that clearly deal with it, speed up road work, road cooperation projects, city lines, and so forth, where funds are just waiting to get to work. I'm counting on it. The members of the Central Party are as eager to get their money to work as they do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u89	Mr. President. As a result of the discussion that has taken place, I would like to say that I find it particularly unpleasant to cover the narrow, secondary benefits as well. Parliaments believe that communities enjoy military construction, where money can be used for all kinds of social infrastructure. There is little or nothing in the world that leads to more waste of lives and material goods and contamination more than armed conflicts. It is, therefore, much closer to spending that money directly into the local wood rather than to taking some mountain back by doing so through military construction. [[The president calls.]] Thank you very much. A minister for the numbers he mentioned because it is good for us to know them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u90	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the members of the council who have spoken here and especially the highest. Secretary of State for detailed answers to the projects currently being carried out in this area. This is not about the increased cost of arms equipment, as was shown in the case of members of Congress earlier. Long - term additions in Helguvík or maintenance of a building at the Cheflavík Airport are not the focus of increased arms expenses. This is about fulfilling the obligation that we have in the defence covenant and because of our participation in NATO, which is again part of Iceland's approved national security policy. It's not about growing military activity in Iceland. It's about whether or not it might be possible to speed it up. In the light of the circumstances in which we live, I specifically stated that the fulfillment of the defense covenant or national security policy would not necessarily take into account the current employment situation in the South. But in the case of projects that are necessary for us to fill the part of the contract that turns us, possibly with the possibility of hurrying, I have no tendency to do so. This is not an increase in military activity or arm expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u91	A respectable president. I want to thank you for both the leader and the leader. Parliamentaries who participated in the discussion. Just so that there's something I'm going over and doing, i.e. the amount as much as any. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson was right, agreed and started. There has been nothing like it during decades of maintenance, far from that. If we think about what our benefits are, he is that we are in the most powerful defense union in the world. If we say that we are not to be there, we need to answer what else we should do instead. Men must answer that question because no nation wants to be defenseless, and I don't know that no nation has its policy, no matter where it is in the world, to be defenseless. Just so it's said, and there's no speciality, there's a lot of these projects - these are some 140 monuments - coming back to civil activities. That seems to be the case, and is, of course, perfectly normal. The national conductor is a projection that was funded by the Atlantic Alliance in his day. We can name harbors, such as Helguvík, and runways, to name something. Even if we are not in this defense work for economic reasons, it is far better that we are going on these projects now, in the position we are, than if there had been a strong swing in the economy. It just tells itself. But the big thing is this: These are monuments like all other monuments; if they are not kept, the need for maintenance is something to be maintained. It's exactly the same with these structures as with everyone else. I trust and believe that we will take a good and perfunctory discussion on these matters, not just now, but as often as we do here in the llium sales.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u92	Mr. President. I thank you for the opportunity to have a place to speak at the highest level. Financial and economic secretary on the status of the households. My first question to the highest. The minister was: How would a minister intend to protect the homes of the people of the country if the index price rose beyond the prices of the Federal Bank? [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] Many today ask themselves about the days when unemployment is at an unprecedented level and there is great uncertainty about job prospects in the months and even years. Homes in the country still have to live up to financial obligations despite the loss of jobs. That's all you can do. Since many believe that one of the largest global crisis has just begun, the government and the general body members must defend their country's homes in order to reduce the damage. We do not want the homes in the country to experience again that the head of their mortgages raise and see behind their savings, which has been placed to buy food overnight. Many fear that the price - secure mortgage will increase as the year passes and realize that if nothing has to be done, the loans will be obtained. In this regard, it is reasonable to ask, Have we learned any lesson from what happened after the 2008 economic collapse? This can be a reminder of the highest response. Minister of Justice asking why. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Isun the son of Izzma of forced sales and bankruptcy, 233th case at the 148th legislature Council. It showed that over the past ten years, 9,195 people's real estates had been sold a forced sale or due to ten years of adaptation after a crash. No doubt, Mr. President, more families have lost their homes by other means that there is no official figure here. Thus, there is a well - known experience of tragic consequences for homes, and today many families in the hands of superheated rent have deteriorated from their own housing. In this regard, you can also ask the highest. Minister if he agrees with the bank manager to ensure that insurance is on the hold because people vote with their feet and take disloyal loans and if the tops. Ministers believe that insurance will be removed from a general loan market because of the housing bar, as can be learned from the words of the bank manager. Other questions I asked were: Does the government have plans to protect homes from this growing burden? In view of experience, does a minister not consider himself reasonable and reasonable that the government will take action to prevent the head of the mortgage and its payments from increasing the prices of the Federal Bank? And I'd like to remind you that in the last 12 months, inflation has been measured 2.6%, but the penitentiary is 2.5%, so it's in dissociative, but we're in this danger, unemployment is still very high, and that's why I'm asking the highest level. Minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u93	A respectable president. I appreciate the opportunity to discuss this matter, which is truly important. Stimulated prices end up one of Iceland's main objectives. As noted, it is defined as 2.5% in 12 months of inflation. Still, natural changes in the economy lead to a fluctuating of the inflation around that goal. It is hard to work to ensure a stable price balance, which leads not only to a rising headstained loans but also to economic costs for the entire community. Similarly, the general reduction in prices is a clear economic sign of weakness. Understandably, Icelanders still fear the inflation. In the past decade or so, however, the battle against inflation has been a remarkable success. Despite some tensions in the economy and a significant decrease in the fall of 2018, inflation since then has continued to be low and stable. The annual rate of inflation over the last seven years is 2.4% and therefore is at the merits of the Federal Bank. Of course, this success in combating inflation is a source of great joy and has led to a great and continuous increase in buying. A decade. Similarly, the reduction in in inflation and belief in the economic policy has enabled the National Bank to reduce growth in an ongoing economic crisis without further falling into danger. While there has been a temporary deterioration in Icelandic housing because of inflation, pay has been five times and real value more than six times as high as 25 years. Five-fold pay, six-fold real estate prices. At the same time, prices have only tripled. Overall, then, the number of households in this quarter century has increased very much. Now, though, it is hard to see that unemployment will continue to grow, and this may be difficult for many homes, such as for children. A senator took steps to live up to his commitments, even without inflation. Business banks have responded to this trend by temporarily offering cryo-conservation of cities to be loaned to individuals affected by the existing circumstances. By the beginning of June, over 3,000 individuals had received such a payment. If we watch less in time, we had inflation since December. and into April 2020, which is now measured, as it is. A senator withdrew from, approximately 2.6%. As was true in the fall of 2018, the decline since February of February has not led to significant removal of inflation. This time, a reduction in oil prices also helps. Neither the harbor bank, other forecasts, or market officials assume that in the coming years, inflation will exceed inflation targets. That's what I think is the main thing. Nobody assumes that inflation will start again. Of course, we should pay close attention, and this is important, such as the dog. A senator is doing here, keeping men on the subject. I must also say that the market for apartment loans has changed dramatically over the past few years. In many cases, growth is now only about 4%, but as a result of the financial crisis, the cost of loans is insured by 56% and is now 2353%. These low interest rates do not result in just a lower pay load. Rather, they lend unscrupulously that possible options for much more homes. Thus, those who wish to avoid potential increases in the head position may borrow indiscriminately. I can't quite answer that question for a second. A senator asks me if my insurance loans are just gonna turn the others aside. I think it's likely that for the most income-employed individuals, the low-paying weight of the loans, which have the equal financial structure, will always be an option that will be looked into. However, the proportion of irresponsible loans has doubled in just three years, and they have now reached 30% of all the mortgages to their homes. I have to say, as it is, you'd hardly have the guts to predict it. This is an amazing change in the housing market. The government will continue to place great emphasis on controlling inflation, and we all share responsibility for its success. A very important feature is to present a trustworthy economic policy to the future that will respond to this new situation. [[The president calls.]] If we fail, it will eventually appear to us in the favor of the currency, which can spread into inflation. But I believe in the project.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u94	Mr. President. What a need for discussion! Last night, during an interview with the People's Festival of July, the bank manager issued a death notice for insurance insurance on the mortgage. In answer to a reporter's question about the fact that in recent years the homes have largely been moving on to an unsecured loan, and whether the bank manager assumes that it is realistic that they will leave the insurance policy, the bank manager answers that the times have changed. For the first time, it is a real option for a home to switch to a name interest, and thus cut off the insurance policy by its own initiative. By permission of presidents, the manager said: "It's a big breakthrough, and it means that your insurance will die out. This means that the home itself will clear out the financial insurance policy with the financial market. But she is not gone. For homes, she has been seriously damaged. It's a scathing dampness. It must be ignored. This includes the need to establish a practical key bill, such as what I have repeatedly provided with support for other attacks. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u95	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for important inquiries as well. Minister for the answers. V.E.G. In his brief speech, a minister attributed it to a successful economic success in recent years, a reference to low inflation, low interest, etc. But now that we are on the move, we stand at a turning point, much uncertainty. Then the government's actions over the virus epidemic are at the top. And how has this been accomplished? Unfortunately, many of them, many of them, have come all too late. I mention, for example. The loans and the support loans. I don't think that support loans are up to date. Many companies are waiting for these options. Behind them are people who have jobs and families. Unemployment is very high at this time, with uncertainty over the autumn of the month, and winter is widespread. [[The president calls.]] At the same time, it is important for companies to take advantage of the resources established by the government, but it has gone way too slow. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u96	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for his answers, and I also thank the introduction of other members of the council in this discussion that I find so urgent. I'll agree with the highest. A minister referring to the need, of course, to stick to the material of these materials, i.e. avoid introduction of inflation. I cut by the highest. One minister commented that no one assumed that the inflation would start. It's good to hear, and that's why I ask back, " If no one assumes why, then why can't you just take it off? ' What misunderstanding have we reached? I also want to reiterate my third question. I ask: Is the government starting to prepare measures, in view of the economic situation in the community and the ahead uncertainty, to stop the trend that could occur if inflation took place with the rise in loans and risks for homes in the country? I realize that such preparation will take some time. That is why I ask: Has the government prepared to act quickly if that happened? I heard an answer. Ministers that there was no threat and that no one assumed that inflation would start. That is why I ask: If it were to happen, are there any procedures ready? Finally, I'd like to mention the key bill and ask if it's the highest. Minister is the sponsor of that bill. Many countries of Europe and some U.S. countries have taken up its resources to protect equality with loan institutions and creditors and to ensure that borrowers can go out of their debt after losing it, after forced sale, or for other reasons, instead of being constantly pursued by organizations. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u97	A respectable president. I'd like to thank you for your fine discussion here at the council Hall on this important matter. I reasoned that markets do not expect inflation or the late bat, and economic forecasts do not provide a high probability of inflation over the next year or even years. That's one of the criteria. In effect, this is a forecast of inflation, and it is no wonder that the question is: Why don't we just remove your credit card? I've put a bill for members of the government, it's passed through the government, is still inside members of Congress, a comparable bill that appeared in the fall of 2016, where we are under a great deal of pressure to 40 years but with conditions. The people we're particularly thinking about when we're blacking out on these Iceland Bars, long-defeated on their credit loans, are those who even have the option to borrow, i.e. Do not pass the burden of payment on other types of loans. In the housing procedures that the government has used and are still under construction - and one bill has recently entered the Parliament on that subject - some form of counterargument is introduced to meet this particular group. The way this plays out depends largely on the interaction between different measures, and it will ultimately determine how far we go in flexing the Iceland loans. I'm sorry, I'm done with my time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u98	V.E.G. President. I am a member of the country, and I am a great member of construction of the country. As a result, in 2017, we are all members of the Central Party and give special attention to this campaign as to how the country could be built. In this regard, I would like to direct questions to the highest level. Minister for public work that could be in the country. It is a pleasure to see that the government is preparing for public employment, and it is a question of where they can be placed, whether the country could be there. There may be a considerable amount of public employment in the country, such as the United States and the United States. Building agency, Homing and Mobilization Institute, Food Institute, National Security, State Department translations, Administrative Ordinary Fund, Labour Office, and so on, well. Public jobs often have to be protected by the local community, and their work disappears to the capital area too often. This is often without warning, causing damage to the local community, since construction must be based primarily on employment, so all ideas of national structure are in my mind very interesting. But the questions I asked are two: 1st How many public jobs have been advertised this year, on the one side of the capital area and on the other on the other side of the country? 2. How does a minister believe the government can work against unemployment in the country after the Covid-19 pandemic? Would it be an option to build new jobs in the country? I would love to hear good answers about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u99	A respectable president. We are here discussing an important part of the government, the development of public employment in the country. I mean, we're supposed to monitor their numbers regularly, their species, where they're coming from, why they come into existence, etc. I'd like to start by saying that in a professional context, if you could put it that way, and then I'm not just referring to public work, we are at a very important milestone. The technical changes that are taking place have been shown, in particular, to be in response to the Covid-19 pandemic, to the point that everything is changing. We have and can use technology to make the function of the official more flexible, just as we see that the job life does. And I mean we're making this up to a point. This is what I think we've all seen and learned, including here at the council. Indeed, it has been that way at my Ministry and in other councils. However, a job vacancy at the institutions of the State is advertised on the Web site a work area. The answer to ask why. Because of the current year's advertisements, a senator aims to publish advertisements. It does not go into operation by local members or other government agencies. So these are the institutions of the state I am specifically reporting, but from the end of the year one 1,009 work has been advertised in a work square, and the ratio is nearly equal to the national capital area, 515 jobs in the capital area, 503 jobs elsewhere. I have hoped that more work opportunities will be around the country soon, especially in the light of what I was doing here, that telecommunications have become more practical and we have new experience with telecommunications of various kinds. Governments have developed practice, even confidence, in planning such a work ethic, and they have successfully succeeded. I believe that such an arrangement will not least be used to people in the country where government jobs are released. I hope I'll only come back to this point later in my answer. It's a question of how the state can work against unemployment. It is clear that in many countries this pandemic has caused a lot of economic losses. However, we have been building a strong financial situation to cope with more difficult times in recent years, and we are now making great use of both money and financial resources, this fine position. There we do to provide the counterweight and shelter for an enterprise and, of course, the homes to protect them from the first economic effects caused by the virus. There may be a need for continued counter measures on the part of the government in the next fall, then I am referring to specific measures, and the next winter, when it becomes more apparent how much of the country's work goes to the courtyards, especially in tourism. The cost of these measures will be greater than we have earlier examples. Most of the cost is to make up for the loss of income for those who have suffered loss or loss of employment wherever they live in the country. Unfortunately, instead of the earlier equilibrium in the national industry, it is seen that one of the greatest productions was created in modern economic history. Its prime presentation is unemployment, which could be more than after the collapse of the banking system in the fall of 2008. This is the economic major subject today. Although the plaque is caused by temporary external trauma, it is expected to affect demand for much longer than this year's end. Thus, in these circumstances, it is very important that at the assemblies and conventions of a global restructuring program, as well as public financial support that will lead to the promotion of economic and commercial growth on a national level, where we will have our eyes primarily at the level of employment. Such policies and planning will play a major role in working out the new financial and financial policies ahead of which I expect to submit to the Council in the fall. I want to close my mind to mention that we have a project that has to do with hiding recruitment and institutions to define and advertise jobs without locations where possible. It aims to provide 5% of all the advertised jobs in councils and organisations without any specific location before the end of the next year and at the end of 2024, the proportion will reach 10%.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u100	Mr. President. It is in the work of every government to create jobs, but in that test the government has failed. Only 5% of her action is now emerging. Unemployment has never been as much as it is about to increase in autumn. Making jobs, including public jobs, is important in such a state. All governments around the world are doing it to deal with the crisis and not here, because the procurator of the Independence Party thinks it's the worst idea he's ever heard, as he put it, when I mentioned this possibility. Increasing the number of public jobs is not only increasing their jobs but also improving our ministry, since there is no need for nurses, policemen, scientists, medical staff, and psychologists, etc. Of course, there is also a need to increase the number of jobs in the private sector, but it is costly, Mr. President, to have a financial minister who cannot see the value of more public jobs. It's a ideological disagreement the Conspiracy is at least not afraid to deal with the Independence Party. [[The president calls.]] It is noteworthy, though, that in the past, the issue of this discussion contains the left - green silence.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u101	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Ministers for these answers and what was presented in his talk. It is a pleasure to know that this work is being done in various ways. I thought of it now as I sat in my seat and was listening to the talk that it has been difficult to get people, especially educated people, to move abroad even if jobs are available, doctors, etc. It is often difficult to arrange for some to move to the country, even though many are willing to do so, especially young people who are starting farming, where they find less expensive ways to buy housing and such. However, the idea has often been raised whether one can have the yellow root that involves paying taxes, some kind of taxic catalyst, for example. In Norway. I'd like to ask the minister here and now how these ideas look at him. It was evident in the minister's speech that he and the government, like all of us, are concerned about the development of events with the Covid standard and how it will turn out professionally. It is vital that we stay on our toes in this relationship and make decisions sooner than later when we face problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-18-119.u102	A respectable president. First, I would like to answer questions about motivations that governments could use. I might say as an answer to the fact that what governments have been doing is making investment agreements. When we consider the main reasons for making such investment agreements, it is often that it is justified in considering the employment situation in the respective areas and that support is a success of the aim of distributing jobs throughout the country and promoting the level of employment. Thus, for example, there are investment agreements, such as the one about a silicar on the Back, the remote wing, and several decades back, back into the Straumsvík. That's the tax incentives the government has particularly seen. I think it is quite timely to ask ourselves, " Am I more likely to consider the possibility of a tax - based impulse on human resources?'And say simply, " We are ready to make coincidences, not only to attract the import of steel and bar iron and machines and tools and tools to produce, but also to get creative, to gain special knowledge to the country. How far would we be willing to go? I've put in charge of the council and had agreed rules that will draw experts to the country with the appeals for income tax, but it's worth considering whether we're going there long enough and whether we should go further. For public jobs, I just have to say that they are not the only solution to the economic crisis. That's what I mean when people come up with it as an answer to the economic situation to just increase the number of government employees. The public activity has enormous value in the community and in all the man - made work there. [[The president calls.]] But there is no solution to the economic crisis, not the signs of the solution, that there is a shortage of public employees. That must have been my point when I and what. paritaprevir Ágústsson Ólafur Águssson has been discussing this.
