ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u1	V.E.G. President. A few days ago, the matter was requested to be taken to a committee between discussions. It was the word, and I am grateful for it today because they had the opportunity to play, for the committee, for the doctors, for health care professionals to review this subject and see how it is grown. It was true to say very ill - mannered or ill - laid, but it's not a bad case, but it's an enormously ill structured case. It says that this bill is about atypical sexual characteristic, so it had been held in earlier discussions that the cases of atypical sexual traits in Iceland were each year 60-870, which is simply wrong. Atypical sexual traits exist in Iceland in one or two cases, as in other cases, where people have found that this particular condition occurs in one case of 4,000 babies. And it just so happens in Iceland was born about Four thousand children a year, so we are talking about the birth of one or two children each year with these traits. It also explained that since correction has been required, or if correction has been performed by surgery, such measures will be performed in Iceland every few years because the cases are available. What's wrong with this bill, however, is being pulled down are creation defects that have nothing to do with gender symptoms, sexual orientation, or sexual awareness. That's when I'm talking about a short urethral. Then I'm talking about testicles that don't come down. Then I'm talking about a split penis, or what has been called a micropenis, or a short penis, that needs to be addressed by action, and a narrow foreskin. These are not atypical sexual traits. By drawing these events into this bill, both babies born with them and the parents of the children who want to work on these problems or situations are getting involved. These things are being complicated. You don't have to get these things involved. Fortunately, Iceland's Medical Association, which approved the bill, requested that there be an exception or such, because it is said that measures will not take place until the child is completely disabled. Happily, they were given room for it - to consider the cases I have been traced down here and not to atypical gender characteristics. Don't. These are physical defects that must be fixed and corrected in the early years of a child. The exception this is given will last for some time. But it may tell you a story when doctors who came before the committee and gave a review were very cautious and polite in their reviews and when they showed up for the committee, which I am forever grateful to have done, that it also stood out of men what might be best for this bill; it would be a law in the bill to review it within three years. So much faith in this bill. That's what got out of the way. That was the best part. First of all, it's a bill here on social grounds, not medical. I say again, Mr. President, there is a tendency to be intruding into this bill of symptoms that I trace, which are physical and/or in the way that they need to be corrected as soon as possible. On the one hand, it encouraged the Middle Class and me to act, and trust in parents is in absolute minimum in this bill. This is minimized in our view, and that is why we make adjustments that I shall explain afterward. But the main point is, and in fact, the reason to postpone this case is that it needs to be unwinded. In this matter, there are things that are not atypical sexual traits. I say again, Mr President, why should we complicate the lives of those born with a short urethral, a split penis or testicles that don't come down? Why should we complicate the lives of such ones by wearing some law-enforcement code and by making people uncertain about what needs to be done and what can be done? That's not good. To be honest, Mr President, it's something very bad. Therefore, I must protest what was said on several committee meetings. There were men in long banshees and they drew butterflies on the wall; it would be such a great deal, it would be so beautiful, and it would be so well done, and it would have been so good, and there would have been so many experts. Fortunately, two doctors came to the deal of this bill and were able to save the bill from the worst of all the trouble I've ever listed here. But I say again, with great respect, that the situation of others involved in this case was a social organization and an amateur organization referred to here as experts. I'll tell you honestly, Mr President, I have no idea what these people are experts in. I'm not a lawyer, Mr. President, I'm not a lawyer, but I don't see in this text that he's made up of lawyers. I say again, putting it this way on a social basis instead of a medical one is completely hidden from me. Absolutely covered. That the Allied Council of Iceland will invite parents and children born with defects that need to be corrected at once to bring this situation into the process - and I am not minimizing atypical sexual traits, Mr. President, absolutely not. But one to two incidents a year -- having to do with some 50 who have a completely different symptom, a whole different nature, that needs to be corrected on a whole different basis, to do the whole other thing, because it's almost rude, Mr. President. In this matter, just as in other matters, where health defects or health problems arise, what is our first thought? Yes, it is allowing people to either work on this health problem, help people to live with it, make life easier, and easier to understand. But I'm sorry, it's not done on this bill, and it grieves me. That is why I would have suggested that the release of this case be postponed. It would just be replaced, divided into two parts, i.e. that the second bill was about atypical sexual characteristics, but the second bill discussed the physical and health problems brought into this bill. The main focus of the bill here is that those born with atypical sexual symptoms - that they do nothing until a child is older than 15 - years old - are children up to 18 in Iceland - and to deal with that problem need to be activated by two experts, and parents should not have anything to say about it. That's why, Mr. President, we're going to make the following adjustments to the Middle Class, or Central Class. With President's permission, I'd like to read it. It's like this: 4 mgr. Section 4. Enter a new paragraph, as follows: For 2 mg. if a child under the age of 12 is prescient to make a decision for permanent changes in the child's urinary and/or genital system if an appropriate specialist assessment has been made that surgery or other treatments have failed to improve the quality of life of the child. And 2. par.: ▪ Instead of the reference '-6.5. mg/m2 a.m. 2 mg. 1 1. Come on: 6 mg That's where we'll try, minimum effort, to fix this bad thing. Now I pray that members of Congress look at this matter again, think about it, pay attention to it, and ask themselves if it is worth talking about things that have nothing to do with non-typical sexual traits into this bill and making life more difficult for them and for them to live. If it were to be done, Mr. President, and if it were to be done with what I said before, that this case would not be over, but would be taken from here, so done, so it would be a really good message. But to throw to hand as this is done, Mr. President - this council has been under oath for years. Let us not make it a matter of order. Let us try to make an exception to the fact that this is the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u2	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, however, whether he distinguishes health problems from social problems or if he puts them all in the same package. The reason I ask is that we live in a community that is sometimes judgmental, especially when we are children. There are all kinds of physical or spiritual traits that people may have, or they may have, some form of social damage. It is basically a problem other than a health problem. It is not a health problem to have symptoms that you have. The war is the problem there. And when it comes to atypical sexual traits that can cause social problems, I view the underlying problem completely different from the eyes, but if it was some physical problem that makes it difficult for the person to have a healthy life, for example, or is a health problem in that classical sense. The reason I'm asking about this is because when I read the subject in the bill or the committee, it's a fitting description. The senator simply did not use what I read. The bill allows measures that are needed for health reasons. This, however, precludes actions that are merely for the sake of some social or social expectations, which is just another matter. It is the fact that this is another aspect of the bill. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator: Does he distinguish between health issues and social causes?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u3	Mr. President. I can't really thank you. A senator more for this answer than I'm going to do right now. I know that I'm in the chest right now. A senator fights a warm, big heart. In the counter, there was a bang. In fact, a member of Congress in itself describes some of the reasons why we middle - class people take this matter as seriously as they do, stressing that children get their own maladies or ills as soon as possible. Yes, that's why, Mr. President, we say, these are two problems handled on this bill. Like what? A senator so judgelessly quoted the bill, it is lawful to perform action that should be handled as quickly as possible. That's exactly what we've been stressing, that a child, in this case, is a boy, which has, for example, a child. Split penis - if it is not corrected and it needs to be carried forward after years, apart from the fact that it is very difficult to fix later - that is exactly to prevent war, harassment, prevent feelings of distress, prevent confidence that people would not be able to go for swimming lessons or things like that, to avoid feeling comfortable with people. That's exactly what we're talking about. That's why I say, this bill here is built on social grounds. Therefore, the medical item should be divided into a complete stream of detail.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u4	A respectable president. I'm going to start by just reading out of the report, I'm going to try to do it quickly. It's at 4. The bill. It says, by permission of the president: 2 mg/m2. Social, psychological, and physical reasons are not considered for the health reasons that justify permanent changes in the child's sexual characteristics without its consent. Appearances are the viewpoint... [A Vice President stumbles on his way out of the chair.] It was just... All right? A respectable president. There's always something happening in a punk that bothers you when you're giving talks about serious things. I'm just gonna have to back up, Mr. Honorable President. It says, by permission of the President: For social reasons, there are accepted ideas about the sexual characteristics of the sex to be meant to be either female or male. Psychological reasons involve a psychological interaction with certain mental and emotional concepts. Quotation complete. And then there's a very detailed discussion on this. Now I find it boring to take my personal experience with my life here at the Hall because when it is done, the conversations sometimes get a little boring. But I have to, because I had a very severe childhood bullying, a lot of stuff, and I got left out. I didn't have the courage to go swimming. I dared, for example. not attending sports because someone would somehow humiliate me in one way or another. So I know that problem from my own experience. It's shaped my soul since then, there's probably nothing that has shaped my attitude toward social factors more than this, so I know exactly what I'm talking about and don't accept sermons about it. When I'm told that people, the person, should be changed to deal with the violence that that that person is going to have for them, I feel that we are going to be giving up to the bullying, the violence. And I'm against it. I'll be a little hot on account of my personal experience. It's not exactly the driving point. Senator. But I just have to say, we're not supposed to give up before the bullying, we're supposed to fight the harassment and the war on the grounds of that violence. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u5	Mr. President. I thank you again. A senator for this answer and for providing us with insight into this situation with his own experience and experience. I kind of sense that underneath we agree, me and him. A senator, i.e. in that both want to prevent children from becoming teased with physical defects of any kind, with cleft palate, cleft penis, testicles that do not go down. We want these faults to be fixed as soon as possible to try to prevent harassment, to prevent distress, to prevent children from building up a problem they carry into their lives. That is what we want to avoid, so we want to change this matter. That is why I feel that, after that, we really agree. A senator was talking about earlier. I'll be pretty surprised if I do. A senator does not vote for us Middleclassmen in this matter, nor does he agree with us middle-class members to retract the case, to adapt it so that it achieves exactly this objective that we do and do. A senator, we agree so deeply. I'll say again, "Thank you. " A member of the council is eager to give us this insight into his experience, for it is precious. She'll toughen me up, for example. and me and my associates of the Central Party, no doubt still trying to get this matter changed, for the good of the children of this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u6	Mr. President. I was the head of the majority of the World Health Committee and Education Committee, and I explained this matter to the 2nd Environment. The case went back to the committee after 2nd. We received visitors, and then we took care of the situation without a committee opinion, and there was no information in the meetings held by the committee, which require a change in the subject. However, it is important for me to consider some factors, especially when considering the discourse as a matter of course. paritaprevir The village of Sæmundsson was holding. At a meeting of the committee, both during the discussion of the case on the 2nd committee. and like those meetings held between 2 and 3. Um., it was clear that this bill does not withhold children from necessary health care. Between the 2nd and the 3rd. We were contacted by a surgeon in the country who explained that the governor's office had submitted a review to the sex - self - control bill, No. 80/209, where the surgeon general recommended appointment of a staff. Then it was done. The bill we're discussing today is the product of the group's work. A surgeon noted that they had succeeded in doing this work well and that it was done well. A review came from Iceland's Medical Association between the 2nd and 3rd. and recommends the company with the approved bill. Then the committee was also contacted by doctors who had been in the working group who provided suggestions on which the bill is based. I just want to discuss the group of people, since the evidence has been made that they were members and interested persons who were involved in making this bill. It is certainly true that in the group appointed to review these matters and to build a bill, an individual was appointed from the Council of '78 and a member designated by Intersex Iceland. However, others in this group were a lawyer with expertise in child - care rights, a lawyer with expertise in human rights, a child surgeon, an ethic, a child's surgeon, a clinical psychologist, and a sex expert, so to act as if the case was not worked by a specialist is simply not correct and I think it is very important that it be discussed. Mr. President. We in the majority of the General and Education Committee count, as we did 2nd. Um, this is a matter of careful action. It's taken time to write this bill and take it through the system. This has been done by skilled experts in broad fields. But I also want to make sure that there are no unnecessary operations on children that are truly important. So I hereby recommend that this bill be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the talk, the Árnadóttir Þóra Eagledotir. There are two things I want to ask you. A senator in. First, what is the senator's attitude toward this so - called rule that turns toward penis hypoplasia and a short urethral? Counts 'em out. A senator that makes sense and should be in the rules, or thinks it's wrong. A senator that should be eliminated? Then I'm not asking what. A senator whether it is wise to place this in one of the committee's work adopted, as already framed against the process, but whether. A senator believes that this rule should last or not. The other thing I wanted to ask you. A senator turns his attention to the birth problems of boys who are not listed under this particular rule. Now I'd like to take an example of one such disorder that's got my penis split. When can you tell? A senator that a boy born with a split penis has sufficient development and understanding to make his own decision that he wants his birth disorder corrected? Because it could be a boy with no doubt about either kind of sex.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u8	Mr. President. First of the Special Order, I recommend that the bill be accepted as it is. There's some reexamination regulations in the bill. I'm not medically qualified, and I don't think I'm enough to be able to determine what measures are needed physically. In this regard, I must rely on experts. However, research was found to produce, so there is reason to collect information and look at it, as well as to the experience of the law. So I like living there. It involves a group, but at the same time it says: "We gain knowledge, and we look into it in the light of what is being brought forth by it. So I think it's a nice place to get my knots fixed. In this case, the severity of symptoms. One senator mentioned, I think that there are no different times when children can make decisions about such things. Children are being built up to have progressive effects and, on a gradual scale, have something to say about their own bodies. Also, I think that some things are done in the bill by means of children and parents getting access to professionals about it. [[The president calls.]] So I feel like I'm being handled with this multiplicity of human life on this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u9	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For the answer, the Árnadóttir Þóra Eagledotir. For the second thing I came on, about when a child would mature to make a decision to develop a condition such as a split penis - it would be better if parents and children didn't have access to experts and services. Of course, they have today too. It's about limitation. Criticism in the Central Class focuses on the fact that the freedom to use modern medicine to help children who are born with, for example, is being limited. It's a disease like this. But I would like to ask. A senator about something else in the second time against me. It says, according to Intersex of Iceland, by permission of the President: ▪ Work was much smaller than it had to be. Both took the committee late in operation and it is also clear that the Covid-19 did a significant step in the work of the Committee. There were significantly fewer days and much less time for discussion than would have been needed. For example, at the final meeting of the Committee, there was no discussion of caused by a doctor in the Committee. V.E.G. President. I'd like to direct the question to the head of a major global and educational committee whether this section of Intersex's review underlined the fact that the situation is as deep and as thorough as it has been in the discussion. I feel like there's a lot missing in this description.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u10	Mr. President. Yes, I believe, in spite of this statement, there was a good job here and a lot of good publicity. This is one of the factors in which it is clearly stated that children can be treated successfully if this is considered necessary. Of course, sometimes people want to be able to talk about something more specific, and I think it's all right to do. It has been reasoned that, as the situation exists today, experts appreciate the importance that there is room for intervention. It also appeared to the Committee that there are new research, that new things are happening. Hence, it is reasonable to put this in order to reexamine it, taking into consideration the knowledge that will take place in a few years, to review this subject in particular. So, yes, I believe all evidence suggests that the bill is well designed and based on the very best information available in this field.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u11	A respectable president. In this discussion, I have noticed that some share their opinion of this subject, and it works to cause her to be concerned and concerned about the feelings of a child. It is essentially a respectable attitude. On the other hand, we sometimes fail to agree on how to solve problems, even when we agree that there is a problem. This may misunderstanding about who is responsible for what is involved when people offer solutions that do not take into account the source of responsibility. The problem I'm talking about is harassment, teasing, and other forms of violence, physical or mental. In this case, people feel that it is important to be born with some kind of symptoms, which are likely to be the cause of war, harassment, or bad behavior of others later in life. I realize that this wording comes from affection, but it throws responsibility into the wrong place. In fact, when people are subjected to violence or harassment, violence is in my opinion - it is not the one or the one that is going to suffer the violence that is supposed to change. It is the people who use violence to change. I hate to draw out my personal experience in a punk, I think it's boring. I find it a dull discussion involving the personal experiences of members in general, and it can be a little awkward because others are disturbed. Since members of Congress do not have insight, they do not have the ability to comment on the personal experience of others. That is partly why I often find it boring. But I kind of have to do it in this case because I know exactly what I'm talking about when it comes to being attacked, harassed, and violent by others for being who I am and who I am. At one time, when I experienced this, I learned very quickly what adults can be - forgive, a respectable president - stupid, how stupid adults can say stupid things. There's not much I can remember about my childhood as clearly as it is exactly what adults can be as experienced, large, physically large as the child I was at the time, yet so completely confused as to the situation. What adults sometimes said to me when I had my problem was: Just be yourself. Then you grow up, and you learn that it wasn't what the adults wanted because I was myself. That's just the way I was. I was just weird, I was unusual. It was me, it was my anger, it was my self, my soul. My plan was: Be like a normal person. That's what was being asked for at the time. Why don't you fix yourself? Why is the whole world supposed to be after you being such a special person? What about the world's just leave you alone and not judge you, not resorting to violence, and harassing you for being different? How's that sound, Mr. Honorable President? Therefore, though I find it hard to carry my feelings in the public square, it hurts me personally when people act as if they are responsible for those who are different from others to change rather than those who use violence to change. It's a surrender for violence. It's a rationalization of violence. I know that's not what it is. Councilmen mean from the heart. I know that's not what they think they're saying. But that's what I hear and I hear and I hear a lot of people out there, people who get hit because they're in some way different from other people. I am so happy now that I have become a so - called adult - how much others have to judge - and live in a society where there is an understanding that there is no responsibility in those who are some sort of deviation from some kind of north and have to change themselves to the norm. Norm itself is just not that important. It is not important that we all act the same way. It's just not important. It doesn't matter. There is a fundamental difference between having a problem because you don't fit in the north, or you don't fit in the box on the other hand, and because you have health problems. This bill is written, and it is seen reading it, considering the fact that we can be born with health problems. They can affect our sexual traits, our genital organs, such as any member of our human body, mind, or soul. - Maybe we'll skip the soul. We won't go into it. - And why shouldn't that be taken into consideration? Why would those who wrote this bill just throw out children's health from the window to send any political messages? I don't have much to say. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon before talks, but I must commend him for the short talk he held here and read some of the fistula because of the speech that has been heard here at the high Council on the absurd idea that experts who devote their lives to caring for children and caring for children would somehow help prevent children from getting necessary health care. It's just not like that, Mr. Honorable President. What we may be missing in this council hall is what is essential to health care and health care, what is considered to be real health issues, and social reasons. It's just not the same thing. The person, a person of Homo sapiens, is physically and spiritually, so that basically anything can go wrong in some way. Thus, medical science is often complex, especially when it comes to moral questions. Clear lines are not necessarily accessible. Therefore, it is important that procedures are in place to make specific evaluations. As far as I can see it is done in this bill. Right away. People come here and act as if they're offering the health interest of children, I feel as if they're reading from some other bill other than what I have in front of me. It doesn't quite rhyme with the lyrics I read and the words I mentioned here. According to this, there may be a need to revise something here at some point. I don't think we'll ever get by when it comes to health or medical science. We're always learning something new. There is always some new incident that requires that we reexamine our minds. This bill is such a result because there are people in the community who are exposed to the intervention they would like to have avoided, the interventions made to make people more normal, more normal, so that they were more comfortable in the little sweet box we all probably fit in. No, a respectable president. Although I think that adults at the time have misunderstood what it was saying, I still believe the words: " Be yourself. '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson before this speech. She was very good, and I thank him again for giving us insight into what he has experienced. That takes courage. There was mainly one thing I would do in speaking to each other. Senator. Now I'm not going to say that I can read better than he, not at all, than that. A senator asked in one place in his talk whether it was human belief that experts who had educated themselves and dedicated their lives to children, their problems, and their corrections of these problems and help them with the problems, whether we thought they would want to put a stone in the street of children, or something like that. That's exactly why I'm asking. A senator. I agree with him in this regard, but I do not believe that well - meaning people who are well - educated and who have dedicated their lives to the well - meaning welfare of children by learning and working, place a stone in their path. That's why I want to ask him why. A member of the council believes that this same team of experts involved in this work is becoming involved in complicateing the affairs of others, as is true of those with dysgeusia. What causes this team of experts who have devoted their lives to their children and their affairs to compromise the matter in this way?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u13	A respectable president. Somehow I have a feeling that I haven't quite got it. A senator's words apply precisely when he says that things are being complicated. But I'm going to try to answer according to the sense that I came across the question and thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I consider this and that sort of thing in nature complicated. I deeply respect people's interests when they have different opinions on this matter. And I respect the adults I called in my speech stupid, who was trying to help me at the time. These people were doing well, and all the adults were in their heart with their party victim. But it is only so important when we are dealing with social problems that we clearly understand where the responsibility lies. Rather, it is typical of human society that people are vague. One of the most famous examples in human society may already be when it comes to sexual abuse, how easy it has been for society to blame the victim for it. In fact, it may not be the same affection as that of the abused child, but the foundation of the problem is the same, that responsibility is placed in the wrong place. If it's not clear, I understand very well that this case will be very complex. But what I'm saying is that this is supposed to be clear. We are to make it clear where we put our responsibility. In case of a moment. A senator refers to the misunderstanding that comes from whether there is a medical intervention or a biological intervention, and I believe that again is the nature of the matter. Biology is complex, we are complex creatures on our bodies and minds. [[The president calls.]] This will inevitably complicate the matter. But I have a feeling I missed out on something that didn't come up with a question. Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u14	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I did not feel that he had misunderstood me in one way or another or that he was trying to turn out of me in one way or another. But, hey. In answer to what we have been saying in all this discussion, a senator said that the bill we are now discussing is social, not medical, but social. That is what we talk about, when we have thesetypical sexual traits, which can certainly be corrected by medical intervention, but we have a very prominent social problem, against our having these features, defects in creation, if we can call them what needs to be corrected by medical intervention. That's why I'm asking. A senator, because I feel that he fully understands this very well and that I don't feel as much out in the field as I have since since we've had this exchange because it's very common and it's been common in this discussion that our language of the Middle Class to this case has been deported as we've been accused of all kinds of prejudices towards the others and those who are not at all because we have a sincere desire to have a solution to this health problem as soon as possible. That's why I'm asking. A senator: If he didn't agree with me, this bill would have been better in two ways, i.e. On the one hand, what is involved in these errors that need to be corrected by medical procedures and the other to isolate the other issues so as not to interfere with the lives of both groups? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u15	A respectable president. I believe the crutch is a consequence of its biological intervention of socialism. This is precisely why there is opposition to this intervention, i.e. because people see their social consequences or their responsibility for other than the biological characteristics of the individual involved. Maybe I'll just say it a little complicated. It is the nature of the object in which it is a biological intervention to which opposition is due to a change in social princes, that two things are going together in this bill. I don't see exactly how to separate this, I don't see how to prevent unnecessary intervention that is made only by social conditions without both talking about the biological intervention and the social consequences they can have. I know why. A senator and a Middle Class are severely criticized for their views on these matters, but I believe that this is the case. The members of the Central Party do not seem to take into account their speech, as in this case, where the responsibility lies. When people are given responsibility that they do not have, they will naturally be angry and will experience an attack on them. That's what I think to be the choice. A senator mentioned that subject. [[The president calls.]] I wish we had more time to discuss it quite specifically, but it's not necessarily certain that the ponta Alllis is the scene for that. [[The president calls.]] At any rate, I declare myself ready to have that conversation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u16	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his speech, and I thank him for sharing his childhood experience. We know that harassment can lead to life. Loneliness truly is a manifestation of man's sinful nature. I wanted to ask you what. A little, because I know he's done a lot of research, and he's getting ready well before he's here and especially on these matters. I mentioned in my speech earlier that in the prestigious Harvard University medical journal Harvard Medicine Journal, these topics are discussed. It discusses that cases of atypical sex traits are rare, teachable, and subjected in research data. As a result, experts find it difficult to identify the best way to handle these individuals. Added to that is pressure from human rights organizations. The doctors and experts who support the operation of a child with atypical sex traits, and this is from the United States, from the respected medical journal, have reasoned: Children will not remember the operation, wound healing faster, and less bleeding, and children will not grow up unsure of their sex life, and children and their families will not be subjected to harassment. The medical journal also speaks of thesetypical sexual traits as a complex subject, medical, political, and otherwise, and in particular in the last years, this area was directly occupied by certain groups that made it impossible for specialists to have the courage to discuss these matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd like to get a second opinion. A senator of what I traced here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u17	A respectable president. First, as I've traced here before, it is assumed that in the bill it is not always completely clear what is necessary and what is not necessary. There is no specific antidote for gender symptoms, this is true in general for health care. These are complex questions that experts are trained to answer and that they have devoted their lives to answering. The bill assumes that such experts ask such questions, and I believe it is a reasonable solution. I think it's best stored in that hand if it answers any part of a question. Senator. It's a world movie anyway. A senator is so different from the memory that there are so many people who choose when it is. A senator asks. I want to pick something that will best answer as long as possible. A senator wanted an answer. However, he noted that the evidence he referred to refers to people who are not unsure about their sex life and who will not be subjected to mobbing and so on if they have certain operations at an early age. I don't know exactly what I can refer to more than my speech to answer it to the extent that I understand what is happening. A senator is leaving. But what's going on right now around the world, I hope, but certainly in Iceland, I'm aware that sex isn't as black and white, it's not as right, it's not as much up and down, it's not as clear as we've been getting used to out of cultural and traditional views in that respect. Mankind is more complicated than simply being men or simply women. In an environment where it is simply assumed to be two sexes, and only two sexes, it is no wonder if at first they have an insecurity about their sex. Then the problem is not the people themselves, so the problem is not the disorder of the sex. [[The president calls.]] Then the problem is the society that expects us all to fall in the same Norse and to fit into the same box, for that is simply not the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u18	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'd like to say, at times, society can be cruel, especially when it comes to harassment, such as roughness. A member of the congregation who is well - acquainted with God's Word and is very impressed by the way he uses his talk in the past. The evidence I just quoted from Harvard University indicates that there is little evidence to do long-term research on the subject, i.e. the risk of surgery cannot be measured as a result. However, the benefits of waiting for an operation cannot be determined. In addition, they say that it is unclear whether those who have reported their experiences publicly share experiences that most people have reported. We don't know that, so I think this is a very interesting point, i.e. lack of data. Then you ask yourself, " Do I have enough evidence to set this kind of law? ' I think there's every reason to wonder, because it's extremely important that you have good results from research. It touches the natural person and can be of major importance to the person involved in which the law is involved. [[The president calls.]] When the evidence is missing, aren't humans just ahead of them? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u19	A respectable president. Even if it lacks data in one place, it does not mean that it lacks data elsewhere. It is well - known that when scientists are studying one thing or another, sometimes they lack data, but then someone else finds it, or one has access to it, and another doesn't. I'd like to point out two facts that I'd like to find out. There have been interventions, biological interventions to individuals who do not agree with them, just to serve a social, cultural attitude, for that reason. I haven't heard anyone say that it wasn't that way through the years, it's been that way in the past, according to everything I know about the matter, and actually my knowledge of the matter from a few years ago since I was looking at it, so that knowledge is probably not that unknown, I suppose. Another fact is that there are people--I've taken my hand on these people and talked with them and downhills after conversations with these people, I'm sure I was there, I didn't dream -- which happened to these interventions and is seriously against them and I've suffered a serious injury in my life because of them. From that point on, the pressure to change this arrangement is put here. With regard to the medical questions as a matter of course. A senator points to them I believe the questions are best in the hands of experts who know about them. From my reading of the bill, I can't better see that it's exactly that way; that there are experts who appreciate what is needed measures, whatever their consequences, on the basis of their actions, etc. It is not our task here in a child to settle this for each individual, as well as for the other. A senator well knows, and I wasn't objecting. [[The president calls.]] But as far as I can see, the bill takes into account their comments or questions. A senator asked.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u20	A respectable president. This case is set up as a great requisition, a milestone that will bring up the so - called rainbow list in Iceland. I'd like to ask myself the question, " To whom and to what is the rightness of this matter? ' And go through the numbers just around. The largest study conducted indicates that the unborn child born with an intersex age is 0.018% of born babies. In Iceland it is just less than one child a year. If you look at the children born with non-typical gender characteristics, the ratio will reach 1.7%, if you see a wide definition in that number. There are then about 75 children a year, compared to birth rates of 4,200,4500 children in recent years. I certainly think it is wise and necessary to protect the Intersex children from unnecessary measures. However, the cost of this matter, as it is known, is that the group of these terms has been extended almost a hundred times by adding a number of birth problems to the definition. As a result, children born with medical conditions that are known, modern - day ways of correcting, will not be allowed to enjoy their medicine until they are mature to make such a decision on their own. Is it legal for the child born with a short urethral to have to pee until he is young? Is this a justice for the boy, since his balls do not go down so that he cannot be helped as a child? Is it a justice for the child born with a split penis that it must not be fixed until the boy reaches the maturity of being able to make his own decision? Is there a justice in that a boy suffering from an undergrowth of penis can't enjoy the solutions of medical science? A respectable president. The answer to that question, of course, is no. These are just a few of the many diseases that cannot be corrected as a child, even though there is no doubt about whether it is a girl or a boy. This doesn't make any rights. It's not human. We're supposed to help the target to defend the subject by bill, i.e. intersex children. But we should not expand this by allowing children born with congenital disorders known to modern medicine and able to solve without great problems, great difficulties, not to get the solution, that they are taken away for some groundless purpose. I'd like to reiterate what I said about the numbers, just so they're good. Intersex children are estimated to be 0.018% of babies born, equivalent to less than one child on average each year in Iceland, and that children born with atypical sex traits in a wide range of up to 1.7%. We must not allow ourselves to approach these areas in a way that allows us to grow almost a hundred times the group that has limits to the availability of medical care. This means no hostility to any extent in the eyes and interests of an intersex child, just not at all. I think it is far more likely that if you walk too far in these matters, it will cause present, opposition, and aversion to this solution. I wanted to be in touch with the number of children I mentioned read an answer from May 11, 2015, the highest. the current health minister, Kristján Þór Júlíusson, answers the questions now. paritaprevir Lives Ólafsdóttir here at the high asked General Assembly, by permission of the President: ▪ How many operations per year are performed in children to improve the quality of the body, as it is called? The minister's answer is, by permission of the President: U.S.A., in the past ten years, three children with genital disorder have been born. In addition, one child has been adopted to the country. - Even if it doesn't show up in the answer I'm reading, I'm giving me that it's in the season of 2005-2015. All of these are four children. This is very supportive of the number I propose here, that less than one child on average is born an intersex, i.e. ratio 0.018%. Of the babies born in Iceland, it would hardly be one child on average each year, considering the fact that birth is 4,200,4500 in recent years. I would like to criticize the views expressed in the reviews of a particular person, and I simply don't understand what is allowed by Amnesty International and Intersex Iceland and Trans Iceland, as well as by the fact that it is as hard and as difficult as it is against a special law that allows, even after a lengthy opinion and logical support with considerable obstacles, measures that lead to overdirection of the urinary tract as well as an undergrowth of penis. Commenting on Amnesty International, the president's permission states: Despite this bill, Amnesty International's Department laments that there is a more specific rule that makes permanent changes in the sexual characteristics of a child born with atypical sex disorder consisting of a too short urethral or an undergrowth of a penis and encourages the removal of the special rule. Intersex Iceland says about this, with the permission of the President: In the work of the Committee and a trial here, two groups of children with an atypical [sexual characteristics] are particularly affected by this legal protection and legalisation. - And then suggest that these special regulations be canceled. And go on, with President's permission, says in Trans Iceland's review: Trans Iceland, however, wants to point out that the law does not guarantee physical immunity to all individuals. The legislation recommends that short-pass patients and small penises are allowed to perform operations as long as the consequences and benefits of such measures are considered. Trans Iceland does not believe that the benefits of their actions are justified... Then, according to Trans Iceland's review, with the permission of a president: However, if [National Committee] changes are not made, Trans Iceland suggests that temporary regulations will be changed in order to reevaluate a new group of 11 articles, instead of doing so within the age of three years. Under these circumstances, more of the General and Education Committee is taking place. Thus, it is being pushed and speeded up that this rule will be canceled. It's amazing to see more of the General and Education Committee agree with this. There are two specifications listed here, but there are, of course, more. I just want to remind you of what's in Intersex's reviews. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Work was much smaller than it had to be. Both took the committee late in operation and it is also clear that the Covid-19 did a significant step in the work of the Committee. There were significantly fewer days and much less time for discussion than would have been needed. For example, at the final meeting of the Committee, there was no discussion of caused by a doctor in the Committee. That discussion was not presented to the meeting, and it was clear that no member of the committee was fully prepared for that discussion. Does this comment in Iceland's Intersex suggest that the case fundamental to all this legislation has been fully developed and worked and analyzed and considered within the Committee? I'm afraid not. The evidence indicates that this is not the case at all. I would have considered it wise to take this matter for further work, for truly there are things in which it is wise to look to and find a solution. We must not fall into the pit of extending the group that will then have to live with limited access to modern medical services but would be desirable in times where the work of the committees all worked and the bill on which the bill is founded was much smaller than would have been needed in the opinion of Intersex Iceland. Although I was truly surprised at how few people here at the council are making comments about this, truly, I'm surprised and sorry, I am sure that this bill could be replaced in a way that made much greater peace with it. I think we're gritting in here some of the things that are going to make all those who are subject to this bill feel uncomfortable in the future. I would particularly like to reiterate and criticize that more of the General and Education Committee will appear to agree specifically that the rule will be reviewed as soon as possible. Bear in mind that the rule contains only two birth problems, but there are, of course, a lot more who would be wise to agree on it and the consequences permanently. Of course, this section of Intersex's review explains why they are not more when the commission was in effect near the end of the article. But I'm going to say good for now, a respectable president. I reiterate that the definition is being extended hundreds of times from what is thought to be the largest research that can be considered to be the real ratio of the Intersex children. With the reference to the highest possible response. A health minister from 2015 does not seem to be far away in Iceland, although there is always a greater flutter in such a small country than we live in compared to larger communities and the whole world in itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u21	A respectable president. I've been thinking about it during this discussion about sexual autonomy, which group is trying to appeal to. I don't get it at all. It was quite remarkable to sit here in a council hall a few days ago and see that the Central Party alone voted against these human rights matters that others here agree to be an important step forward. I think the Central Party miscalculated itself in its struggle, I don't even know what he's trying to do. I'm just saying, what is this supposed to mean? This is not a fight for human rights or child protection from the Middle East. What the hell is that? It's a powder shot from the Central Party. The class leader has been talking about government matters, extremes, opportunity, and all manner of verbal abuses and words that he tries to label himself in some way. If this isn't a failure to be an opportunist at the Central Party, I don't know what. The evidence they've tried to promote here has been refuted, i.e. that children are not getting necessary medical care. [[Up front.]] There's been a lot of pressure at the Assembly Hall and in the evidence involved. So I ask. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason: This bill stands by specialists in human rights, surgeons, Iceland's Medical Association, Intersex Iceland, the Association of '78 and more. What does he have in mind that these members are not here with a good case in the chamber that can be trusted and followed? What does the senator have there?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. It may not be surprising. A senator does not view it as a possibility that men, members of Congress, and members of the council will maintain views in the chamber simply because they consider it to be right, reasonable, and good, there must always be other interests for which to be spoken to a certain group. I'm sorry. In case of a moment. A senator would have listened to my speech if it had been quite morning light. [[I did.]] We're in a hurry. The General and Education Committee didn't even bring in one doctor. This was then required at the Senate Hall and the case was called in. [[That's wrong.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u23	That's wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u24	Wasn't there a meeting at the General Education Committee yesterday where doctors and surgeons came before the committee? [[Up front.]] It was like that, wasn't it? I'm not a member of the committee. Hv. A senator might reveal me if I did not. My data is that the entire medical discussion of the Committee was being performed, and this underscores what Intersex's reviews of the work group were doing. [[That's wrong.]] I refer to the review of Iceland's Medical Association, which, as it is now known, is still another consideration that it was not recorded until the last meeting of the work group that prepares all of this. It says, by permission of the president: THE THREE shows that there will be no management of the bill's regulations that the child's sexual characteristics must be permanently altered, although they are under 16 years of age, if health reasons require it, as the need for change and its consequences should be carefully evaluated.... Of course, the viewpoint presented here must be considered in the context of what is stated in Intersex Iceland's review of how these matters were discussed in the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u25	Mr. President. I don't quite understand. A senator is here with some kind of ring design. There are certain actions that will be allowed to be carried out in this law. Hv. The senator traced down the reviews that were presented in which they object to the possibility of these actions. We did not take them into account. Rather, they let the bill stand as it came about it. These actions can be carried out in the form of comments. Besides, I'm just gonna have to object to what it was about the majority opinion. What is said and considered, it is that the majority of the cases claim that within three years of institution, the minister should appoint a group. The majority feel that it gives Ministers the opportunity to appoint the staff from the office of the law, but no more than three years after the hearing. So important is the fact that the debate over the seminary continues and assent that there is no delay in starting the group. The majority of the data does not indicate the outcome, nor can we know what the outcome will be in a case that will be about after the law takes effect, i.e. from the time they take effect and no later than three years later. That is what the committee's list of parts said, and I thought it was important for me to be clear in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Although there was no direct question against what? In this context, I must reacquire what I entered earlier in the reference to Intersex Iceland, where it is addressed to the special principle proposed by Intersex Iceland to be canceled, there is no doubt in their minds about that. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Work was much smaller than it had to be. Both took the committee late in operation and it is also clear that the Covid-19 did a significant step in the work of the Committee. There were significantly fewer days and much less time for discussion than would have been needed. For example, at the final meeting of the Committee, there was no discussion of caused by a doctor in the Committee. That discussion was not presented to the meeting, and it was clear that no member of the committee was fully prepared for that discussion. This is the final meeting of the Committee. What kind of work are these? This is the foundation of the law. It is quite surprising that here, a prominent member of the Committee presents a greater part of the opinion in an antiquated pit, claiming that things are growing in a very different way than they are clearly under the reference given to Intersex Iceland, which was in this committee's work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u27	President. This case would likely have run through with little or almost no discussion, apart from perhaps a few short talks in which people boast of their own kindness, except because the middle party raised the subject and pointed to a number of points in the bill that its supporters in many cases seemed to have no idea. In fact, most members of Parliament did not seem to realize what this issue was all about, but the name of the bill is very misleading and expects us to judge it primarily and to think only of it. This is not a matter of sexual autonomy. It is about controlling the ability to cure children because of certain inborn disorders. This is made clear in the bill, and it's repeated. It's not like it's hidden somewhere. It is displayed over and over, pages by page, as the goal of the bill. Then, in the discussion, showing what kind of virtual reality we have entered concordance, it is called conservative use of science and medicine. This is because this issue has more in common with some sort of extreme religion than with facts and science. And even now, people can say that this is not really a cure or a medicine, based on other definitions, including the definition that sex is primarily a social phenomenon. It is repeated here several times that sex is social, not biological. We have seen such discussions abroad, where it is, nevertheless entirely on the edge, that there is no gender, that there is a social phenomenon. But nowhere else has it infiltrated a large bill that also allows children to be cured. A foreign medical textbook, a doctor's authority, has discussed similar matters, except what is often more difficult to discuss. It refers to a large number of individuals who are even unclear about the particular sex. There seems to be no idea that there would be a Congress case or that there would be a law against the fact that the various birth problems related to genitourinary organs would be put in a group with what is called the Intersex and would try to prevent measures to cure these diseases. I think most doctors would now consider this to be dangerous, to say the least. However, in the study of many doctors that discuss this well - chosen group, which may be a little more doubt as to whether to engage in action, there are many warnings about how to handle such a dangerous procedure. I mention, for example. An article in the Frontiers in Pedicultrics, by a multinational team of experts who warn of the fact that there is evidence, I don't talk about legalization, that unless they are old enough to make their own decision, they say, 'cause it can have tragic consequences, tragic consequences. What a tragic result if children are not healed in time when they produce the most results and are the safest! I repeat, though, that this is just a case of very limited occurrences, not to prevent children with too short urinary tracts from being cured. I don't think anybody ever thought that any government could suggest such a thing, even if it's allowed in here, at least. This is a time, a limited release in this regard. But even since all these foreign doctors in their textbooks deal with the action of children in which sex is not absolute, in the vast majority of cases it is recommended that time be taken. And no one uses this opportunity to prevent such a cure from being healed, and the result is disastrous in adulthood. In fact, some of these articles also discuss the anguish of parents who face the system and endless obstacles when looking for cures for their child. There is no such thing as this. It is believed that parents simply have no right to make a cure for their children. However, the law on patients' rights shows that it is not just the right of parents to make such decisions, that is their duty. Nevertheless, the same law as their section on the right of patients to make their own decisions, adult patients, is cited to argue that parents or health care professionals cannot make a decision for their children. This bill is full of such paradoxs. All of this is based on a new definition of what is called the bill atypical gender characteristics. They may admit that they are politically aimed at extending the definition very significantly, in effect, to the hundred-fold definition of the vague gender or intersex and thereby putting under this bill all the congenital disorders associated with children's genitals and taking out specifically and preventing the possibility of curative healing in these cases. You just have to be glad that there are no more ways in which you can stop the cure, since they can, of course, be different. You may think about preventing action because of atypical facial symptoms or atypical visual symptoms or anything else, but here your genitals are especially taken out. This is, as mentioned in the bill itself, not medical matters, and the occurrence of doctors has been very limited. Although the final moment of reasoning is now being tested at the conclusion that doctors were involved in this, it was a very limited event, and it is not a medical matter, as the bill says. It's about achieving some political, social goals. However, it is very interesting in this context to consider the chapter that the doctors involved in the bill, since they are trying to save into a corner of this and reason why it is important to continue two types of action, one because of the shortness of the urinary tract and the other because of the fact that boys do not grow. They point out that there is good experience with such measures and that they are relatively simple, in the second case it is sufficient to apply a hormonal patch or cream and as a result, because of the patch, the boy and later the man can live normal lives, have children, and go to the toilet without a major problem. Even after the doctors'reminders, however, this was to be taken into account by many of those who gave the commission a review and came to prepare the case. And the majority of the committees are following in their opinion that this view is followed by a further review of whether to allow these limited accessations. This is limited because it is not like your child getting the patch one, two and three when it is clear what the problem is. No, even when it is clear that the patch can be cured, the child and parents need to wait and go through meeting some committees and counselors who in some cases will try to explain that it is best not to do so, because who are called to counsel the law? Who to look for? Yeah, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well. It is, of course, such extremeism that you did not believe that such a case would appear here on the land. We can imagine if the government in any other country was preventing the healing of children, such as the government. For religious reasons, would it not be quick to accept condemnation toward the governments that did so? But here it is suggested on the basis of some sort of new religion, and the result is that fewer children are healed. Of course, parents will always do what they can to protect their children so that this will mean that many parents who face obstacles at home, even bans, will turn to foreign countries for cures. The situation will be as soon as this bill is agreed that Icelandic parents need to go abroad to be healed for their child's health problems, which, in many cases, are readily cured, to receive measures that are now taken, and in many cases have been practiced for decades and given a number of people a better life, a better quality of life. Recently, media headlines revealed that 6,000 people in Iceland, now living in Iceland, had been born with what is now called atypical sexual traits, but these people had the opportunity for cures as children when the cure could produce as much results, at least. The majority of them were able to do so, being born after science had evolved, so that it could be handled. But now it's not supposed to be allowed anymore. Then there is the strange argument we've heard, last of the discussion here today, that if anything can cause prejudice, it can't be altered. That's not a reason, Mr. President. If that was reasoning, the same should be true, e.g. kin problems. If a person is suffering from skin problems, it is part of his/her identity, as mentioned in the bill on congenital urinary or genital disorders, then this is the child's concern, target it, and define the type of person it is. Then these skin problems may not be allowed to be cured because they are part of the child's identity and may become prejudiced. But it is being sent children with problems in a specific field of life, almost as a sign of - not exactly, it is now just here: a sign of diversity and to combat statistical images, so that these children who are so unfortunate to be born with certain disorders are made up of some kind of game jumper in the battle against stereotypes. Now, I just reiterate what I mentioned before, it's just as well that people don't have much more time to move this into other problems: lip damage, skin problems, or any condition that can be born. This case is not based on cures, as is recognized here. It's not based on reason. It's not based on science. It is based on some modern extremeism that involves a return to ancient times, which includes children, even dozens of children, each year, being cured that would otherwise have been available to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u28	A respectable president. I'll limit this answer to just one simple question to the question. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson. His numerous talks on this matter and other issues have been repeated. The members of the Central Party believe that this bill includes the problem with children that they cannot be allowed to perform the necessary and ideal medical procedures in the original language. Now, Iceland's Medical Association supports this bill, the surgeon supports this bill, the pediatricians, the National Hospital experts support this bill, the child surgeons support this bill. So, there's my question. A senator: Does he believe that all these doctors whom I have considered here were deceived to support this bill, or does he believe that they deliberately opposed all their rules of conduct, the conduct, the Hippocratic oath, to please whom, in this misjudgment of the medical community toward children?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u29	Mr. President. As I mentioned in my speech, people are now trying to run into the clinic of medicine, even though they did not work this case out of medicine and did very little with that side of the case, for the majority of people involved in this case did it on grounds other than cures. Then we're gonna have a snooze. A senator here and, in some cases, many of the same people, the few doctors involved. But I don't. However, a senator has been pointing out what these people have been pointing out. This has repeatedly been the importance of not compromising the limited exceptions that still exist, the exceptions to the majority of the committee under the direction of the committee. The senator proposes that a special examination be made and a rapid review of whether or not to be authorized above the head. The doctors consider it to be that the best thing they can do in this situation is to pull at least a line in the sand there and try to protect these exceptions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u30	The senator won't answer...?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u31	He can't.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u32	Hv. A senator calls up here. He has another chance of answering back. But I'm explaining this to you. A member of a committee meeting there heard the doctors'evaluations, which was now less explicit. A senator indicates.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u33	They support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u34	They support the warning on the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u35	They support the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u36	They'll support the bill if it's safe, which is not done here, Mr. President, that access will continue to be granted to certain doctors. But they do not support programs that prevent the healing of children.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u37	That law is not in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u39	Not a conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u40	Not one doctor has claimed that it is justified to put barriers to the healing of children when parents consider this to be in their best interests, especially when the cure can be given relatively simply.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u41	That's nonsense, Sigmundur, and you know it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u42	- Not one doctor. Show me the opinion, Mr. President, that a doctor has said that such an obstacle is righteous. [[It's just bullshit...]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u43	The speakers must be made to make a sound.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u44	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the opportunity to discuss these matters here at the Council for Christmas. There is a rapid increase in the frequency of the Covid-19 vaccine and there is no panic over the news every hour. This is a product of greater demand than any product at any time in history, i.e. A vaccine against Covid-19, to which every human child looks and waits with anticipation. There's a lot of mess about when a vaccination can start, which is normal. In fact, the rate of development of a vaccine against Covid-19 has been high and now the fact is that in Iceland we'll be able to start a vaccination in this country at the end of the year. However, we need to be prepared for any dose to be delivered to the country and step-by-step vaccination within the next year. The following are the facts about the agreements with vaccine manufacturers and the implementation of vaccinations. The European Union has made a deal with six drug companies who have worked on vaccine development. Of these six, two companies have come in the longest of AstraZeneca and Pfizer. That means they've completed a third-phase study and a contract is signed against Iceland for the delivery of the vaccine and the extent of the contract. The third company, Modernna, has completed this third phase of studies and is expected to sign a contract with that company for a New Year's Eve. No vaccine has yet been authorised in Europe, but the marketing authorisation for Pfizer is expected to be published by Christmas. It can be assumed that there will be a marketing authorisation for Modernna soon after the yeardays and for AstraZeneca at the latest in February. Icelanders, like the Norwegians, have negotiated with Swía, who care for the distribution of vaccines to this country. It is therefore certain that we will receive vaccines in the same proportion as other European countries. We're in a hurry. As early as Christmas, it is planned to start vaccination with a health - care professional who is over 1,000 people. At the same time, there will be a vaccination for the inhabitants of nursing homes and nursing institutions, 3,000,4,000 people. When the next shipment arrives at the beginning of the next year, vaccination will continue in the oldest age groups. As for Pfizer, the delivery schedule is now prior to the first quarter, with an average of 3,000 doses coming per week from December 27th through March. These are only variable numbers; from 2,800 to over 4,000 doses per week in the first quarter. This is a matter of planning. AstraZeneca and Moderna vaccine will most likely be prepared as well as delivered in the first quarter but our agreement with these enterprises guarantees a vaccine which should be sufficient to vaccinate the target population for vaccination, i.e. people born before 2005. It is based on the fact that at least 70% of the target population needs to be vaccinated to achieve herd resistance, which is necessary for the pandemic to be fully controlled. Vaccination in this country will be carried out by a disinfectant, but the procedure will be conducted by health care professionals all over the country, and the vaccination in this country will not become a neck of bottle, nor will it be distributed in this country, but will be performed as quickly as the vaccines are received. An aquaculture surgeon is working for national planning and harmonisation, and a vaccination programme has been published. This will provide information on the priorities of vaccination, the schedule of vaccination induced individuals for enrolment, etc. Information on vaccination is already being provided on the website.is, but the preparation of the healthcare professional's educational material for vaccination is advanced and is already being checked regularly by the district and regional physicians of all health care professionals for the planned vaccination procedures. No serious adverse reactions have been observed with the vaccine to date. Mild influenza symptoms and tenderness at the injection site are the most common symptoms, but this is a reason for caution in those with severe hypersensitivity reactions and the vaccine has not been tested in pregnant women who are right to behave. It is important, most respected president, that Icelanders do not hesitate to be vaccinated. Although the rate of development of vaccine has been globally and historically high, no safety points will be considered. The reason that the process has gone as fast as it can be seen is that all the experience in previous development of vaccines, as well as rife capital and national cohesion has been put into production and the emphasis on achieving this result. If things go well, we can expect to have vaccinated the majority of the people in the first two quarters of the next year and we can begin to think as quickly as possible about recoverys that normalize the lives of the people of the land. We're, more dignified President, stepping into a new chapter of the fight with Covid-19. There is every reason to rejoice over it and not be affected by the lack of days in the news because, above all, we have entered this new section of vaccine, and with our contracts, we have provided enough vaccines for Iceland. This is key and vaccination will start soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u45	President. V.E.G. Here, a minister generally gave an overview of history and top priority. The minister feels that this is about to follow. But the reason for this discussion is the announcement received, and the psychiatrist reported that there would be a significant delay at least part of the vaccine, which would mean that we would have to live with some closures or limitations until the latter part of the next year. V.E.G. The prime minister said last night that this was due to a shortage of raw materials at Pfizer and some other problem in the manufacturing process. But now the company has reported that there is no problem with production. So there's some discrepancy here, and this discussion I thought was designed to give us more information about whether this delay will occur or not, and if the delay happens, what will be done to them. Could it not be, Mr. President, that it may have been a mistake to tie your religion to the EU in these matters? Or it's not an obstacle, in the highest estimate. Minister? Britain has recently given its people full vaccination with this Pfizer vaccine, but these are some obstacles and the normalness of the minister to inform the council of what they are. Why can the British be vaccinated and done for some time, but we're not here in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u46	A respectable president. That is correct. Pfizer sent out a statement yesterday where it was found that the company did not have a problem producing a vaccine or that a delivery was delayed. This was reported by Pfizer. The declaration is based on official publicity and debates that the manufacture and distribution of vaccine Pfizer are a problem, which occurred in many parts of the United States at that time. The response of the Ministry of Health to this is based on the fact that this report from Pfizer appears to apply to the United States market. The information provided by the European Union, Iceland and Norway is produced in the European continent and this delay has been due to a lack of raw materials. However, the production is now on the move. That's what we got and got this morning. We've signed a contract of 170,000 doses from Pfizer which really means a vaccine for 85,000 people, and that's what it means. The description given earlier on the first quarter of the distribution program is based on current information, starting this morning. And so it will be, that we will gradually get information on delivery plans. The uncertain factor will remain, i.e. When and how much comes every shipment from each company. But what we have now, and what we can tell you about Pfizer, in the first quarter, is a plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u47	Mr. President. I appreciate this information, but I reiterate the question to the Minister on whether the highest. A minister is convinced that we have taken the best way of ensuring vaccines and reiterate the question: What is the difference between Iceland and Britain in this regard? Where do we lay the delays here? Is there any reason to assume that there is a full production of Pfizer in Europe that there will be no significant delay in vaccination in Iceland beyond what has already taken place? There are no more significant delays in the administration of government plans.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u48	A respectable president. Like what? A senator knows that they're part of the EEA contract, so we're part of this whole context. In addition, traveling with the European Union strengthens our contract. It's in the eye. It is obvious that a state like Iceland would have been very different if we had faced these pharmaceutical companies ourselves. We don't want to put all the eggs in the same basket, and that's why we're having discussions with all these companies, which is also extremely important. It is also important to keep the European Medicines Agency and its permission in place because, as part of the EEA, we will receive the permission of the European Medicines Agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u49	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying something like that. A health minister to see that it is indeed a great joy to have us come to the point of waiting for a vaccine. I also want to say that I think people have to expect it, and there's nothing strange or strange about it, even if there are some noises to be delivered on this vaccine, as far as it's planned throughout the world. If that happens, do not lose your strength. However, it is important that people's expectations are in our country and in other parts of the world, in line with the normal scenarios that may arise. Sounds to me like we're doing pretty good with this situation and we're getting some vaccines. I have mostly two questions to the highest. Secretary of health. The first has to do with the normal life that was promised for us. It might be said that in August, the public was sold the idea that there could be a normal life here. That has not been the case. Now, at the beginning of this epidemic, it is finally talking about herd resistance, which was some kind of prohibition, if I recall correctly, but is, of course, just a normal process in the life of a viral epidemic, i.e. the search for herd resistance in various ways, not just one way. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers in particular on government plans. It's already in place, e.g. that the mortality rate among younger people is negligible while it is high among older people, yet it seems there is here that, if I get the impression, the number of disease prevention will not be significantly reduced until the majority of the population has been vaccinated. Minister right. I want to know because young people have had very high levels of limitations that are likely laid down, for example. Their education is permanent. The highest. Health Ministers will answer the objective of the government when it comes to vaccination? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u50	A respectable president. I want to say something. As for the senator, we must remain calm even if there may be some side effects on the delivery of vaccines, I completely agree with that. We need to show the same persistence and persistence in this regard as we have so far in the struggle with the epidemic. Hv. On the other hand, a member of the United States gives up the interaction between immunization and immunity in the community and preventative measures. It makes sense that, of course, it hangs together. It is not that there will be one magical date when everyone will have been vaccinated and finally all the arrangements will be lifted. Of course, we need to discuss the interaction of these measures, i.e. ... theextractions are in line with the fact that our most vulnerable groups have been vaccinated. I think it's going to make an eye out. We are now working on a school extraction plan, and especially are watching the high school program where, as many have been pointed out, the fact that we are not able to attend school has been largely dependent on the fact that we are not able to attend school. It is serious from very many viewpoints, not only on the issues discussed here, but also on the activity and status and public health issues in so many other respects. In terms of the interaction, sometimes we're talking about the color code system, and even though it's not specifically tamed, it must be such a loss of action as vaccinations arise. It's in the eye.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u51	A respectable president. Speaking of the color code, Iceland seems to be in some very dangerous phase right now. The whole country is marked with red, which is kind of incomprehensible to humans, and this leads me to my second question regarding the currently existing disease prevention measures. There seems to be a wide range of discrepancies in the process of logicalness, e.g. with reference to different risk of infection. For example, I would say that the risk of infection is higher in exercise than in swimming and that 16 - year - olds must not practice unless they are a master's class and so forth. I'd like to ask the highest. Health Minister if it is not possible to follow the example of the major international pharmaceutical companies, who have walked with good example and revealed their research and have placed all the data on the table. It is not considered that all data are subject to disease prevention and decision-making measures, the information behind the claims of increased risk of infection e.g. in exercise but swimming, to provide information on the number of people who practice this exercise? [[The president calls.]] Is it not possible to reveal all this information on one of those websites, all of which are on board, the SECs meetings, and other data supporting the claims of disease prevention? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u52	A respectable president. Like what? Of course, in a democracies community, a senator has repeatedly held it very important to ask questions and especially when there are restrictions on the rightness of people. So I think it's perfectly normal for people to think about it. There must always be a requirement for the government to be careful that objective viewpoints, medium - sized, and equal to all decisions. I know why. The management board has been specifically considered on these matters, which is very important. Information on the comparison of risks in individual areas has been made available, and as far as I know, this has occurred on the website of a land surgeon. As to the basis of decision making, I have made an effort to see that I have always received official data from a disease - control doctor's memo.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u53	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for this important discussion of the distribution of vaccine in a new year. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. The welfare committee has called for information, and of course, like the entire population, monitored media coverage on doses and how the procedure is being carried out. For example, the government and the head of health care officials can be commended for such programs as Óskar Reykdalsson, director of the health care of the capital area, arose, and proposed vaccinations to anyone who would not become much of a problem. He said the plan so that if the vaccine would be given for ten hours a day, 10,000 people could be vaccinated in one school each day. I want to celebrate this detoxification and commend health care professionals. It was reported during the days that we had already secured 170,000 doses of vaccine, but it is worth showing that each individual has to be vaccinated twice. No doubt it was a measure of disappointment yesterday to learn that only the 1st doses would fall right about 10,000. And now in this discussion, it was given to the highest court. Healthcare Minister that only 3,000 doses will be delivered each week from the end of December through March.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u54	First 10,000 and then 3,000.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u55	First 10,000 and then 3,000 doses a week from the end of December through March. According to the HCP declaration, the vaccine will be received through the European Union. So when it comes to this vaccine, I must ask what kind of protection we have in the European Union. Why is there such a conflicting message about an offer of vaccine in this country? Is this in any way consistent with what happens in our neighboring countries? However, according to the highest court. Then the minister has come to Sweden to assist us in this matter of interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u56	A respectable president. If only with regard to the masses, there have been misunderstandings in the discussion with Pfizer. We've secured 170,000 doses, i.e. A vaccine for 85,000 people. We're in a hurry. The contract is not about when the material is delivered but about the amount of the material being delivered. It hasn't changed. What changes is how fast it comes, not just to Iceland, but to all European countries. It attracted attention, and if any, it called attention. A senator looks at the current European mediums that this first dose, 10,000 doses, to Iceland, is as big as any country in Europe, regardless of the population in the United States. So we achieve a relative benefit, since the first dose is 10,000 in all of these countries. Then, as the delivery schedule takes into account the number of people in each country and was actually just setting it up this morning. A total of certain contracts guarantee three manufacturers - since we are talking about Pfizer, AstraZeneca, and Jansen - final contracts - vaccine doses for the entire population. So we're actually in business or we've finished our contracts beyond what we really need. The extent and extent of exposure to the material in the country are uncertain and uncertain. Iceland's interests are very careful. We are at the table, along with the Norwegians, and we have also had two - side communication with Sweden. We have felt this important, and it has given us a lot to make sure that our interests are as valuable as any state in the European Union. So that's how these data look today, and in this way we've been taking care of Iceland's interests as well as we can in this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u57	Mr. President. I can't bear to mention that exactly this situation shows how important it is that we have an active interest guard in the European Union, that we are at the table when making decisions. Despite those words, the highest. A minister that we're sitting at the same table is some other state speaking our case out there, which I think is unfortunate, since we are an independent, sovereign state. The manufacturer made a statement yesterday and stated that there was now and again a problem with the production of the vaccine. Millions of doses would be available and already would have, e.g. 2.9 million doses have been delivered to the U.S. health authorities. Then I can't let go of the words of experts, mentioned earlier as Óskar Reykdalsson, director of the Health Care Center in the capital area, said, with permission of the president: The most important thing is to do this quickly, get the material in first, so it starts to work. Then I wondered, that by taking it so slowly, 10,000 doses first, so 3,000 a week, we may be able to get 50,000 doses by the end of March and we each have to get two doses, twice in the course of vaccination. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's nothing so fast, Mr. President. Will this affect the quality of vaccinations and results?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u58	A respectable president. I just have to say the word. A senator's strong appeal is always refreshing to the director of the health care of the capital area, for there is a director who performs his work very well. [[Hear, hear.]] The level of health care has increased, so it is taken into account during this terms and particularly under his leadership. The important point was that Óskar had tools for a wide variety of films, i.e. that the materials would come at speeds and speeds, and it would never break the health care system. It's important. About the relationship with Sweden, you know why. Senator that we need a form between the European Union and the European Union. That's it. In this case it is Sweden. Hv. A senator also asks if this will affect the quality of vaccination. It's not. Here's the reason. A senator right there is counting the first 50,000 doses from this one producer, so right now. So a senator maintains his interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u59	Mr. President. It is natural that when you see that now, some 11 months after you first tried to figure out the solution to the problem with a vaccine, we should be at the point where three to four persons are actually in the final meters of a market that is active and can help you cope with this disease. A minister has considered the parties, so perhaps it is not a reason to list them. However, a lot of discussions have been made about one person, i.e. Pfizer and BioNtech and their vaccine Of course, it is important to do so. A minister came in earlier that there is only one member - and even if it is meant to be a noose, let's call it, be the distribution or manufacture of one person, it doesn't damage the whole picture. This underscores the importance of not having all the eggs in the same basket, that we talk to many people. There is reason to commend the Ministry and the Supreme Court. Minister especially for that. This is of utmost importance. But what I would like to ask is the highest. The minister is whether the Minister or the Ministry has information on how the other members are doing, whether their manufacturing process, especially AstraZeneca, has come as far as the media has left. It's important to know, including. because the AstraZeneca vaccine is more traditional than the other vaccines. Therefore, it should be easier to use technology in many ways or at least a known technology that should reduce the risk of nods. In addition, these vaccines are easier to transport.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u60	A respectable president. That is correct. In many respects, there is a more traditional approach. We signed agreements with AstraZeneca on October 15, where we obtained nearly 230,000 doses sufficient for 115,000 individuals. The three study phase is complete, and results have been published in a magazine. They are now awaiting confirmation of the European Medicines Agency and, on the basis of it, accept AstraZeneca for marketing authorisation. It is hoped that the permit will be published in January, as I mentioned earlier. AstraZeneca administration plan has not changed over the last days and weeks. The vaccine is expected to be transmitted to European Union countries, and to Iceland when authorised. That's pretty much what we can say now. But at how long it spreads, I don't have the answers. But there is absolutely no reason for us to have signed contracts that will cover nearly 115,000.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u61	Mr. President. What I think most of us would like to know when we enter the holidays - and therefore, I thank the highest. A health minister for coming here and having a conversation with us - is the picture of how the new year's appearance, how vaccination process will affect our lives, will affect the risk prevention measures so that we have some image, that we have some ideas about when we'll be vaccinated all the risk groups, all the prospective members. I think it's the information that came out during the discussion that maybe it's April, I don't know. That's what I have in mind. I'd love to see that. As the minister mentioned, the distribution of the other vaccines depends on the availability of the marketing authorisation, etc. We have ideas about this when that picture has become clearer. Once prospectives and high - risk groups have been vaccinated, there must be a level of health tolerance as far as it is concerned. It was one of the main risk factors that justified the preventative measures we took were as hard as we did, and they certainly came out better for people's lives and health, and for the economy, according to the information being taken together today. The Wall Street Journal noted that the EU production was more frequent in Sweden than in Norway and Denmark, and unemployment grew more in Sweden than in Norway and Denmark. So it seems that this was a very successful way to reach the authorities. But when do we start getting out of this? This image has been installed with a color table. The new north is just a matter of personal resources. When we were in the red color, we are now in fact in a group of 50 to 1,100. There is no need for family life. You can be closer to people you don't necessarily know. When might we be moving into this gray area, where society in general has become much more free and normal? [[The president calls.]] The timeline, especially from the time you had already vaccinated the future and the high - risk groups, what would it look like?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u62	A respectable president. I totally share that vision. A senator and I think it's clear and important, i.e. that we can imagine how these two tasks are related, the vaccinations and the preventative measures. It is also true. One senator says that our main objective in fighting the epidemic has been to preserve our lives and health and to make sure that our health - care system is in control. It follows that as vaccination takes place, it is exactly these factors that we will consider, i.e. when we are vaccinating our vulnerable groups and when we face a lower chance of getting infections by groups of Covid, and as a result there may be a lower strain on health care. It's all true. I also feel that way, like a dog. One senator noted that it is important that we say all we can about these things. We've had the luck, Icelanders, having a very good disease control center -- and I'm the exception of myself because I didn't get a good shot at splicing myself here. But I'm talking about the leadership of a psychiatrist who's been very successful, i.e. He has been wise and effective counseling. There's been some disagreements about it, or kind of always, but it's been that Iceland is in a really good place. We also enjoy a small amount of island life. We actually have a prerogative because we are also an informed democrat society with strong infrastructure and good health care. We have the preconceived ability to move rapidly and be able to receive information with an open mind. That will keep happening, and we need to remain very flexible in the way we react. However, we may need to be careful not only to be optimistic but also to be tenacious. [[The president calls.]] I think that's kind of the way I can answer it. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u63	President. The growth and persistence we have shown in Iceland in this epidemic is highly based on the fact that the information is being returned to the population. That was very good work at the beginning. A man saw how many were getting sick, how many were in intensive care. They made it very clear. Real - time surveillance, which gives you great confidence, gave you peace, and made you feel sorry for someone and sees where things are going. Then, in the fall, it was added. They set up a very cool graphic presentation of the latest DG and what limitation is today. The Discoball, the blue which was forbidden, bars and clubs, etc., because we know that according to all data, there is the best chance for transmission. Data on key risk factors were also observed. I'd like to ask a minister if she could get her people to set up what the vaccination movie looks like, i.e. In particular, at this point, we have already vaccinated all the most sensitive people, and as a result, we are much more likely to be in this gray area with regard to the new north. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So right at the end: Once you've been vaccinated, you've come with a resistance that's 90 to 95%. How is the freedom of such a group increased by individuals vaccinated? [[The president calls.]] For they are as a group with flocks immune.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u64	A respectable president. Because I only got one minute in the second spray, I'm gonna tell you what. A senator from yesterday's web of the Ministry of Health, a graphic presentation that is very good but is actually about the negotiations, i.e. from the time of the EU contract with the manufacturer, through phase three in testing, the contract of Iceland is signed, the European Medicines Agency is authorised, the European Medicines Agency is authorised, the product is available in Iceland and vaccination is initiated. Then we realize that we need to create a new time line that is about the start of vaccination and the completion of a plan. So that we can have such a clear plan, like a dog. A senator will talk about, and we need to know more about the quantity and timing necessary for us to have the basics. But I am certainly a spokesman for our doing so. It is of great importance in these subjects that the realization of our destiny, however, is as great as any possible in relation to all the uncertainty factors that we have.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u65	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for the information from the highest level. The health minister and the discussion today. It is important because the whole nation is waiting for this information. The last few months have been difficult, and we all look forward to entering the new year knowing that vaccination is on the way. In particular, I commend the government and the health minister for having handled matters well. It was good to hear a minister mention that a distribution and coordination plan was under way and that the staff were being trained. That was very convincing and good to hear. Also, the more people have mentioned that we are in negotiations with more than one and more than two companies. It's important. Most important, that adequate vaccine has been assured for Iceland. I'd like to ask the minister some questions that I think a lot of people, especially now during the winter, would like to get an answer to, i.e. whether or not a person receives a vaccination certificate after receiving the vaccine and will be more able to travel to and from other countries. Also, I would like to ask specifically about the North countries - because they have been in a very close partnership, e.g. with vaccine and some other purchases, and I know that health ministers and governments have had a lot of conversation - whether such vaccination cards could be considered at least for the North countries to ensure free flow of people between them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u66	President. First only with information on the web and how it is available, we can see that there can be living information about how fast the vaccination takes place, that we should be able to see it from day to day how fast it takes. As to a question, why? The senator on vaccinations and certificates, etc. electronic solutions are being checked. We expect this to enter an electronic environment and to continue our international relations in terms of mutual recognition of Witnesses. It's all going on, and I expect we'll continue to be successful in it, both in terms of the fact that you're not infected within 72 hours, which has sometimes been discussed as a previous screening on the border, and then the second. There's one way. We are looking at the Essum on a uniform certificate that could be used on a global scale, a digital, very modern solution. It is very conscious of the importance of the fact that as vaccinations and such results come forth among nations, it also increases international opening and communication, and leads to a reevaluation of borders. Of course, because of the different systems in many other ways, you are deeply concerned about Norwegian cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u67	V.E.G. President. Yes, those were satisfying answers, i.e. that this conversation is about how we can have mutual recognition between countries of vaccinations, especially between the Northern countries. It's important. In itself, I may have no further questions. But still, the highest. A minister has mentioned the site "Bolling." I haven't seen it myself. Coming, for example. □ What are some of the priorities involved, and how can you measure yourself in some way in your priorities and perhaps make plans for the next month?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u68	V.E.G. President. Only if everyone recognizes the yellow vaccination certificate we have, the old one. Of course, that will continue and matters in this regard too. But we are also looking for possible electronic solutions. Hv. A senator asks first of all for vaccinations. There is a directive from me to ten priority categories and in what order to expect people to be put first, while a psychiatrist has a degree of flexibility within that order. As early as yesterday, it was published how we would use these first 10,000 doses. That's how I went over here at first, first of all, it's our future people, and second, people in nursing homes and aging institutions. They will take priority, and we should reach that group with the first doses.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u69	A respectable president. V.E.G. Of course, a health minister knows best that no issue is more important for any Icelandic society than the introduction and early onset of vaccination. The second most important part of the vaccination will then change the time of vaccination, the number of doses being given, and when enough of the nation has been vaccinated so that we can look forward to the future. I asked the highest. HCPs on this in our last discussion of these matters, at which point there had been a discrepancy between the Commission's declaration and the Center for Disease Control. V.E.G. A health minister then said that she was looking for her first quarter, the first part of that period, but with reservations about uncertainty. Yesterday's news was, I think, a lot of frustration and anxiety, that we are talking about far less doses than anticipated. I think it's the highest. Minister of health to conduct the conversation with the people, the people, the businesses. The economy needs to be assured of these materials and know where the plan is. We'll see, for example. how the market responded at the time to hear about vaccination, a very positive reaction. At the same time, we see the reaction and frustration of yesterday's news. If this situation had lay ahead of us, i.e. Of course, that uncertainty about the extent of the amount would be so great if it had, in my mind, played a fundamental role in the economic activities we've been discussing in the autumn and in the last days. If vaccination persists in length, we will not be able to see resistance through spring or summer, but we will have the possibility of continuing to grow unemployment and failure in companies and households. We could be watching a horrible movie. Each day of this disease prevention operation is costing us economic and social cost, the cost of billions. My question to the highest. A minister is: Is there a framework for the economic impact of a longer delay in vaccination than we anticipated? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry, but I have to make comments to the misleading expression. It is not right to say that we are receiving fewer doses than we had anticipated. As I have previously concluded that in my answers, and in the past, there are contracts that allow us to have enough doses for Icelanders and for those we have to vaccinate. In my case, I've always had a specific notice for the uncertainty. It's something we just have to face and have to face all the time. We are gradually getting information about how the materials will be delivered to Iceland, and we are getting clear first information on the distribution to Iceland from one of the six products that we are dealing with. I say, a respectable president, the whole world is impatient, the whole world is impatient. But there's the uncertainty that we need to keep on enduring. Hv. A senator knows as much as I do that it's an impenetrable way to make plans that are holding onto so much uncertainty. However, we know and can be sure that in 2021, there will be a year when there will be no more preventative measures because we will be able to control the Covid-19 with vaccinations. At what rate this happens exactly and at what combination of vaccinations and preventative measures will be taken in order to determine this, we need more information. [[The president calls.]] And it is the challenge of all the world's nations to be patient with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u71	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The health minister answers. Of course, there is no one here to expect magic solutions, and my party has been clear enough to support the progress of all the subjects that can get us out of the terrible state of the nation, no demand for magic solutions. However, the claim is that, definitely, to the highest. Ministers, and the government, are both clear and realistic in answers. I don't think we're even more expensive or more expensive than difficult answers. I'm afraid they don't have to be here. What is the significance of 3,000 doses per week for the economic situation of the nation? What does it mean that distribution data are not sufficiently available? Taking into account the uncertainty, I think I need to make the Minister's requirement that they have that conversation with the nation and take action on the table. Are we possibly in a position where we are not given clear guidance on this? Because I think a minister is confirming it here in her answers that she does not have the answers. [[The president calls.]] Is it possible for us to establish that we will continue to have constant disease prevention measures until the fall, even in 2021? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u72	A respectable president. No, it's not the situation, it's like the cot. There must be a senator. As the discussion has taken place, increasing vaccinations will interfere with detoxification programs and government plans for preventing the use of preventative measures. Because of what? A senator is urging me to have a conversation with the nation, I shall not compromise. I've wanted to do so during this epidemic as soon as I've wanted to stress the fact that we listened to the advice of our best scientists about the pandemic itself. I must say, a respectable president, that I am very proud to be a member of a government that has taken as handsomely as it is in the economic impact of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u73	A respectable president. There have been new reports that vaccination may be delayed. At the same time, you may be thinking because we live on an island. Greenland's good, New Zealand's good, but we're in a delicate place today. We are in a fragile place because the virus came back into the country. I've come to the question of whether we can't see right now that we don't get into the country new variations, such as the memorization from Denmark or the highly infectious species from Europe. Can the minister make sure that we are at least in our position not to get the new variants through Keflavour Airport or abroad? If we had taken care of this, we'd be in a lot of trouble today. We'd have the theater open, we'd have an open restaurant, we'd have everything open, we'd be in great cases if we had. We need to do so now, considering the news, that this could last quite until the next fall. Then there's something else that I've been wondering about: We're probably getting three different types of vaccine, one of which is a whole new kind of Pfizer vaccine. I say, do people have a choice? Can they choose and say, "I don't want this vaccine, I want to see it?" Is it possible? How will this be handled? Now I can imagine that some people want the new material, and some want the old stuff. The question, of course, is, Which of these substances is most active? These are questions I'm wondering if the highest. Minister may answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u74	A respectable president. It was completely new when we began a double screen on the border and began to scan first, bequeath for five days, and then return to display. This has proved to be a very reasonable approach. We are trying to prevent the spread of infection into the country, as a number of infections have been detected during the screening of national borders for the first and second time. It's completely unrealistic to talk about shutting the country down, and I think it's never been a serious talk. We would likely be talking about not wanting our children to go home and study abroad, etc. Iceland is a natural country today, and we are in great communication between countries. We picked this way, and I think she was very sensible. Hv. A senator specifically asks about the different nature of these vaccines. There's more than three of them. We've got six different producers. Anything that concerns the nature of the materials, safety, storage, conditions, etc. will vary. What I'm stressing in that subject is that all information is on the table. It is then the task of a psychiatrist to prioritize groups into the series of vaccinations as the materials enter the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u75	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I agree with what was presented, but you see news on Keflavík Airport where most of us seem to be careful and follow the application procedures, and unfortunately there are always some who break the rules. We know this from experience. But I didn't get the answer if people could get the choice of a vaccine, whether they could refuse the first vaccine, and wait for the next vaccine. I read it recently, and it struck me a little bit, that the drug importers were complaining about the ministry having it all and that they were left behind. There would be someone in between, so there would be a danger that we would later be given the medication, and this would be a delay. I just want to know, is that right?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u76	A respectable president. Therefore, it is quick to say: No, it is not. We use the quickest ways in these substances, the fastest, and the safest ways for society. That's what matters. I'd like to answer that question. A senator who specifically asked if they could choose a vaccine. The answer is also no, it does not choose a vaccine. The characteristics of the material may differ, and some material may be more suitable for older people than others, etc. A professional view will be based on the priorities of each vaccine. In reality, the approach is that a disease - prevention doctor prior to vaccination will be prior to each person.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u77	A respectable president. I thank the President and the council for the opportunity to have a word with the council and to, to say, what am I supposed to say, give a status report on these issues that are going on full distance. All communities are waiting to learn about when and how much material comes to that country. A respectable president. But I have to say in this discussion that the key point is that Iceland has provided enough vaccine for all of us. That's a fact. The whole world wants everything right now. That is also a fact. And there is also a fact that is relevant in the context of the fact that the industrialized world, which is in charge of economic and inner structures, whether health, information, democracies, etc, has been criticized by the United Nations at such times. In view of our situation, we must be aware that the whole world is waiting, not just us, but we wait for every human child to be vaccinated with Covid-19. We're part of the overall picture. We have obligations to one another, but also to mankind's society. That's the way it is. Here we live under strong infrastructure, we live in good health systems, we enjoy information and a small and powerful community. But we also have an extraordinary flexibility, persistence and survival that we have used in the battle against Covid-19 so far, and we will continue to use in 2021, which will be the year when we succeed in the battle against the epidemic. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u78	A respectable president. I give an opinion on how to change the bill to legalize an athlete's carols for the pay expenses of a crowning virus epidemic, from a greater part of the health committee. The case was referred to the Committee between 2 and 3. The Commission reviewed that it is important to ensure that the management of most of the diverse labour contracts and contracts that the local athletes have fixed with those who are engaged in daily sports activities with their peers. The committee suggests a change designed to meet the wide range of needs of sports institutions. The changes were followed by the transfer of pay-related fees under the scope of the law. At the same time, 70% will be maximally removed from the contractor's house and maximum of the combs will be reduced from 500,000 k. every month for each payman or contractor at 400,000 dollars. The committee believes that such a change will bring little expense for a trust fund. The changes made will equalize the status of those who do sports work, whether employees or contractors. Sports companies will be able to get the same amount of cost regardless of recruitment. Clearly, many athletes and trainers for whom the bill is intended are involved in part - time work and should not be affected by the decrease in the number of employees. The Commission believes that by moving pay-related fees under the standard range of the bill and, despite the decrease in peaks, the resources will be more useful to athletes. The Committee has stated that by changing the bill to legalize unemployment insurance during the current council, employees living at home and spending their profits solely on the public market, with the sole objective of their approval, as well as other legislation that run unfavourable jobs made it possible to apply for partial improvements. Depending on that point, sports companies fall. In view of the above, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st After the 1st count, step 3. if you have a new number, as follows: pay expenses: pay costs are considered to be all kinds of pay and other terms at the time. Figure 1. Section 5. Law on Official Pays, No. 45/1987, plus a currency in a pension fund, up to a maximum of 11.5% of the population strain Section 3. Relations on related insurance and pension funds, No. 129/1997, up to 2% of the population strain in accordance with the current commitment agreement for additional insurance protection, cr. Count 2 and 9. The same law as the insurance bill, No. 113/1990. 2. At 6. a. Instead of the word "pay on the payroll" and up to 70% of the contractor's payments on the 1st case. come: pay expenses or contractors. b. Instead of a Š500,000 p.m., 2nd speech. Come on: 400,000 bucks. Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir writes this in advance that she intends to explain in a talk. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. Under the heading, Helga Helgadóttir Velgadótttir, chairman of the Committee, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Árnadóttir Kolbörnaddótttir, in advance, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdótir, Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnúsdo, Ólafur Gunnarsson, Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir, and Vilhjálmur of the Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir And a pilot, Ásmundur Friðriksson, for the presentation of these changes. I'm glad the board's in charge. A welfare committee saw the sun on this matter because, of course, it was urgent. So during the council, I made the adjustment that the pay - related fees depended on the support. There is no other choice. That's not the way it is. I just have to be glad that a majority of the committees finally saw the light and brought it here instead of agreeing to the people who were brought up by the one listed here. But better people are the best to live, and I'm happy for them. This is a very important issue, a support to the athletes at this time of Covid when the income crisis is complete. However, because of the nature of the work there is and the nature of the agreements made with those who practice sports and exercise and help, these contracts are not normal pay contracts or normal contracts that focus on full - time work and the like. Rather, they are frequently part - time jobs. Hence, they submit only to laws other than other activities and do not enter other government resources. So this is very positive.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u80	A respectable president. I have to come up briefly and celebrate the change that took place. A welfare committee handled the matter between the 2nd and 3rd. Although this may not be perfect, it has come a lot closer to what I think is reasonable in these factors. Perhaps I'd like to stress that this way is totally incapable of separating employees from contractors in support of sports companies, as the original bill expected. I am pleased to announce that a mutual understanding is within the council. I'm not going to do a technical application on 3rd. but just reiterate: It's a great improvement, and I thank the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u81	A respectable president. I agree that it is very important that this has been achieved with a measure of reconciliation and landing in order to meet the important work being done by the local sports companies, the young people's work. In fact, I have not yet received an explanation for what will happen to other societies who do as much of a vital work in this context, such as the Union of Icelandic Boy Scouts, the Boy Scout movement, which has an enormously powerful youth activity that actually follows the same laws as the sports movement with regard to employees and the effect on the work. The same really is true of the KFUM and KFUK work, the water forest and that. I know that these communities were having discussions with members of the council trying to meet their views. I hope there have been other ways of getting the solutions to the important work that took place there. It is of great importance when we look to young people in the country and to the National Youth Association in Iceland, that it is not only the sports movement and all the important work that follows, it is also taking place in many other fields. It is very important that we make sure that diversity is possible. We always look at it with the bigger picture in mind. We also need to face those who are not the largest and most powerful but who are equally important in this work. It is our luck to have such a powerful work as it turns out when, in the country, young and young people are often engaged in volunteer work and then driven by some employees who can follow it. Our success in this field will be late overrated, and we have responsibilities here at the Council to do well in this work. I hope, as I've had information on, without quite reaching the point, that a solution has been found and that it is made to the wishes I give to the youth and youth service we're solving here, i.e. in the elements involved in the sports industry and the teenage ministry there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u82	A respectable president. Because of the question why. Gunnarsson I'd like to make it very clear that there was a tremendous will for the committee, so I don't speak to the minister and the Ministry, to meet the budget mentioned here, society that only serves for the public good, and is not profit free. They had applied for these laws, but the law is based on a set order issued by the health minister for the completion and ban on exercise and competition. It is largely based on these laws. Of course, I'm not a lawyer, but the committee did everything she could to take these societies under that hat. Many routes were examined, and last night they were trying to improve the committee's opinion and make adjustments. It didn't work out, just because it doesn't apply as our best people, both lawyers in the Committee and the Ministry, have checked. Similarly, law - taught members of the committee have discussed these matters. Therefore, the commission was eager to find other ways for these communities and groups, Iceland's Youth Association, Boy Scouts, KFUM and KFUK, and others like that, including amateur theaters and other things; of course, I don't remember all of that on such short notice. No. 300 dealing with unemployment insurance, which has been here at the council, will take care of these companies and their activities and will save what will be saved to them. [[The president calls.]] There was a rich willingness to resolve the matter, and we did everything we could for them, but this is the result.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u83	A respectable president. This is not a political matter in itself or any subject of controversy here. I know that our minds are the same when it comes to this important work. I wanted to keep it up. I had heard that people had been looking at every possible way to take out the work we're talking about under this process. But it's just one way or another. I trust that men have achieved a comparable solution in other fields for these societies and that it turns out to be satisfactory. The important thing is that we keep this in mind in the future as we discuss these matters. I have no doubt that the committee has done what she has been able to do to meet their views.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u84	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. We who want to finish things quickly and rapidly here at the council often find it difficult to cross the thresholds and lines that may be invisible to us but are very visible. The activities of these associates hear e.g. More or less under the Ministry of Education, which is a ministry of no kind than we'll discuss here. It's one of the barriers. But we've had dealings with the Ministry of Education to seize these societies. There is money to receive it, and it falls under the aforementioned rules in the language of No. 300, unemployment insurance, which I talked about earlier, like the sports companies. Most of the sports business, i.e. The entire office accounts, the managers and other such, people who are not in a live sports match, hear e.g. not under these laws. They only apply to the racers and those who are out on the field training and training and competing. Others are only part-improved by the local company. I reiterate that, of course, our common wish is that these associates will be made as high as any possible in these difficult times, which, of course, set their mark on the sport movement as they do all others. We hope that by winding only winding sails, they will be better prepared when the whistle is whistled.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u85	Borist has received a letter from the Department of Social Affairs where the request is made to provide a written answer for the requested application. 151, about waiting for state diagnostic and counseling centre, from what point of view. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir The Year's Daughter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u86	A respectable president. As the U.S. Congress knows, the General and Education Committee appoints an annual subcommittee to review applications for the granting of citizens' rights by law. Applications and data are provided to the Commission following the pre-production of the Foreign Institute and the Committee received 133 applications at this time. This time they were unusually late. The Subcommittee considers it important that they handle well and emphasizes the careful treatment of candidates. Because of a narrow time frame for these actions now and circumstances, there is insufficient time for the Commission to review that number of applications in an appropriate way. In view of the above, the Subcommittee has decided to postpone the collection of a bill to legalize the citizens' rights that has been practiced before Christmas. The Commission has made sure that the continuation of the bill's recovery will not result in a change in the position of candidates during the trial and will conclude the Commission and provide a bill for the Council on this subject prior to February 1, 2021.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u87	Mr. President. I recommend a proposal for a hearing of approval for the continuation of General Assembly meetings according to Article 1. 23rd par. The constitution. The suggestion is as follows: The General concludes to agree that meetings will be postponed from December 18, 2020, or later, if necessary, to January 18, 2021. The motion is self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u88	Mr. President. The request for this request is requested by the secretary of the seas to provide a report on the SmPC of 20 of the largest commercial development companies who do not have hand-made fishing vessels. Seafood is one of the most important sources of Icelandic economy. The economic standing of the fishing industry has improved substantially over the past decade. There is evidence that their investment beyond the article itself has increased in a positive way to spread the risks of their peers, but it can easily lead to too much impact in the sense of reducing active competition in markets. We are small that it can have a profound effect, and with the information listed below, it can be shed light on the real state of affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u89	V.E.G. President. We vote on birth and parent stock. The foundation is very good, and we celebrate a 12-month extension. All along, however, we have said that we want more flexibility. The circumstances of families vary from time to time, sometimes being born for example. More than one child. We'll make a change of suggestions at 8. the bill in particular, which covers about 12 months to the baby, means that parents have the right to split them in the months they want. We trust parents.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u90	Mr. President. This is a major step in progress, extending birthworm and trying to increase equality in the country, but at this point my heart is deeply grieved because just before we started this meeting, it was found that the majority of the groups, the management groups, do not trust to secure and support in child abuse with infant babies, do not rely on child abuse with infants to obtain rights, so those children who live in such homes receive 12 months like other children. I am so distressed by this fact, and I intend to forward a message I received this morning from a battlefield about how things are really in our system because a restraining order is not really used to treat a child, even when a mother is holding a child in her arms.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u91	President. We vote for the social and child-friendly bill on maternity rights. Pirats and I have a short proposal for four, four, four, four divisions. There we make compromises in which freedom and the importance of family flexion and flexibility are viewed. On the other hand, we realize that we do not live in a void and are entering a situation in which women work in a job market. We propose this compromise proposal because we do not live in a perfect world. We would like to speak for perfect flexibility, but that would require a powerful economic motivation, and the greater part has not seen the reason to include them in the bill. But I encourage a body of Congress to look at this responsible stand that we offer to make adjustments in our lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u92	A respectable president. An entire year in a child's life is important, especially during the first few months of his life. We're making sure that we stay with parents for 12 months, so it's time to celebrate. We can also look to the future. We are taking important steps so that children of the future can take advantage of this when they reach that age. Perhaps that will be normal, and then we may be able to start talking about freedom and recovery in regard to the exchange. We're not there yet. We have to respect this exchange. Now I can go home and tell my children I have both sexes: You are as suitable parents in the eyes of the Allied Iceland. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u93	Mr. President. We vote on a case of enormous equality. We're extending the birthworm for 12 months. We are confirming the right of both parents to six months of maternity, and we are ensuring other legal improvements. This is truly a cause for rejoicing. For what was stated on the restraining order provided in the bill, it is reasonable to note that the majority of the object has proposed a modification protocol for the restraining order. But to try to make even more peace with this matter, I am in the middle of it and suggest that the matter be called between the 2nd and 3rd. to discuss it one more way to make peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u94	Mr. President. The birth serpent's increase is a huge step in progress. It's a social matter, it's a financial matter, and it's also an equal. By myself, I believe the exchange is the same. That is why I find it important to have the rights that both parents are loyal to during the six months, but it is also wise to allow exodus in six weeks. Of course, our next step should be to raise both the income roof and the so - called floor, which is what we naturally need first to obtain resistance in the job world and to ensure the funding of the feeding stocks fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u95	A respectable president. The birthal orbalund laws that have been in effect at about 20 years of age were set in Páll's time son Pétursson, then a social minister. The current government put it on its policy list to achieve a major increase in the birthworm system. We have in this ideal period increased payments for maternity, and we have also extended the birthworm for 12 months with the bill we have here. This work out in a way that the budget for a country's family goes up from 10 billion to 20 billion per year when these measures are fully implemented in the current government. This is the big deal. We're rebuilding the birthworm system. We're doubleing the payments that go to a child's family through this important system, and that makes me incredibly proud.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u96	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to be extending our maternity to 12 months. This important and, of course, change has been waited a long time for. When it comes to the exchange, you have to say there are contrasts. Pirat and I have tried to establish a responsible compromise by suggesting the exchange of four, four, four. Why? Because in a perfect world, we would want to see that parents themselves had the perfect choice of how to divide the months between them. However, it does not exist to make it possible for families to do so. There are no motivations, and as a result, it is not responsible at this time. Likewise, this rigid halve that the greater part does not provide for the benefit of families or children. It is not because it will not be useful to all families, which means that some children will be out of 12 months with their parents because of the inflexibleness of the system. There are especially women in low wages and men in low - paying classes who suffer from it. [[The president calls.]] So we propose a compromise proposal, and we invite the senators to accept it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u97	A respectable president. This is a lot of equality and progress and reminds us that we are on our way to greater equality. This is a great deal of justice for fathers, mothers, and children who receive more rights for increased and better association. On the other hand, we in the United States have some adjustments to the matter that we make, and I believe it is very important for a body of Congress to consider accepting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u98	Mr. President. In 2000, the Act on Birthorof, set up at the General Assembly, marked a turning point in the history of an equal struggle in Iceland and was a huge step for equality, perhaps one of the most important system changes we had made in behalf of that cause. Today, not only are we extending the ore to 12 months, which is of great importance to the prosperity of a children's family in Iceland but it is also taking steps to ensure an even greater potential of both parents to take part in raising their children in the early years. It is a huge equality issue, not only for women involved in a job market, but also for members of their male upbringing, a huge equality. Thus, it is an enormously good matter, and it is a joy to participate in matters that actually influence society's values in the right direction and that are positive for all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u99	A respectable president. I tried to keep track of the conversation yesterday. I listened to some of them this morning, as well as read a committee opinion and then participated in a discussion this morning on another subject. There were four committee opinions on this matter, adjustments in all of them, and one further adjustment in the fifth direction. The case was discussed here yesterday since. 9 o'clock in the evening. 20 minutes over 2. Clearly, the discussion is far too short to consider. I don't think it's a monopoly that they have to go over again in the new year. I'd also like to point out that I'm only a member of Porta's party this time, because I disagree with the rest of the council on one point of change and still agree with the other thing that, while I remember, is something we should have discussed much more. This shows how the economic factors of the situation affect the birthmarking of couples. All of this would have required more discussion. Now that I'm done with my time, I just described it as missing more discussion. A respectable president. I sincerely hope we take this matter back in the new year and continue our discussion on this important system because it has to work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We could've had a lot more conversation here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u100	A respectable president. We must not forget that the birthworm is about the child's affairs. The child is what matters. In this context, we need to realize that between 60% and 70% of the parents surveyed, including women, want more freedom to divide the time between them. What I find most seriously in this matter is if anyone will cancel his pregnancy because it cannot be done financially. Nobody lives on 83,000 taps. the month you are born with. It would shame us to have that amount of money so low. That's why I'd rather have $350,000, but I've put $190,000 in. The minimum, and I think it's only natural that nobody gets less than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u101	Mr. President. It's a joy to see this matter coming up to the Hall of Congress. It's a great deal and a long line in the big movie. Clearly, the transition has been under way, in the name of various selection freedoms. I support freedom of choice, but I only support it when it means real freedom, when rules on the market we're talking about become, so it's the real choice of those in the place to make decisions that are best for them. We don't live by those rules now, including. ... becauseofthedividation of the budget. We're going to make some adjustments that will raise both the roof and the floor. I know that in this room, there is not necessarily a fundamental difference in that matter. There's a disagreement on the priorities, whether this is the right time. Then I'd like to say, it's important to shop.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u102	A respectable president. Let us realize that the bill as it looks today and that most of the adjustments made do not make this issue equal. It'll make the position of equality worse if anything is wrong. The present - day relative birthorlofs divider and, as it will after this change, will be worse for women. They take a relatively longer birthmark than they do now. The only change in the whole case and all the existing adjustments is part of the Porta's decision to drop out of pay, so that, instead of 80% of the pay, everyone gets 100%. Then there is no need to make an economic decision to exchange orordain between parents. That's why I can support the four changes, four, four. If these economic changes cannot be approved behind the bill, the most damaging change is, in fact, five, two, in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u103	A respectable president. Here we are, as someone said, a beautiful paint in our hands. We're extending the birthworm for 12 months, and we're increasing equality in the labour market. The media believes that more needs to be done, and we are ready to continue on that journey. So I have to use this opportunity to say that I find it sad to see a suggestion from the Central Party for the exchange of twelve, zero, and particularly that the representative of the Central Party, which proposes the proposal to be the former head of the government action group and the body of the labour market on the pay equal rights of the sex, was sitting from 20133/42016, chairman of Iceland's credit fund of 2016 and former U.S.A. [[You don't want freedom?]] Does the Central Party feel that there is total equality in the labour market? The recommendation of the party involves this. I think it's sad. But, of course, I support the case because that's very good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u104	A respectable president. Here we are taking an excellent step in the prolongation of the birthworm for 12 months. How important it is to do better with children! It's important. Of course, there has been a lot of debate over the division of the mouth between parents, and opposition to equal exchanges is not a matter of opposition to fathers' responsibility for children and homes but of a degree of flexibility and consideration for different family types. A number of such comments have been made. But there is also a wide variety of freedoms. For 50 years, maternity was legally bound to women. There the role of women was established, and in it there is not much freedom. Hence, it was a vital step to set a month with the second parent and to promote very important equality. Still, there are still work to do. A major part of achieving equality is the availability of daycare and nursery after the holiday as well as the increase in pay and employment involvement. The fact is, children's relationship with fathers has been greatly strengthened after part of birthworm was tied to them. But there is still too great an attitude that this is the role of a woman. The way most things go today is fine because there are different families and different needs. That's how we get to, I think, the best place to go.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u105	Mr. President. The decision was to recall the changes made by this small issue involving the restraining order so that I will not waste any more time in it than I would have to present other Community changes in raising birth strength to all the most vulnerable groups, those outside the labour market and students. We have new proposals, along with that, to change the budget, so the sum is 70 million, and I think we can handle it to raise only 83,000 bucks. payment for those outside the labour market. In addition, in terms of minimum pay, we suggest that in the case of the person's minimum pay, not 80% of total income in the whole course of maternity will be passed, but in terms of minimum wage, and I think it would be a good message from the council to agree with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u106	A respectable president. The bill on birth and parentorof is a great thing and proves that Iceland is on top of equality. Economic growth and prosperity are more common in Iceland because of the radical changes we have made in the birthworm and the development of the high school program. As a result, there is a higher birth rate in Iceland than in many comparative countries. Land production is bigger in Iceland than in many control countries because of the high-profile value of women, and I say, "Congratulations Iceland with this amazing and radical bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u107	A respectable president. It's been quite informative and amazing to observe the discussions on this subject. Despite the general satisfaction of the case, I believe that there has been more conflict between what has happened in the past than in this matter. I must be glad that there seems to be a lot more of the senators here, the moaning more part, someone might say, for increasing the freedom of parents on these topics. I like that, and there's a lot of adjustments in that direction. You know, references to women's equality and status, I think I'm old-fashioned here, describing a certain swelling in the equality speech. After two decades of experience with these matters, this is still the case. Why not try other routes and allow your country's families to decide for themselves how they are born from birth? I will support changes in terms of greater freedom in that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u108	A respectable president. What a joy it is to come here and agree to a 12-month birthmark! It is an important and valuable step, yet there is a flash, and I think that the last speaker's words may highlight the great gap between classes here when it comes to equality. It's empty that mine knows to talk about space. It is empty that I know to talk about freedom in the absence of equality, and in the past 20 years, there is still a sexual difference in society. I'd like to give a witness. paritaprevir Pétur the late Blöndalur named, who, by permission of a president, said: ▪ In order for each individual's abilities to be fully useful to society, it is necessary to have full equality for the most qualified individual to be hired at all times. It's not today. Indiscriminateness between men and women is evident and must be corrected by any means necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u109	A respectable president. We welcome here another effective step in equality, where we lent the birthworm. As a result, Iceland is at the top of the World Economic Council list in a report published in December 2019. She was released for the 14th time. It assesses the performance of 153 countries. Iceland's in first place, and it's been in recent years. The independent party is proud to take part in yet another step, a class that has played a role in taking all these steps, either under his leadership or in sharing with other categories. We take this step proud today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u110	A respectable president. Here, the viewpoint of custody and freedom is addressed in the most debate - the arrangement for the months. We in the Central Party are glad that the bill will include 12 months of exchange between parents but, as we have noted, that the 12 months will be made free to parents, because it will always have the child's interests number one, two and three. We reject the fateism shown in the approach of much of the Committee. I would like to use this opportunity to encourage all freedom-sustaining members of this room to support the central Party's motion of change that goes under the name of twelve, zero replaced by the strange division of four and a half, four and a half, three that became the mother-in-law of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u111	Mr. President. - What's going on? Councilmen with increased freedom are interesting. Some, such as the chairman of the Cradle, don't feel that it's time and time for others, such as hell. paritaprevir The parties, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, find it tragic. That attitude, Mr. President, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u112	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunarsdótttir chose to discuss my character in his speech on the matter of birth and parentorof. It is to say that this is exactly the experience the senator listed, and I am grateful, who makes me make these adjustments because we trust parents and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u113	To ensure equality?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u114	A respectable president. I think we can be happy and content with the results that are being obtained here today. If I had wanted to go further, I feel that it's a plough, normal step in the wake of two decades of successful legislation that I dare take the step all the way and bring the parents right to their birthworm. I find it important in the context of reviewing that the success of Iceland in equality is no chance, no chance. Not only did it come over time but it is a result of action and progressive legalization. I heard words in this hall just before that there was a limit to equality. I think it describes complete swelling to be able to pass on equality, and I don't intend to participate in it, and really, absolutely impossible to see the reality of what it is. I think twelve, zero ideas would do as much for Iceland as the national game of ancient times that went 14:2. [[The president calls.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u115	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir "Saidur Á. Andersen said it was just a bunch of old larceny. I totally refuse. I'm just gonna turn down this lawsuit and point it out right now. A senator assumes that national production is higher in Iceland because the work of Icelandic women is the most important thing in the world. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Second, we have taken steps in building a school class that we feel envious of by other countries. So I firmly refuse that equality is an old veil. It's a big day.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u116	A respectable president. I have four children. I had them all before 2000. I had the freedom to stay at home with my children. My husband did not, at all. Therefore I stand here this day to stand on my feet for my son.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u117	A respectable president. We're here to vote on a complicated case. This is in its own way a very large family affair, labour market, child - care business, and equality. It's not a new system we're discussing here. We have a long story, and we have learned much from it. We have, for example. Learning that there are too little roofs on monthly payments in maternity vacations, and we can learn from this long experience that it is important to have an unsalvable month. Then we can work out exactly how we will divide them. But today I feel that we should be particularly proud to take the number of months to 12. That's very well done, and we're going to move on with the line we've been moving toward in this government during this ideal period despite the economic breakdown and despite the lack of financial support. It shows how much the government puts this issue on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u118	A respectable president. I advocate equality for the only reason that I believe in freedom. To me freedom involves the ability to exercise and to use one's talents on equal terms with other members of society. That is why I believe that this blessed society, especially the professional, but also fathers, mothers, and people in general, must realize that when women stop being free workers to raise children, the rest of them end up in society, whether they like it or not. That responsibility must be shouldered, and we need to do so together. That can mean all the sacrifices, natural. But if we are going to stick together in equal opportunities to use our freedom, as each person would like, I would agree that all of us should assume that parents are equal with their children. Then, of course, there are many exceptions and special circumstances that I would like to discuss and maybe end up talking to 3. Um... let's see. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I just wanted to come up and say that equality and freedom are two sides of the same coin.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u119	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with the viewpoint as a matter of course. Gunnarsson For the first time he came up here and talked about it, we would have needed a much longer and more thorough discussion here in the council hall before it came as far as it really was going to be. We can only see that from the currents of senators and Ministers coming here in a pita. The discussion would have had to be deepened. The nature of the matter according to this point, most of us agree here that equality is good; we agree that freedom and space for individuals and families are good. We just don't agree fully on how we arrive at that conclusion and how we come to that conclusion. The opening point of the bill we discuss here was largely the needs of the labour market or the reality of the work market and its approach to women. If a group is appointed, the composite of the group is a strong indication of what the outcome will be like. [[The president calls.]] The first step for me and Pirates would have been to have children's meals at the table, too. It wasn't done. [[The president calls.]] I repeat, more discussions about such important matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u120	A respectable president. It is a joy to take the big step of bringing birth to parents 12 months of age a bill. However, I am absolutely forbidden to understand how a few members of the council or individuals here, Section 63 of the Senate, are going to determine how parents will use them 12 months. They even aim to cause some parents not even to have enough money to spend all months because they cannot afford to go home; one parent cannot afford to go home, whether it is the mother or the father. It's likely going to hit the father. Is that not why parents can't benefit from the doubt themselves? Can they not have this birthday holiday? I'm not used to agree with the Central Party and Sigríður Á. Andersen, I can defend God. I would never have believed that I would stand gaping here and say exactly what I say here and now: This custody is absolutely the last black.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u121	Mr. President. Certainly, it is a good step today that we are taking, extending our birthmark. I believe we're missing a big chance if we don't agree to the proposal. Minister of Private Switch and I hope it will be done. There has been talk of fate, this has been about the interests of a child, and this has been a talk of freedom. The equal road has been very long and we still have too far to go. We should not miss any opportunity because, after all, the interests of children are best guaranteed by perfect equality in society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u122	And breast milk.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u123	In the long run, this equal responsibility - that of men and women - will mean everything if we are to reach it. So I urge all members of the council to accept equal division today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u124	A respectable president. We here discuss wonderful cases, prolongation of maternity, which in the second year is driven into a ditch just before Christmas. That's what I called Iceland record for. A bigger part of the welfare committee that last year, but the more part decided to improve Iceland's own record this year and direct the case to a perfect knot, this great deal. I'm just saying, like, the highest. President: I'm prepared to accept the exchange unchanged, as she came from the minister. It's based on reason, not on political horse purchases. In order to bite the head off the shame, or perhaps to try a world record in a drive-in, the commission then suggests that the birthworm will become a weapon in the hands of violent people by ignoring the tip of a dog. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir. Is it hard to imagine that violent people can use birthworm on their victims? I say no. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u125	A respectable president. It's a little interesting to see how different opinions are about such important issues, such as this. Surely, none of these equality issues have occurred in nothing. There is much work to be done to achieve what has already been legalized. We've discussed six issues in the council, all of which are in the process of increasing equality; the sexual affairs, the political administration of equality, and other issues under which they and their overall review of law. Then we're here dealing with the birthworm. All of them are the issues that support the equality of all genders. We're supposed to celebrate. We are not meant to be in holes about why and how to switch. Of course, the council has influenced the way the law goes from us. It's always been that way. There's nothing new about it. When we split it in our time, it was decided at the Council. That's what we're doing right now. [[The president calls.]] Truly, we should welcome such good things.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u126	Mr. President. Prolongation of maternity is a matter of progress for people in this country. When it is the same requirement for employers to hire a woman of childbearing age and a man of childbearing age, we can talk about total freedom. When the attitude is comparable to that of a man who takes his birthplace to care for his child and when a woman does, we can talk about full freedom. In the presence of day - care measures that take place from a 12-month maternity clinic, we can talk about full freedom. When equality is achieved, we can talk about full freedom. This project is there, and it's a work market, but it's also family business. And it outweighs the full management of the rights we are providing people in this country with the financial resources of people working in this country. That's why we need space. I'm proud we're extending our maternity. It's a huge case, and I support the conclusion of the greater part.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u127	Mr. President. Therefore, it should be welcomed that we are extending our maternity. First, though, the choice of parents will be free and free of the way they choose to switch between them when opportunities for economic independence are equal, after there is equal equality and equalness in the home, when there is equal status and equality in the labour market. Only then can we talk about a free choice. Until next time, it will never be free. In the meantime, we need to use the resources we can to make sure that both parents do what they have to do with the child.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u128	V.E.G. President. What has happened in this discussion, which is very rare here in this hall, is that everyone really has something to say. Of course, I believe my freedom is important. I'd prefer to see a little more choice than the rest of it. But this is an intermediary, and I think maybe most of us should be able to get together about it. I do not share the opinion that it will have any effect on the equality of the sexes in the labour market, although it will affect someone, two months or more. I don't think that's the point. I like the choice a little. I think of it primarily as the family's best interests, the whole thing. And who better to appreciate the interests of the family than the parents themselves?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u129	A respectable president. I wanted to come up here to talk about freedom of choice and then the debate of many people. Councilmen that there is no real choice, as is the situation today in equality. I just wanted to say that when the exchange is as rigid as it is being suggested, six, six, and then these six weeks, it's not a real choice for all families either. If we think of the children of immigrants, of men who are of a foreign background who have no choice of fostering their children who are not right - minded in Iceland, their children are at risk of becoming children of maternity vacations with at least one. One parent. If we talk about the busiest people where the father or mother may have a slightly higher income, but the other one is not a choice for them to suffer 20% of income losses and may even be at risk of losing their job if it is illegal. [[The president calls.]] Things aren't that black and white. They're talking about the reality of a job market. He's a lot of people. That's why we're making a little more flexibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u130	A respectable president. In itself, there is no big disagreement in this room, and many have a point. However, there is a difference in how we should give parents the opportunity to exchange the maternity. Let us not forget about that. The point is, we're getting this huge step. Mental - health was a poll in which two thirds of the parents voted by having their own authority on how they split it. The surgeon general recommended such a course, the midwives'society, and the childhood. These matters were discussed by experts. These are also experts. Or perhaps the parents are the best experts in their own affairs at the time. This is an advanced legal case that will lead us to the road. That's the main thing. I think after all, I'll agree with what. A senator who said in a speech last night or last night that the lawgiver can pave himself up at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u131	V.E.G. President. With this adjustment, we suggest that there is a common right of parents to vacations for 12 months and, in the same way, their right to divide them in a way that suits them, their family, and their child. We trust parents to be equal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u132	A respectable president. Now we are entering this process of a process of natural growth that has been the most heat. We make adjustments where parents and society receive answers and, like a dog, an answer. A senator came in just a minute ago. Call Psychologicalist. In much of the reports on this matter, there was a call for increased flexibility and greater freedom. We heard from the surgeon general, Psychological Protection, etc. that it would be important. I would like to point out that in these 20 years, from the fact that the original birthworm period was changed for the good, apparently also progress in the development of children and family and mental health, as well as the discussion of freedom and the fact that the work market is not always breathing into parents'neck language when it comes to making decisions within the home or the needs of the family. Our family has improved space. [[The president calls.]] I encourage councilmen and councilmen to vote with this motion because it reflects, clearly, a call from the community for four, four, four. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u133	A respectable president. Here we vote for a proposal, which according to the committee opinion, is the so - called four, four, four proposals. Technically, the adjustment proposal is six, six, two, handed, but let it lie in between parts. I think it's a very important form of change and support, especially in view of the fact that we, as we often would like to say on the days of the council here, should listen to the young people, listen to future generations, and those in the field. They are the ones who have spoken and who want confidence to take responsibility for the role they are taking, and to direct their family and the interests of their children, as best will be theirs. We've had tremendous success with the switch, three, three, three, so far. There is nothing to say that we will not succeed with the exchange of four, four, four. So I'm gonna back her up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u134	A respectable president. I would have thought that a government saying that the spectrum from right to left would have agreed on this suggestion when there would be a difference between the classes. Some want six, six, others want twelve, zero. The result could be about four, four, what we Pirats are about to contribute, responsible compromise because there is no way to improve the economic environment of parents. A decision will still be made on the basis of the parent's ability to accept the birthworm. Whether the parent takes the orc will still make a difference for the family's financial situation. It is not a real freedom of choice when we do not correct this economic impulse. In the meantime, a party of Pirata cannot speak for perfect freedom. But we propose this responsible compromise to make sure that there is no return to equality, as well as that there is more room for family control, to choose what is best for the child, because it is about what is in the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u135	A respectable president. I vote with increasing flexibility, along with increasing economic support to parents so that they can make a flexible decision. votes are made here, so that later in the vote, there will be a vote for the economic part of the proposal. If he's rejected, I'll also reject this change proposal and agree to the five, five, two adjustments as it is available in the bill. But because the vote is in this direction, I vote with the flexibility. I hope, of course, that people really want to be equal and think about the child's well - being. Of course, we'll vote for them with the economic motivation to create an equality and the basis for what is laid here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u136	A respectable president. Amazing but true, I vote against the proposal, because I believe that the job life in particular will not give parents the freedom we're talking about. If parents are not obliged to take the birthmark normally, I feel that it will be the women, mothers, who take the most or the whole time as little as the fathers are available. I think that's going to be the case. Despite the wonderful young generation and the fact that there are feminists, I simply don't believe that the time has come to make this room. According to this, I believe the economic criteria that we will vote for next is an enormous key that could have been of much greater importance in the discussion. I believe that it would have been more important than this point, the discussion would have been allowed to enjoy what it was supposed to do. [[The president calls.]] But again, I have finished my appointment, a respectable president, and I wait until the next vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u137	A respectable president. Here we are suggesting a so-called hysteria, i.e. that a feeding parent can take another month before birth, for the well - being of his child, and for his own. This is a recommendation by experts, the practice around us. Women are not expected to win after 36 weeks of pregnancy. They are not expected to cope with the side effects of pregnancy, especially during the previous month. There are no illnesses in most pregnant women but only side effects of pregnancy. As the situation is now, this is to be taken from the mother's special rights. In other words, she is to spend a month with her child because she is unable to walk with her child at work for the last month. [[The president calls.]] I don't think that's fair. A respectable president. I think it's right for us to admit how stressful it is to wear a child. I know that myself. Let's give women a month before we're born. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u138	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir made a good account of the help we now vote for. This is a very important thing. What has to be done is stop this sickening process of a healthy pregnancy. The one standing here has been behind four pregnancies. I think I can bring something to the table, and I can take an informed stand on this. It is not fair that women need to view themselves as ill and that society looks all over on pregnancy as an illness. It's important. On the other hand, I would have liked to see a full room when the discussion took place here yesterday. I would have wanted the case not to have been so late for this very important subject. On the other hand, we're in a firm position here, by permission of President, [[The president calls.]] We're going to fix problems by giving a mother's mouth so that a baby doesn't have to suffer for certain things. [[The president calls.]] But then we have a workforce problem again. So it just needs a lot deeper and more discussion. [[The president calls.]] Let us support the child, its needs, and the woman who carries it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u139	Mr. President. Yes, mothers should be supportive during the last few weeks of pregnancy. However, it was noted to the committee that if they take a rather sick vacation during the last four weeks, they will receive 100% of their pay, not 80% of their due time at birth. A conversation with the committee, doctors, and others found that it is very common for doctors to write out some form of certicates so that prospective mothers can go to Orlof at that time. In addition, it is stated that for them, financially they are better off going to a hospital for four weeks before birth, instead of giving birth to birth, because of this decrease in income.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u140	Not all of them have sick vacation rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u141	Mr. President. We hereby vote for some sort of compromise between the government parties on whether we will continue to take progressive steps toward the equality of the sexes, the equality of fathers to take birthworm, mothers' equality, the equality of women in the labour market. This is very important. I know there are many people, and parents are of all genders, but that's what I said. This is about everyone's equality for taking birthlofs because in some jobs it is not well seen that birthworm is being taken more than an earmark, and there is no chance, Mr. President, that 90% of the relevant months, as they are now, are new by women, by mothers. And what does that mean? 10% is new in men, due to negative workforce compression. I'm not well aware that they're going to the Orlof any longer than is necessary, so I'm not going to support this issue of the left green and forwarding party under the pressure of this very good bill. Minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u142	A respectable president. Certainly, I would have chosen that freedom would be more for parents to make decisions as to how they divide the situation between them. I don't want to lose sight of this phase. I support the modification proposal of the majority, the compromise in it, but I also bring it up, and I remind you that in the bill, there is a review principle. I think it's very important that we here will all agree that this will be a living document, that we'll be a little awake to this class, so we'll be prepared to make some adjustments to develop this so that it will be best for parents and children.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u143	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u144	He says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u145	I support this change. What I did to make an informed decision was to ask him why. Pirata member of the Committee, Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir, what would have been said to be better for the children? Compared to the bill lying on the table, the curve was two months. Improving your flexibility in such a situation would be better for your children. That's why I vote on this case. It's interesting to hear the figures that there are 10% men who use this flexibility. Perhaps it needs to bring solutions from somewhere else. It seems that it is better for children to have flexibility. It is also better for families who do not have this flexibility and who, as a result, can use the orc at their convenience. In my case, e.g. I was in a six - month vacation, and the woman in three was with our child. Then she went to school, and I had the baby. It may not be available everywhere to do this. But what was clearly stated on the committee was that considering the bill on the table, it is better for the children to have more flexibility. This proposal of the greater part is to increase this flexibility slightly. [[The president calls.]] I can't approach it any other way than it would be better for the children and vote with the proposal. [[So the Senator says yes?]] - Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u146	Mr. President. We have now proposed to make this free, motion of the Central Party that went out there to be twelve, zero. We've also suggested less than that. Now there is another suggestion that parents can give six weeks instead of one month. It's better, though. Six weeks is better than four weeks. Of course, I must support the suggestion, even though I had wanted to make this room easier, and I don't feel that there's much less freedom from the Independence Party when they have to go back for six weeks. But I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u147	Mr. President. That's a good talk we've got here. But what's the big picture? The big picture is that we are extending our birthfair to a total of 12 months, a matter of huge prosperity for children's families in Iceland. The big picture in the case we are now voted for is that six months each parent has an earmark of six delivered weeks. It is more correct to have an earmark for each parent than for the most extended population, with three months being earmarked for each parent. That's the system where I had three children and changed the worm in various ways, and it's why I've been able to do what I'm doing right now. It is an obstetrical in which both parents have a clearly defined right, yet they have a certain flexibility. I like this landing because it takes account of all these views. This is an enormously progressive situation for children in Iceland and for the breeds of equality. That's the big picture in the language we're doing here today. Although all the views presented here may be important, this is what counts most to the people in the country. [[The president calls.]] That's a good suggestion, and I'm saying yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u148	Mr. President. When we can talk about the equality between men and women and other sex in a workforce as high as possible. The minister of Þórdís Reykfjörð Kolbrún, The Smokedred Gylfadóttir, spoke of in the past, we can talk about freedom. And I agree with that. That's why I say no. I'd like to go further, and I'd like to make a suggestion. Minister of Social Affairs. I do this because there is the best future for all the children in this country that there is perfect equality here. Yeah, what's the big movie as the highest. Prime Minister spoke of? It is that we missed the opportunity to go even further, although this is certainly a good step, and likely because the independent party oppressed the other two governments in obedience. I'll lay over the red votes and votes of the left green and forwards and count together to see if we could have made this evener. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u149	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u150	He says no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u151	Mr. President. Eight. The bill is suggested that parents always get the right to their parents, six months each parent, and that they be allowed to hand over one month so that one parent can take seven and the other five months. Rather, this arrangement is based on careful research that has shown that caring for both parents is in the best interests of children during this crucial formative time. ASI, BSRB, and BHM presidents have noted that women are four to five times longer from work than men due to childbearing, and this is one reason why women have less salary than men and less potential careers, as well as the less pension rights to their employees. Section 8. unchanged in bill at the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs is better than this change. That's why I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u152	V.E.G. President. I say yes, although it's no secret that I would have wanted to see the larger steps toward increasing flexibility and freedom in the division of birthworm. The political reality is second. It is a good and noble goal to want to secure equality in the labour market, and that's what I support. On the other hand, I trust both people and business to work together, and I believe that it is essential that everyone coming will be trusted. I would have preferred a compromise of four, four, like four, like we discussed earlier. There are different circumstances, and there must be room that takes into account the individual's circumstances. The comments on this matter were clear, the majority came from young people, and the demand was almost unanimous and alleged. Young people want freedom and flexibility. We are to respect their wishes. An adjustment to a greater part of the welfare committee is a complete phase victory from the original set of events expected by the bill. But I reiterate that I would have liked to see much more space, much more freedom. There is a law of reexamination, and it is my faith and experience that it will support our view. We want to trust parents and employment to secure and strengthen equality. I have heard the views of prospective parents, and I will continue to fight for them with all my might while I sit at the great General Assembly. [[The Senator says?]] - Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u153	A respectable president. I want to reiterate that there is no such thing as flexibility or freedom in the absence of equality. I agree with it as the highest. Last night the prime minister said: "Justice ain't no pet project. We always have to keep our eyes on the ball. To be successful in equality, we need to endure using every opportunity we have to achieve perfect equality in Icelandic society. We're not there yet. I say no to this proposal, to the greater part of the committee, a respectable president, because I believe it is not just the media, but the horse weddings between the parties. I think she's returning from the bill as the highest. Department of Social Affairs, Minister of the Future Party, set out here at the outset. That's my suggestion, rather than the suggestion of the greater part.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u154	V.E.G. President. I second that suggestion. Of course, I would have liked to see much more freedom. I like to know about the revised law that's found in the bill. I think it's kind of necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u155	A respectable president. We're gonna talk a lot of good stuff here. As I said at the beginning of the vote, we are about 10 billion injections into the birthworm system, twice the size of the birthworm system in a time of the present government. Part of it is extending the birthworm for 12 months. It is of utmost importance to guide equality, and it was done in the bill presented here. This is also covered with the adjustment proposal under consideration. When we discuss these matters, we are taking an enormous step. Of course, all the discussions about unique elements of the bill are important. But the big thing is, we're taking a big step. We're making sure there's equality here. We are also ensuring the position of children in Icelandic society. With a good conscience, I support the adjustment that comes from the majority of the committees and say yes to them here at the council Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u156	A respectable president. We freedoves of the Central Party agree with the adjustment proposed here. But it's not because I love it. It's not because it's so good to me. It's better to be ashamed than the great custodyist that came out on the top of the bill. Ministers with a free exchange in two months of 12. Here, though, it is taking a step toward making three months of 12 free provision between parents. In the Middle Ages, our suggestion is being made that parents employ each of the 12 months in a way that is most convenient for the child. At the same time, the motion has been proposed to be four, four, i.e. that freedom is four months of 12. Then it's the worst option. The Senator says yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u157	A respectable president. When it comes to the decision of an economic prison - it may be said that - it is not a real choice. The adjustment form does not follow the liberating benefits necessary to make the flexibility possible so that it worked both for parents and children, so that equality could be achieved. For that reason, I say no to this proposal. They need the necessary essentials for flexibility to work, which is needed for this to be an equal proposal, so this is really for the child and for the family. That's why I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u158	V.E.G. President. Of course, I would have liked to have much more freedom to do this. I just want to make a little comment about it when you think of this as some equality thing. Just as it is when both parents have the same rights. It's equal. It has nothing to do with equalizing politicians with the way people use their rights. There's some misunderstanding in the discussion. This may be practical for the workforce, but there is nothing to do with equality. The big thing is, this is an increase of parental rights, that's the big deal. That's why we're supposed to celebrate. But for God's sake, don't be getting equal into it. [[Up front.]] This has nothing to do with it. It is true that both parents have the same rights. [[Up front.]] That we are controlling how people use their rights has nothing to do with equality. It is government and violence and aggression. [[Up front.]] But I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u159	A respectable president. I got a lot more on this. It was just a deal. If I had hired, all of this would have been free, as parents wish. Four, four, I thought that would be the conclusion, which was the final conclusion, seven and a half, four and a half. I think we'll just have to accept that. That's why I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u160	A respectable president. When my daughters were small, my spouse's interests were so great that I had the freedom to stay at home and stayed at home while they were growing up so much, except when I went to the store and the same. There's no doubt in my mind that this is the best thing I've ever done in my life. The best. I want us here at this meeting to contribute to the greater freedom of fathers. That's why I'd like to accept the same recommendation. Minister of Social Affairs. That's why I say to this adjustment: No.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u161	A respectable president. I'll come in here and say yes because I'm standing by what I'm writing. There is also a provision for these changes from us, and after two years there will be reviews of how this has worked out, and I am convinced that this will take place; even the exchange between parents. But after two years, we too have to fight for 18 months of maternity. At least that's where I'll be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u162	A respectable president. I fear that my discussion earlier in this discussion has not made it quite clear that I am truly happy for this long timely extension. I agree with the highest. Prime Minister that the big issue is that we are extending this period. It's been a long time, and, of course, it's great. But even if that's the big thing, sometimes it's that little things in the privacy of the home are just pretty big for each and every one, for each family. People need space and privacy to make those decisions, not control of the government, as the bill originally expected too much. On the other hand, I have to say something. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, says that all space in the right direction is positive. I'm gonna back it up, I'm gonna say yes, because our great suggestion was sadly dropped.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u163	Mr. President. This is a very important provision. Count 9. Provides expeditation or parental right to birth oorlofs. This is to be the six - month - long use of this earmark to the other parent if there is an absolute failure. Many details are stated in this directive, e.g. if you have a serious illness or an accident, if a parent dies, if a parent serves a penalties and so is what we have talked about today; if a parent is being put on a restraining order against his child. This is key. I suggested a change so that it would also be true if a restraining order was applied to the parent because infants are expected to be a part of the parent in the original series, so the approach to the child is rarely used during this lifetime. That's why it's so important that we bring in this change, that there's also a transfer warrant when it comes to a restraining order against the other parent. This matter has been called up before the 3rd district. [[The president calls.]] I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that there are other circumstances involved. [[The president calls.]] I hope we can get together on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u164	A respectable president. Count 9. In a number of cases, expeditation allows for either parent to take the maternity or for other reasons. As the senator knows about them, the greater part has brought back the adjustment at 3 mg. Count 9. He called it into the committee between discussions, and we will attempt to land on this matter in the treatment of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u165	Mr. President. I realize it's not a tradition here for you to talk about votes later, even though there may be many reasons why you should do so sometimes. But in Iceland it's a tradition for Christmas celebrations, and I'd like to use this opportunity to send one out to the Senate Hall. So if we put together the votes of the left green, the advance vote and the negative to the change in the memory of the object from then on, the number 32 comes out, which means it would have been a real possibility to make that proposal and accept the same recommendation. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u166	A respectable president. Here we suggest that having a child does not automatically result in the loss of income. We would like to eliminate this 20% decrease in the wages of people who are due to spend time with their child. Social benefits result when people see the benefits of having children, that they do not have a huge loss of income, that they do not involve a lack of income. The number of them is reducing, the workaholic hands, that cannot work. Really, it is for the benefit of the community that we make it possible for people to want to have children, to see that they do not suffer enormous financial losses in having children, but that the State is in support of people because it is economically practical to have children. But somehow we view this system as some kind of charity system that is supposed to limit people's income, impair them, cause people to lose their income just for being with their child, when we don't even have resources for parents to save their children, for the job market. [[The president calls.]] This proposal serves as an advantage to the labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u167	A respectable president. You see, it's the whole thing. The discussion has been primarily about the transition, for a time, instead of the capital and money, which is actually the real reason in the majority of cases for how a decision operation is within the home of a father'sort, a parentorof, etc. It's expensive to have a baby. We know most of the people here who have been in that situation. It's not fair and it's at least By no means will they encourage children, increase the number of Icelanders, increase the population, become so severely reduced by having children, and decrease the salary rate. This motion turns toward raising the floor of frequent living. The economic motivation has been lacking in the discussion. A knight can be struck here by claiming to be extending time, giving more time, but more money must also be given because there is a dominant aspect of this decision on the part of parents. I urge you to support this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u168	A respectable president. I think that if we had had enough time to discuss this matter, this point would have been the main point and what we would have been mainly arguing about. But thanks to the way the greater part has screwed up again, like the other part. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson went over all right today and yesterday -- or whether it was after midnight, I don't remember - we're not here to discuss the main points, which is what causes the parents'decisions that need to divide their maternity. It's financial. There are things like this. If we fix this, it may well be that, in time, things will improve enough in our culture, in our professional affairs, so that we can allow ourselves to be completely set free, that may be. First, though, we need to adjust these principles. Here it is. We can fix this right now. This is not the only thing that needs to be fixed, that's more, because I hope we talk about it again in the new year. [[The president calls.]] But I feel that this vote and unconcerned about this aspect is a mark of how little time we have had to discuss this matter this time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u169	President. Here's a suggestion that I made as fundamental to all this matter. Here is a suggestion for those who blow on the horns of freedom to risk the limits of the power of the Kingdom when parents enter the hysteria that they lose 20% of their income, which makes it a economic decision for a large percentage of the people whether they intend to use all the rights they have in maternity. By removing that obstacle, it is no longer a problem to think about money. So this is really the only suggestion that has anything to do with freedom in all of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u170	Mr. President. Wait a minute. Senators are well-respected. Christmas is coming, despite a little time - consuming. But here we are dealing with the floor so called, making sure that those of the lowest wage get the total amount of pay, that no less than a minimum wage in the country, that the pay will not go down to 351,000, the number of years, to make sure that we don't put children at risk of poverty, that we try to protect those who have the worst.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u171	A respectable president. Because we're now in votes about a series of changes that all face to rise roofs, rise floors, and extra rights, I wanted to come up here because it's not just evil together that the directors are on the red button in these suggestions. [[The point is, what is it?]] At the beginning of the season, when the government set out to rebuild the birthworm system, the government was eager to point out that there was no funding for it in financial, financial, and otherwise. In the history of this government, we have put 10 billion into the birthworm system on the basis of a year when action ends. Is there more to do? Yes, there is more to do. We all agree that this system needs to be enhanced. We're, however, making big financial contributions that go through the system. You can discuss the possibility of doing more, and that will likely be done in the years to come. But it's unfair to come up here and say that the government didn't do anything about these matters and that it's making suggestions like these evils alone. [[The president calls.]] [[You're killing her.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u172	Mr. President. I support real freedom of choice, not just in word. That is why I have set up a new proposal that, if approved, would be an important step in promoting real equality and the parents'real freedom of choice in taking birthworm. It is a simple suggestion that the maximum amount of payment from a feeding reserve will be raised from 600,000 k. of 800,000. It is based on the average total wage for full - time men. It would improve the position of all new parents, provide children with increased association with both parents, this would increase freedom, this would ensure freedom, this would have a positive effect on the labour market, and would help with the mass resistance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u173	A respectable president. I can agree that as the roof is elevated, it will have the effect. A senator pointed out. I'd like to point out, though, that about the middle of 2016, it was covered at 370,000 bucks. During 2020, in this government, it has been raised to 600,000. which is 230,000 K. increase and is part of the 10 billion annual activities agreed by the current government. Should we do more in time? Yes, we should. However, we do not succeed in this cycle because the 10 billion operations on the base of our year are aimed at raising the roof to 600,000 and extending the ore by three months. I'm proud of it. What may well be the problem? In time, a senator can come to agree to take further steps in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u174	A respectable president. Here we return to the case that this discussion should have been about, on a large scale, on the financial motivation, or on the rise of the roof. V.E.G. Justly, the prime minister came in here to say that the big matter was extended. The big thing isn't something special. If the big issue is longer, it must be based on the idea that that time will be used. If financial incentives, such as roof and floor, are not available, men are unlikely to use their right to form. Then the goal of equality is not reached by extending time, alone, that is, time that is not used. The discussion has been hidden and clearly directed in one direction, to this time change, to possible--no, I'm not going to accuse one or anyone. [[The president calls.]] We would have needed more discussion about economic motivation. They are what homes base their decision making on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u175	A respectable president. Here we are suggesting to raise the pay of those who work at $137,000. of 190,000. I think 190,000. are minimal during or at least one day. I don't understand the point of not doing this, because the person who works in 253/49% has for some reason less than half a working ratio and I'm sure he needs more than 137,000 dollars.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u176	A respectable president. Again, we have come to economic factors. We suggest that birth strength be increased. It is not acceptable for students to be able to have children and to experience negative desires about increasing the human race. This is an important financial aspect that should have been watched, and we're going here. I encourage members of Congress to deliver our proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u177	Mr. President. It is economically practical to increase the number of mankind. We need more children, we need more people. This is a small catalyst for raising birth levels to those outside the labour market from 83,000 k. every month to 100,000 Ks. in a month, and an increase in full - time students from 190,000 to 205,000 dollars. This is a very modest rise, Mr. President, and I suggest that the greater part consider supporting this group. We can.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u178	A respectable president. Just before yesterday's discussion, I went into the workforce's web and entered certain criteria. That's 80,341. Top of the right corner of the page is offered help. Surprised? How on earth are we supposed to let someone live at 80,341 bucks? the month you are born with? No, the government has solved this. They're going to turn it up to 83,000 bucks. It's got to fix things up. I say no. Let's move this up to 190,000 bucks, that's the minimum, the first step before we go up to 350,000 bucks. It's gonna cost you money. This is between 200 and 300 people. That's $2,3,300 million. K. Very few people. You're going to tell these people, "Don't have kids." You can't afford it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u179	Mr. President. The visit of the doctors to this case has been very limited until the end of this period after a representative of the Central Committee of the Management Board asked that the matter be called back to the committee. On the contrary, the chairman of the Committee has been misinformed. There were comments that made such a point that would make no sense simply to postpone the matter and to do it better. But that has not been done. The bill is here for votes. However, we in the Middle East have been in contact with Icelandic doctors for some time, who have expressed deep concern for this matter, and this adjustment is a reaction to their concerns. Those who reject this suggestion cannot argue that children are not being prevented from getting important health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u180	Mr. President. This adjustment implies that middle class members trust Icelandic parents in the well - being of their children. Of course, it is disappointing that we are alone in this regard. But there are times when we are alone about things that will come to light that we were right. This will also be the case in the following article and will be discussed in the discussion on the subject when it was called caustic. Named. It's untraced. It's not the right thing to do. This case would have had to be taken back, and it would have been better. This adjustment is a small step in trying to fix this matter, and it is disappointing that it will not be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u181	A respectable president. These wrong and barbaric statements must be corrected from that point of view. The middle class here speaks of the need for medical action to be avoided by infants who are not talking about the need for medical intervention. [[Up front.]] All the doctors; surgeon generals, Iceland's Medical Association, National Hospital experts refuse to do this. Yet you keep it up in a fight. This is a false statement. An absolute statement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u182	You're wrong about the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u183	Mr. President. Here we vote for a bill that may increase rights, perhaps not large groups, but a group that has suffered unnecessary and irreversible intervention in its bodies through unnecessary paediatric procedures. This bill does not prevent children from getting necessary medical care, as stated here. It is, in fact, ensuring the human rights of children who have been given unnecessary intervention for which there are no medical reasons, which are based on a long tradition, unfortunately. We're ensuring the rights of this group, and that's why I'm saying yes to this bill. This is a huge progress, and what has been said about this bill here at the conference hall is actually wrong. That's wrong. But I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u184	Mr. President. We're here to vote on important matters, important justice issues, human rights and freedom issues. I love the solidarity of the Generals in this matter, but there is no leaning, even though I specify especially three o'clock. Councilmen I believe deserve great honor. When we, me and my associates, arrived at the council in the fall of 2016, this was one of the cases in which we wanted to take action. Then we'll find out that the matter was in place, mainly because of our jobs. A senator and a chief. Minister of health, Svandís Svavarsdóttir. I also want to name Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, the highest. Prime Minister, who has special thanks for putting matters first. In the end, I'd like to say a little something. paritaprevir A Steinunn named Árnadóttir, who successfully led the matter along as a prominent member of a welfare committee. It is a privilege to have come to this matter, even if only as a sponsor. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u185	Mr. President. It's all about recycling. Now, people redefined what is necessary to maintain that necessary health care is not being prevented. V.E.G. While the prime minister's comments were made yesterday that vital medical care should not be prevented, it is repeated in this bill that describes what service is being prevented. It is a service that can have a significant impact on the lives of children and then as adults throughout their lives. But at the point. Senators have refused a sound form, Mr. President: ▪ Despite 2nd. if a child under the age of 12 is prescient to make a decision for permanent changes in the child's urinary and/or genital system if an appropriate specialist assessment has been made that surgery or other treatments have failed to improve the quality of life of the child. Councilmen said that measures that would improve the child's quality of life could be taken in ways that could be used by experts.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u186	Mr. President. What a happy and important milestone! We are here to validate that children born with nontypical sexual traits are entitled to physical immunity in relation to their gender characteristics and have the right to the most perfect health care that is available at any given time. This bill is an enormous requisite for a group that has not been granted immunity so far, but at the same time, it is prepared for those in need of needed medical care to receive it. I am so happy and happy to see what is good with regard to this matter here in the chamber. Congratulations, Icelandic society. We will be happy that we are all sorts of people, and we can be all kinds of people. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u187	A respectable president. First of all, I come up here to celebrate the fact that this case is now in port, this important human rights matter. I would like to thank you to the highest level. Ministers of Svandís Svavarsdóttir and Katrín's Árnadóttir, Jacob's, along with the judge of the case, why. Steinunn For a really good outside of the case and for having brought it here. That's really good. I may have to correct the incorrectations that have occurred since then. The members of the Central Party that some have claimed that it was here that children were being warned of the need for medical procedures, other than those of themselves who claim these false charges. I sat this meeting. I asked the doctors we specifically talked to if they thought that using the bill, they would prevent essential medical procedures on children. The answers were no, Mr. President, clear and clear, no. It's wrong. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. He didn't sit around for that meeting, either. He's wrong. This was specifically asked, and this is wrong. Fortunately, everyone disagrees with the media.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u188	Mr. President. Lucky for you. Our opposition to this bill is not about our opposition or prejudice against the fact that we can be all kinds of people. Our opposition turns to the fact that this bill involves problems that do not belong to it, problems that are not atypical sexual traits but with blemishes that need to be corrected. Hv. The head of the General and Education Committee can blow up here like 27 meters on Big Head. That doesn't change the fact that it's gone bad. That's why we're the middle-class people against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u189	A respectable president. I guess it's customary to address the president rather than some senators, but I'm wondering if a respectable president can deliver messages. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson. I want to say, children are not being prevented from getting important health care. I am saying that as a senator, honored according to some, who voted against his proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u190	Mr. President. That joyful event took place at the moment. A welfare committee yesterday and in the management section that they saw the light. In fact, they submitted my proposal to include pay-related fees in this case on the level of athletes but had the sense of calling the case into a committee in the meantime to adjust it so that pay paid fees are now sponsored by an athlete. This is for the better, of course, but it would have been much easier just to support my proposal yesterday and then it would have been done now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u191	Mr. President. It is a pleasure to be voted for a changed and improved bill in support of the sports movement. We are busy with discussions about the need to maintain and provide the basis for a strong response to a switch to Covid. Sport work is important, and there is evidence that it is also important in the economy. An important part of international sports is the success of Icelanders at various larger conventions that fill us with pride and increase our country's wealth. They then, in their own way, vomit all over the world. Away from the medals and statistics, practice sessions are beneficial and priceless for young people, upbuilding and mature. All of this is more and less work driven by self - resources, volunteer work, and funds, as is known. Covid slowed down and even turned it all off, hanging all over the channel. We need a strong fight here. Thus, the support now recognized is a life - saving ring and abstinent, and I say, of course, yes. And it's final.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u192	A respectable president. I'm glad we're finishing this bill. I want to thank you for your cooperation with what. The welfare committee. The bill has changed during the activities of the Committee that I believe are improving. This bill enables us to put our arms around our country's sports life, which plays a tremendous role, so that it can start off with a full weight when it gets better after the Covid epidemic. I'll say yes to this, and I'm glad we're doing this bill from the Council, in good terms and in good cooperation across the board.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u193	A respectable president. I'm gonna let myself in this pita at this time send greetings to the East of Sufjörður, where the situation is said to be most devastating. I believe that all of us feel warm affection for those who are dealing with the natural disasters there. I'm recommending a greater part of the Committee's budget for a five-dollar allowance this year. As goes on, the commission received a client at a meeting, as well as a representative of several advisers. These are truly unusual times, and hopefully the only time we have to do so many extra funds. But this is the fifth one in the year, which, of course, is the direct result of the epidemic. The report on the bill explains the use of the financial resources needed to reduce the need for budgetary funds. A core review has identified the need for a full reserve of existing acidifying resources before evaluating whether expenses will be required or not and if they can be taken into consideration. Most of the cost changes in the bill are due to the pandemic. These may be divided in half, due to the increase in the cost of the epidemic and, on the other hand, to the increased financial and social benefits of the pandemic. The total budget of this budget bill is about 65 billion and is about 6.5% increase from previously approved sources of the budget, and if the previous four budgeted elements are included, an increase in budgets is available in less than 17% of the year's budget. On page 18. 51 of the articles have a fine summary in a table that shows why the bill is offered and in the Committee's opinion, it is well summed up. The main spending teams are the income dropbacks, which are over 23 billion, and other counterweight measures, around 2 billion, which are the result of increasing rural development, and the same amount due to the temporary prolongation of income-related unemployment benefits. The share-back pathway and the pay of the environment have been re-evaluated, and it is clear that the processes have not been fully used according to their previous plans. Hence, this suggests a reduction of less than 14 billion because of it. Of the non-Covid-related expenditures, there are 5.5 billion due to reassessment of biofuel bonds and 2 billion due to the increase in rehabilitation rates. There have also been reassessments of drug costs, foreign medical services, and other sources of about 1.5 billion. Reevaluation of the payouts of pension leads to an increase of 1.4 billion. Other reasons for our roads are explained in the bill's report. As we reevaluate state funds for the current year, we can see, taking into account the change in the bill, that income loss of about 115 billion is expected and that the government's income will be nearly 800 billion or less than 13%. A budget increase of 149 billion is expected beyond budget. The nature of the case leads to a dramatic decrease in the year's survival compared to the originally anticipated one. The bill's report provides an overview that clearly shows the economic impact of the epidemic when the budget is compared to the current prospects. As noted, the changes are largely attributed to reactions to the economic impacts of the pandemic, and a greater proportion of the committees have responded in their committees to the budgetary bill by 2021. In addition, they are being explained in the section of this financial bill, which deals specifically with reevaluation of the year 2020. I'm only going through the changes proposed here, i.e. both in the bill itself when it was shown, and then the additions made by more than a proportion of the legal committees. The most extensive modifications are explained in the section entitled Changes proposed. They take only the remuneration of the budget as well as the sources in Article 5 and 6. ... abundant. The income management plan is not updated to make changes, but it returns to a reevaluation of views. The changes presented here will raise the annual budget for more than 5 billion, and there will also be a proposal for an increase of $336 million as a result of lost management income. The largest increase, less than 2 billion, is due to the change in size of the Homing and Managing Agency, but it does not affect the survival of a government fund where a corresponding rise is expected against the warrant. The land hospital receives 1.6 billion because of the cost of Covid, including for protective equipment, medicine, and equipment purchased by the pandemic. There is also over 1,200 million increase of funds due to funding to innovation companies where reimbursement for research and development costs will exceed the proposed programme. Then contributions are made in the field of culture and art to strengthen their business, for the loss of income is almost complete, as we know. Both are in the bill and in the addition to proposals, which include the National Theater, the Symphony Orchestra of Iceland, the National Museum, the National Museum, the National Museum, the World Museum, and others. There are about 60 billion of them. K. transfers due to loss of income feed organisations due to the effects of Covid-19. It is also meeting the real cost of the zoological contract. Here's 50 million. K. an increase to RUSE in addition to the 55 million in the bill. As has so many other factors, so has the pandemic. Less than 450 million are added to high school, mainly due to high school growth, and the same is true at college, with an increase in the rate of less than 500 million. In addition, 140 million are added. K. the transfer of funds from Iceland's agricultural university to its investment authority, but the school has been in significant investments over the year. It is, in fact, there. to discuss improvements at the school's clinic for smoking in Elfus. School has also made effort to renew instruments and equipment, but there was a considerable cumulative need. As a result, the school's investment contributions in October were negative by 90 million and are aimed at extending the post and meeting the scheduled investments for the remainder of the year. As discussed in the past, we know that the epidemic has been badly missed by culture, art, and sports and youth. This is where we do, for example. proposal 30 million. K. contributes to the missing centres of the collection. Gives more of the budget board to include the distribution. See Iceland's Museum of Arts that's been badly affected by this situation. As I said before, the Symphonic Orchestra gets 90 million because it's supposed to lose up to 250 million. K. Of course, though, there is a reduced cost, which also arises because of the situation, and this 90 billion is therefore needed. K. between the two to straighten out the business. Clearly, there is no room within the reserve to deal with this except to a small extent, as I mentioned at the outset that a Government Accounting pointed out that it needs to be done. As I mentioned earlier, contributions have been made to the Akureyri Society, about 20 million. At a time, and 50 million. K. To the City Theatre and Skaftfell in the Southland, 10 million get. At least the situation is said to be difficult in that area. There is a special support for the childhood society, 50 million. The aim is to ensure a professional youth service and a partner's operating ground, and this is part of 820 million. K. A team of sports and youth support. In other words, 300 million is expected. K. For the sake of continued professional sports work, there is a source of training for an athlete. As the people around the world know, health care has become a challenge to the country. This suggests an increase of nearly 1.6 billion to the hospital, as I did earlier, both due to the many costs of Covid, which includes reevaluation of the business. Here's a proposal for 246 million. K. due to the outbreak's loss of income at the Akureyri Hospital, where the number of measures could not be performed to shorten the planned waiting list, and because these measures have been specifically paid for. In other words, it affects government funds, but the budget of the Agency will remain unchanged. Nursing and rehabilitation services are also being contributed in this financial bill, more than 800 million, including The light gets 220 million. K. and more than 600 million are involved in the many costs of nursing and residence. A respectable president. The commission is detailed, and the bill is very clear. I have now explained the major changes to the fifth budget of the year and beyond what I have mentioned here, there are many suggestions in the bill, large and small, all of which are of great importance in the year we now live. I hope that all members of Congress will be responsible for the proposals later this afternoon when we vote for the votes, because they are all for the milder social and economic benefits of the epidemic and the greater costs it has made.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u194	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. There's one cashier in this bill who's surprised at my judgment, but that's a suggestion of some 418.8 billion. K. additional contributions to the costs of services to candidates for international protection. Only 19.1 million are in there because of the virus epidemic. If the bill is approved, the cost of the seminar party will be over 4.4 billion in 2020. In three years, or 2018, the cost was about 12 billion. The case was presented in the reply of the Minister of Justice to the inquiry here at the General Assembly. This request is special in view of the reduced number of global protection applications this year. The virus epidemic has been responsible for large amounts of air transport for months during the year. Nevertheless, it is requested that there be an increase in the lawsuit of over 400 million. K. This year, there are fewer applications for international protection and budgets for those who are sheltered, particularly in this year 3.2 billion. On October 1, the last 956 applications for international protection and cost of 2.4 billion. So there should be right leftovers to the seminary of over a million dollars. However, this is a request of some 400 million. K. One more time. I think this needs an explanation. We need to keep in mind that financial matters are now difficult to deal with, and the balance of the state's debt has become very bad. [[The president calls.]] Watch your step. A senator went over this a little? I don't quite understand why you're asking for an extra budget when there should be some rest from the category because of fewer applications for international protection during the year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u195	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. This, in itself, is very clear on page 22. 70 on the budget bill, and the Ministry of Justice came to our meeting and reviewed this proposal. Of course there are some things in there, even. changes due to recalculation of recalculation due to collective contract agreements, there's Covid cost contained, rent costs and rent expenses that have been higher. We know that there has been a need to get people under a fever; they may not have gone away, as expected. This has only been accompanied by a high - cost price relative to what was expected. In addition to everything we know, it is expected that the number will not be less than 90% of the people applying for protection in the previous year, that at the end of the year, the number will be comparable. I see the Central Party is going to make a suggestion here. This object has been remedied in terms of what it looks like. Senator on this. I agree with that, and I think that the reason why we've put extra money in this suit is even. to simplify and speed the treatment. This has always been the goal since the tide of refugees began to become rich. No one wants to wait long before reaching out. But I don't think I can explain any further to you why. Senator. I think it's very clear. This, of course, is all kinds of expenses that have been lost by Covid. Then there is the cost of rent, and as we know it, the cost of housing in the capital area is not particularly low.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u196	Madam President. I don't really agree with this explanation why. Senator. She mentioned the cost of Covid. He's down, he's 19 million. But there are 400 million who are asking for an additional charge this year, and the budget this year was 3.2 billion. That funds ought to have worked. And to bear the fact that houses are raising and other such things, they should only be in this budget. You can't tell that houses are raising around 300 million. I must say, Madam President, I think that answer is rather demeaning. It's clear that this group of paintings is only in the open. It is not possible to have a group of 3.2 billion and then come at the end of the year and ask for another 400 million when applications have dropped. Their numbers have decreased. It's just simple. There's something wrong with this system that needs to go over more detail. We're going to have this year's trip, in this state's debt status, to lay over every cent and what they're paying for. This is the high amount of money that she just needs a special opinion. The metal category has grown years from year to year, but this has reduced the number of applications and is only here and requesting another 400 million. This matter has to be handled exactly. We are here on a budget to supervise the arrangements of the government's budget. This is the amount for which there are very little explanations. There are some 19 million people in Covid, more houses. But she's never 300 million, Madam President. It's just that this case has to be considered better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u197	A respectable president. I just disagree. Senator. This article specifically shows that there are expected to be 90% of the population last year. So there is not much reduction. It is noted that most of the increase in rent and salary costs is expected. The cost of Covid is then expressed. There was a need for screening facilities, and a new work position and interview room was set up. This cost is identified. Of course, we can be sure that there is much or little money in this. Truly there is a lot of money in there. With this as if other things, it's always good to go over the whole group of lawsuits, and I think that's what they're doing all the time. I count at least that this is clear enough, and we don't think we need to go over it in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u198	Madam President. On behalf of the United States, I would like to send warm greetings to the people of Sufjörður at hard times. So I trust the government to support the people of that area in a handsome way if necessary, which seems to be the case. With the money, I'd like to ask you a question. A senator for the so-called Covid cost. For a year it is now said that all the Covid costs will be improved. We're getting the information from the budget board that it will be done about medical institutions. I trust that it will simply be done, that it is right. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: What about the cost of Covid that landed in nursing homes, nursing institutions? This is the last budget of the year, the fifth one in line. Is it absolutely certain that the cost of nursing homes due to Covid will be improved? You, too, about law enforcement. Is it added to the extra expenses she suffered from Covid? And what about individual people like FEE, Psychological Help, and others whose pressures have increased because of Covid? Then I'd also like to ask a few questions about my rural society. We'll see at the end of the budget that the rural society has more than 2 billion to provide financial resistance. I wondered, in view of the fact that our rural communities have told us that they lack 50 billion this year and the next: "How is it that we don't think of our community better? I know why. A senator is very aware of the value of rural society as an important link in his close-up service, and many rural societys are really bad because of the epidemic. That's why I feel that 2 billion in this budget is a drop in the ocean in view of the numbers we've heard from our rural communities themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u199	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, I think we're here to make up for some fallen Covid. I've had no other information than what. A senator as to this matter. I'm pretty sure that, unfortunately, we'll have more money in the coming year because it's not over yet. Clearly, more is yet to come, and this year will be over. Although the urgency of our times is now clear, something that needs to be considered can be revealed, but we have received the information that has been improved. That includes law enforcement. As shown on page 19. 68 of them are over 550 million. K. a donation to Covid costs and natural more than that, by the way, 155 million are going to the police. So this huge cost of law enforcement is being met. We have, too, like a whale. A senator knows, put an AU and more sources on several budgets to try to respond to the cost of Covid. Of course, with regard to our rural society, we know that discussion, and we agree that it is the key link in the community and community care. There are conversations about how to deal with things, and I trust they will continue. Of course, such things as social services, etc., have been added not only to this but also to other things. ... thisis trying to fix. There is also the fact that despite all of this, these 50 billion dollars will never be completely compensated for their communities. They take on such costs as ours, as the rest of the administrative department.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u200	Madam President. I'm here recommending the Committee's Section 1 and two adjustments that I'll take into consideration afterwards. As we have seen, this year is now the fifth time in allowances. They give evidence that the nation's preparation has been severely administered because of the virus epidemic and is not yet at the end of it. As we know, financial contributions are not meant to cover new projects, increased business or management halls, or government funding. Expenditures must be unexpected or unpredictable. That's the main theme when funding are submitted. In accordance with official financial legislation, proposals for increased financial resources should be made on next year's budget. I have earlier pointed out this in a talk and in a publication. The bill shows that the government continues to finance contributions that do not belong there under official financial laws. The law shows that the aim is to plan budgets that are accurate, not requiring financial support. This year it is as if we all know very unusual and unprecedented. So the aim of the law has not been accomplished. Let's hope there's no more budget for the coming year. It is very important that funding be used in accordance with the laws so that it is merely financed by unexpected and unpredictable events which cannot be handled in another way, e.g. by means of provision or provision of reserves. I stress that the above goals of a budget are respected in the future. It's part of business management. These extras are going to make a substantial increase in the debt of the state, and financial resources are increasing at 2nd. about 5 billion. Of these, 1.8 billion are due to the change in production of the Homing and Managing Agency. Total but new and increased expenditures in the bill 65.1 billion dollars. The bill defines it as a factor of 28.7 billion for the viral epidemic, 40 billion for the viral epidemic, and 9.9 billion for the rest of the expenses. Reassessment of previous counter-improvement measures leads to a reduction of 13.6 billion. The cost of loss to the operator because of the virus epidemic is only 23.3 billion and the cost of employment is 29.5 billion, which is a substantial amount and is to work hard to gain the unemployment that is a national disaster. In this regard, we do well to consider predicting economic growth and unemployment. The latest projections are predicted by the Federal Bank from November 1 in the winter. It is important, both in unemployment and in economic growth, and it is darker than the Haguen project's project since October. It is clear that as it turns out, we may see higher figures in the case of unemployment. The largest sources in this bill are due to increased unemployment, as previously stated. It is important to be guided by these predictions. The late bank assumes that unemployment will exceed 8% in 2021. This has a significant effect on the income part of the state budget and then on the spending side due to the pay of unemployment. Expenditures due to the calculated growth of Pension bonds from budgets for 2020 are to be covered, except for 5.5 billion dollars. and since this is not the first time that major expenditures occur, it is reasonable to examine whether these spendings should be carefully determined beyond this point so that there may be no need for extra funds in the budgets for this. The bill shows that the increase in interest of the virus epidemic is 1.5 billion. Clearly, because of a huge increase in debt, there is a large increase in the interest rate of government funds. In that case, borrowing is expected to increase as a result of an increase in debt and to increase in debt. This, of course, is a concern, Madam President. As we live in our main competitive countries, we need a much higher proportion of government income to cover interest costs in this country than in abroad. As a result, Iceland's taxes either have to be higher than those of our controlled countries or our state funds to spend less money on the combination. This is a concern when you look forward to the future. It is very important that the state's budget be handled as cautiously as possible in debt as it has been shown in stories, including the following: When co-administered, the risk was increased. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, the vice president of the Fundament Committee, said that we have reached an extreme limit in our debt. It is necessary to ensure that nationalisations will not be placed in this position that there is a need to raise taxes in order to recover the government's budget and that there is no need for major cuts to achieve the need for sustainable development. This would take a heavy toll on the public's standard of living and the operating of an enterprise on the land. I'm surprised by one of the fees in the bill, as I mentioned in antiquated terms, and it's a suggestion of about 41.8 million. K. additional contributions to the costs of services to candidates for international protection. Only 19.1 billion. K. is because of the virus epidemic. If the bill is approved, the cost of the seminar party will be over 4.4 billion. in 2020. In three years, or since 2018, the cost has taken up about 12 billion dollars. This is shown in the reply of the Minister of Justice to a inquiry at the General Assembly. In view of the reduction in global protection applications this year, the question is special. The virus epidemic has been responsible for large amounts of air transport for months. Nevertheless, a court order of over 400 million is requested to be raised. K. I repeat, only 19 million are due to the virus epidemic. The subject of refugees and other immigrants has the greatest issues facing the nations. Importors in Iceland are marked by the inadequacies of the administrations to handle applications within adequate time periods. Has this resulted in growing expenses for the state's budget to the lawsuit that has followed the law of power growth? In some cases, they wait for a decision to arrive for years. That's a lot of pressure on people who are looking here. At the same time, this fact promotes unfounded applications. Such applications are particularly directed to countries where postponement options are highest. A chain of harmful events, especially for those most in need of help. In Iceland, attendance has increased rapidly in recent years as they have declined in many neighboring countries. In Iceland, most of the population of all the northern countries are now infested with takeoffs. Last year there were five times as many applications in Iceland as in the population in Denmark and Norway. The Icelandic government has to take control of the land's activities in refugee and immigrants. Ella continues a chain reaction beyond the control of 350,000 people. More and more people will start with unrealistic expectations and, in many cases, pay from different sheephouses that transport people professionally for getting their way. The chain reaction continues. The lawsuit has serious flaws. It promotes this trend, takes little account of reality, and does not tend to direct the help to those who need it most. However, laws and regulations that have been worked and established must also be adhered to. It was not for good reason. According to it, the applicant's first concern is to be settled in the European country. After the United States was removed from it, the country first became the destination of those who do not have the right to international protection. Why would men follow the rules if Iceland advertises as a country that overlooks them? A simple and rapid procedure for application is required to improve the effectiveness and shorten the duration of the treatment in the case category. The independent party has been involved in its research for many years. It seems to lack necessary firmness and has failed to deal with the problem. The management board is unable to provide applications within adequate time, and direct costs for the forward of trust seekers are increasing rapidly. This year the taxpayers cost 4.4 billion dollars. and rising rapidly. The cost of silence is indirect. At a meeting of legal committees with representatives of the Ministry of Justice in the context of work, it was stated that Iceland has the weakest legislation of all European countries when it comes to the affairs of the trustees and gives them the best service. It is worth considering that as the country has been closed for nearly months because of the viral epidemic, the number of applications for global protection has been virtually zero. At the same time, the decrease has been up to 70% in neighboring lands. Hv. A senator and producer of this bill, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, said just before that the number of people would probably be about 90% of what he was last year. The application for international protection in this country has now become a pair of people with large nations, such as Sweden. Everyone sees that this will not go away because of the continuing increase in expenses to the jury and the small nation. According to the United Nations Refugee Fund (UNSRWA), the cost of any hospice comes to the West to help at least 10◯12 people in their country of origin. It is up to us to assist the needy along the way of prisoners taking care of the small nation. The welcome systems of those seeking refuge should be prevented from being abused by misinformation and unfounded applications. Indeed, those whom we need to help will suffer. Iceland has not followed the example of Danmerk and Norway, and it has not been published a strict non - foreign rule because there are alien languages in Iceland, including those in the United States. due to lack of policy, inadequate management and legalization at taxpayers' expense. At the political scene, it is not enough to escape the signals of the state because of the fear of a loud smaller part that would be heard in if everyone does not get an asylum here. The Central Party has already proposed a synonym, in which the General concluded to hide the Minister of Justice to deliver a bill of change for foreigners whose objective is to suppress the spending of the state funds to the jury and to increase efficiency in the treatment of judicial matters. It states that the bill will be submitted no later than March 1, 2021, in order to legalize needed changes before the end of the council. Emphasis will be made on the aim to ensure that the decision-making period for the maintenance application will be given material treatment to a maximum of 48 hours and that the result of a material trial is within six months. This year, as mentioned, there are fewer candidates for international protection than the previous years, and this is caused by the virus epidemic. The decrease is much smaller in this country, showing that the group of paintings is out of control. It will not be easy to place extra money on the jury in view of the reduction in the number of candidates, as I mentioned in counterconsistencies. Madam President. It takes interest in funding from a joint fund of the people of the country, especially when Iceland has been introduced into the public budget, and the media is moving a new proposal for this bill to propose an additional budget of 4,80.8 million. K. to the jury is out of the question. This has its natural explanation, since candidates have declined. They were 618 now on December 1 and 800 last year. There's a decrease. I remind you that for this amount, 419 million. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. 1,100 refugees. In 2018, 800 inmates arrived, with a cost of 3.5 billion. In 2019 they were 867, and the cost was just about 3.5 billion. This year, December 1st, 618 inmates have come here, and the cost is about 2.5 billion. However, the budget is 3.2 billion this year in this category, so, under any circumstances, there is going to be some money to be left over for this category, but it is not. They're asking about 400 million here. K. In addition, this requires explanation. Madam President. I'm just going to step back to a chapter of my committee party bearing the title topic "Norrent of budgets. " As I explained at the outset, it can be seen in the bill that the government continues to finance contributions that do not belong there, according to official financial laws. If I mention a few of them, it is clear that there is a lack of transparency in this regard. There are much better and more specific matters to be explained. There's a proposal for 20 million dollars. K. to the Ministry of Presidency for the cost of the viral epidemic. There is no article, however, on the basis of what this cost is. A proposal is made about 29 million. K. increase of financial resources to the Ministry of State in the case of premeditated personnel in the European Council of 2022/2023 and then other special projects related to it. It's a classic budget request that belongs in the budget bill, but not in the bill for financial support. There is no surprise or unforeseen in these expenses. They knew exactly when the precociousness was involved in Iceland. They had plenty of time to ask for money. The bill has the authority to buy possessions. In fact, the house of a group of lakes, a particular hotel, specifically mentioned, is intended for a Lake Earth park, and there is talk about the purchases. I can't see it's an extra. There is nothing unexpected or unexpected in this matter. It's a real estate deal. It's a piece of work to be in. Every year, we have discussed at the General Assembly that it is being infiltrated into financial products, financial bills, and expenses that do not belong to them, but it appears that there is never any creation in the elimination of this very bad habit. The bill suggests some 260 million. K. an increase in payment warrants to meet the payrooms due to renovation of institutions. This request needs to be explained more fully, for the next year's transfer to the payroom, under government law. If this is not a Covid issue, this should not be determined in this way. Madam President. I also recommend the second adjustment proposal, but it's a sign of the State Radio. The majority of the shares have a new proposal to add 50 million. K. in the State Radio, which is very special because this institution receives approximately 5,000 million annually from taxpayers. It doesn't seem enough, and it also takes 2,000 million. K. In addition to the advertising market, they take away from their private media. Not only so, but she also picks up money from the back door from the government fund and gets reimbursement for filmmaking here and goes on to add another 50 million. I think it's just getting nice at this facility for all of us Americans. [[The point is: Yes, I agree.]] But the Central Party suggests a change in these increases to 50 million. K. does not exist. Finally, Madam President, the government laws on public financial matters show that financial contributions are to be virtually no more. Even though the five cases needed to be taken this year are unique, it must be viewed in the light of the great economic breakdown that has struck the nation because of the virus epidemic. But it's my hope, and that's my final statement, that it will succeed as soon as possible to achieve the goal of the law that money law is almost history where reserves are to be dealt with unexpected upsets.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u201	Madam President. I'm never going to talk more brief about financial matters. We've been discussing this up and down and down, funding, financial plans, financial contributions. I'll try not to repeat myself, though sometimes it is necessary. This is the fifth sum of money in a very unusual year. I never remember so many sheep. I think that in itself, there were never so many sheep in the world approved. It describes conditions that confront the nation and the unprecedented situation of the economy. It's nice to break this money up a little bit. Of course, he is expected to cover unexpected expenses, and unexpected expenses have been abundant this year. This amount of money is 65 billion dollars. and with bigger sheepfolds that have arrived. It is good to remember that half of this amount is due to unemployment benefits. Of course, people have the right to make unemployment. If there is unemployment, the total unemployment level will also be appreciated. So it is a mirror on the scene. We have over 20,000 people on unemployment record. We've never seen that high unemployment rates, at least. not for a long time. Of course, it is this 100 - year - old crisis that we face. Half the money is unemployment, one-third is the income dropbacks we support in the United States. I just want to remind you that we suggested it right away in April to introduce such a income dropback. Sadly, that proposal was taken off the board, as it were, of almost all our suggestions. It's a pleasure to have you here. We have supported all practical suggestions from the government, whether it's income dropbacks, lockbacks, kickbacks, whatever it's called. We fully appreciate the problem in Icelandic society, in companies, and especially in those who have lost their jobs. 80% of the total budget is due to the two measures. It's unemployment and income crisis levels. Then there is the satisfaction of improving the cost of Covid so - called clinics. There are many health institutions and other institutions who have promised that the cost due to Covid should be added to the budget. We received the information on the General Fundament Committee that this was done in health institutions, and I assume it was done with other government institutions and nursing homes, many of which are private institutions. We need to realize that many institutions have been funded by Covid, not just by health institutions, but by nursing homes, by law, and then by members of a community. We need to take a look at AU, a mental - health organization. These are all important links in our society, especially in times of emergency. I don't think we should forget these agents who have an enormously unselfish and necessary business in our society, especially when people feel unwell or are dealing with such diseases as feelings of distress or addiction. In my objection to the authority of the case, I concluded that there was a very, very intense proposal for funding for the local community. There are more than 2 billion of them, but rural communities have been calling after 50 billion, actually this year and the next year. The problem of rural society is strong and is a special reason to reiterate my concern about my rural society, which has this close - up service and does not have the authority to limit favorable loans or taxation privileges. We need to get a little better to the local community in this regard. Many senators in this hall have strong feelings for the rural community. Some senators are former platoon leaders. It should therefore be slow to understand the problem of rural society. I'm not going to give my long speech about the lack of further injections in investment campaigns, innovations, or environment. I've talked about it all over again. I'm just gonna do this a little bit, I'm almost done. These aren't the big numbers, but I'm going to tell you that we're adding 55 million. K. ... fortheU.S.S.S.S.S.R. I'm delighted, but in that relationship, I remind you that next year, the Kingdom News is about to land in 160 million. K. surgery due to the modified collection ratio as it is known. I didn't feel that the explanation we received on the Committee was that we were being reduced the collection rate, causing RUS to receive 160 million. K. It's less next year than it's gonna get. That's what worries me, especially since the Kingdom Radio is a huge part of the world, not just in a pandemic season, but always. It seemed odd to me that we were not ready to make up for it. But now I'm in the other subject, which will be on the afternoon. The city theater gets 50 million, I just flaunt it. It's a pleasure, but their charge was 60 million. I cannot quite understand why the committee was not prepared to meet the city theater's financial needs. It's 10 million and we're not going to blow it off. Finally, I'd like to make it clear that I'm particularly concerned about the status of a individual relief organization. These are not the big numbers, but we're getting information on how a relief organization, and especially the food distribution organization - think of, food distribution - has never experienced such an application in the ministry. I know something had been put into this organization, but I think we need to do better in this regard, whether it came into the budget or the budget. Of course, there is nothing more tragic than knowing that there are people in line waiting for Christmas dinner. We're not supposed to be such a community. And with 1,000 billion of us playing, as this hall has, we can afford to meet this organization perfectly. Of course, we have to face those who are in the terrible situation of suffering poverty in Icelandic society. Poverty is not some physical nature, just not at all. Poverty can be a result of the system we maintain here in this room, the tax system, the social security system, etc. It is tragic, and, of course, all members of the Parliament agree that some 6,000 children need poverty. Much of the poorer and the old citizens experience poverty in our country. We are the tenth richest country in the world, remember that. We've got some options to deal with everyone. I know it's the will to add, but it's better if it's done. These groups are disgruntled and disgruntled throughout the terms of the year. We must be doing something wrong if every year a harsh statement comes from the Micronetic Union and from the older citizens' organization that we should do better. It is not natural to think that these groups are unhappy. Why can't we just meet these groups in a more handsome way than is here? We in the United States have repeatedly called for it, and other classes have likewise done so, hasn't they? paritaprevir Sæland hareland, including, and in the head of the states, that older citizens are not left behind in terms of what other groups are getting under the biography contracts. The 15,750. ... whichtheadvertitionof senior citizens and the National Association of older citizens have given in the first place, it's so obvious that we should do this, but I think the greater part has made that recommendation three or four times from three or four categories. In the United States, the Continent receives the final opportunity to support our proposal not to leave the elderly when it comes to these better things. What kind of message is it to 45,000 older citizens that they should not get as much an increase as other groups received under so - called biographies? It's not a high number, it's 3 billion. If we were to take this step later today, we wouldn't see the impact on water. Everyone could be very proud of going to Christmas. Sadly, though, my experience tells me that the suggestion will be made. But who knows? This is our final attempt to improve the budget. You never know, miracles happen, and especially at Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u202	A respectable president. I thank the speakers who have come before me for the fundraiser for good talks. I'll tell you what. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson: Optimism and smile save the day, but this time, in terms of some of our good changes to the budget, I think the answer will be no, unfortunately. In this case, I don't believe in miracles. A group of people has four adjustments to their budgets. We are, for example. to suggest that the conduct, company of prisoners, and other amateurs of prison and correction receive the 20 million that the Society requested. Organizations take care of interest care of a peripheralized group that is subject to much prejudice in the community and is under great pressure. The Society protects their rights and welcomes those who get out of prisons. They often need resources when they come into the community to adjust, and many of them have nowhere to go, no employment, and nothing to disappear. A 15 - year stand and largely voluntary work have been done, and in very rare cases the company has been entitled to some centenarian from the government and the government. Nor only the prisoners'positions but also their children and caregivers, their parents, and their spouses. Stands requested that one employee be hired for a full - time job. The Society is called 24 hours a day to ask for help, relief, and even the Ministry has sought help. That is why it is a complete mystery to me not to give this money when we are talking about 20 million. K. in the big context. For example, I'm going to tell you that it was no problem to extend 120 million to Merro in a hairy search without any idea of how many ships there are and how hairy they will be and what is behind 120 million. K. That's one hell of a thing. There's only 120 million and boom, no problem. But I would have thought that the fishing costs, as I had understood it, would be so rift in the opinion of many here that they should be able to live at the expense of the article, whether it was research or not. So you cannot help but wonder who should go for a hairy search. Are they the same ones who are going to find fur and catch it? Is that it? When you see how easy it is to draw out money, you sometimes get really hot. When more part pleases, it's no problem. There's no problem saying: We're going to raise 600 billion dollars this year and the next to face a Covid epidemic, but much more is going to put 100 million into e.g. A relief organization that is feeding people before Christmas now? I think he's going to break that question, too, The Shock People's proposal. I don't think he'll agree with that, any more than that he's going to take it completely beyond any doubt that it's supposed to be a stand that protects this delicate perimeter, and all his family and all his people, who are entirely obliged to support some 20 million. K. to hire an employee. The Society did not ask more than one employee and half more status for some specialist; psychologist, lawyer or social worker who could come and help the people they are helping and protecting. Think of a respectable President. Yeah, it's supposed to be 25 million. K. in this, but they are to be divided into four parties: Protection, the Red Cross--I'm sorry, you'll answer me, my friend. Chairman of the budget board. I was at a meeting of the Board of Justice last night, and I was really, really, really, really, really hot. There's supposed to be 25 million in it, but they're supposed to be divided into four parties, and I'm just asking why. The senator and the chairman of the Board of Justice to correct this if I have been asleep at this meeting last night, talking about Protection, the Red Cross, Mrs. Ragnhöfönhönhön. The four parties are to receive 25 million in this budget. Wait a minute. paritaprevir Willum Thor Thor Þór Þórsson to correct me... A senator, that I was being wrong. [[-Answer, what's with all this shit?]] [[The president calls.]] I'd like you to correct me if I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u203	There's been talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u204	Anyway. A group of people also propose changes in this council resolution to increase support for the U.S.A. It seems so strange that this council hall with all the votes, completely unanimously determined two years ago to give 150 million. K. for support in S.A. Then the situation was urgent, as it is now. Then we witnessed a tremendous increase in the number of premature deaths of young addicts and even of non addicts, individuals who had been led into testing strong painkillers, opioids called opioids, and had actually died because of a very young baby, just children. As a matter of fact, it was a serious matter for a health minister, whether or not, to give a total body of 120 million. K. to that, as I understood it, and everyone I've talked to here, trying to reduce the waiting lists and take people into hospital to help them out of this disaster. But strangely enough, a respectable president, it was divided. 100 million were walking divisions in the United States and 50 million. K. You should go to the hospital Vog to try to reduce the list of waitings. That 50 million. K. I haven't returned yet, and I don't understand it at all. Last spring, they decided to propose 30 million. K. an additional advance to S.U. for Covid and the trauma of the organization because their resources were actually on the move, there was no elf sale or anything else. That's when more things come anyway. The legislature committee with the proposed adjustment to support the U.S.A. by 30 million and then actually take the pulse on the position this fall and may add if necessary. Yes, there is a great need. We've been told that the need is over 400 million. K. It has now been decided to add another 30 million, in view of the fact that the organization took the big step of quitting the financial support of gambling machines. I think we can all look up to them in this regard. At times, though, our organization, a subversive organization, has to do in order to earn money in order to run. But in this case, this is very good. But this does not alter the fact that there is much greater need for money, and the U.S.A. has, in fact, suffered a great increase in the cost of Covid's actions as well as all other health institutions, but we now contribute another 100 million to the U.S.A. I've stood here and kept crying that we shouldn't stand against the lowest income tenants of the elderly when it comes to receiving a single payment now for Christmas, tax and impairment. It was a wonderful thing to do for micropigs 50,000 bucks. in monotherapy, tax and inadequacies, as well as $20,000. In the summer, tax and demeaning, this is how specific Covid support is. A great fall in the gang, the price of necessities was greatly increased, and we know that our people sitting in the lowest income pennies, who have been held in a massive poverty trap, were actually very poor for Covid, much less now, and it has been shown in increasing numbers of people asking for food for Christmas that it has often been necessary but now is necessary. The group of people suggests an increase in budgets by 100 million. K. to help people eat less or less. 25 million. K. I mean, they put in some of the charities here at other sources rather than in the third, we're actually blundering Iceland record in the budget, this is the fiveth of the year. We can thank this Covid situation that none of us wanted to face, as it were, but this 25 million was divided into nine relief agencies. Anyone who sees how much money each one of them has been for a relief organization. But I think there's a reason why the Allied Council of Iceland will go out to the airport and face their long-range fellow Israelites, actually not just their fellow Americans, for less than 60% of all who are asking for food assistance, e.g. For Iceland's Family Help, are horrified, people of a foreign background, immigrants who want to be Icelanders who don't have food, and they're also men's work, they don't have food for them, think like this. A man is so completely offended that I find it difficult to express myself here as I watch the way money flows in every direction, but the people aren't put in first place, it's a long way from them. There is also a group of people with a turnaround of 800 million. Well, you've just never known anything like this, and it's in order to face our older people, who are below the limit of hunger at 210,000,220,000 bucks. a month, but I don't get a single check, neither will I.K.I. 50 grand. ... nowby Decemberand $20,000. in the summer. We're looking at the elderly who have less than 335,000 bars. per month. I'm not going to have this much further, Mr. Honorable President, but I just wanted to introduce here really what it is that we're offering in the amendment that the people's party proposes to this fundraiser bill. In fact, it seems possible to make an offer in a hotel without an invitation. I understand the price tag is up to 300 million. Well, it's all right, and it can be hacked into cashiers. This was not unforeseen in any way, nor does the law on money. It had to do with money, such as other things, but the problem is common among many, and it does not mean that poor people would believe that they are not poor and without food when they do not have a single dollar. It doesn't mean to draw up some average calculations on an Excel document from OECD that says it's an equation and it's great and great. That may well be so, but in view of what? What is the comparison? I will not ever try to convince poor people that they are not poor and that they have only enough money to buy themselves to eat and that they can not go to a helping organization to ask for food. That's impossible. I don't think it's possible for me or anyone else to talk about it, which can hardly rest on the pillow at night for feeling unwell and worried, that they're all right and they should stop. I don't think it's a good idea for individuals, members of Congress, to think here, as you've seen, to convince people that it's just okay. But it's just not. Last night, a man read the news about a young woman who says: "I no longer have money for food, even though I work full - time. I wonder why. She's got a full-time job. She has a low salary, she gets paid well under 300,000 bucks. During a month, children are available and may pay rent. How high is that building? Everyone knows that. Long-lasting people can rent a three-bedroom apartment at under 200,000 bucks. in a month, and what is left for a mother to survive? She says: "If it weren't for relief agencies, I don't know where I would be after every fifth month, it's the help centers that feed me and my children. This is how Iceland today: Grímur, Covids, and poverty, which are human work and shame to all of us forever.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u205	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech, but he is very pleased to leave. I don't always think the coverage is fair because it's a little pretended that nothing has been done or done. A senator knows that this has been done well, although we can always determine whether we can do better in many areas. Hv. A senator knows that we are being accepted into the budget of all kinds of requests, and we examine one thing and another, on the other, we have done so in the greater part, when we are contemplating the various support and especially now with regard to the situation because we know that we may not be able to look elsewhere. That is why we have a lot of responsibility. I want to keep it up for 25 million. K. a donation made here to promote the support of the adjustment of prisoners into the community after the loan is, as shown at our meeting, under official financial law. We emphasize that the members of this particular group have been an important link in the successful adjustment of prisoners to the community, where there is also conflict, and it is referred to here. Surely, much more money was wanted by a standoff, and it would have been worth far more than that, in fact, all of them. But it may not be entirely for us to decide that one person is the best person to do all these things. But I agree that their work is important, as with the other people's work, and we offer to the Minister of Justice, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, making negotiations with these support measures. [[The president calls.]] I think it's very important, and it reminds me that it's getting money from Social Services already, including To stand firm, there is an example for them to make negotiations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u206	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for the answer. The government has nothing to do with what we're doing here in the sheep market. The government is completely separate from the Lawgiver. Two. The Constitution makes that clear. That's what I want to say to you. A senator said that it was 2017 that was to be concluded with Aggressor. Then it went as it turned out. It was replaced on the bridge at the Ministry. What we're talking about here is that we're getting closer to New Year's and they're trying to get this into this money. There's no money or money coming back until next year if I get it all right. Like what? A senator rightly points out some comments, we receive requests, and we receive visitors who are allowed to comply with their wishes, which, in most cases, should come to the table of the Ministers. But it doesn't change the fact that I haven't seen many times before that some things are taken out of context like that exact call for abduction. The sides that are being distributed are not even asking for money, and they are already receiving financial support. They already have money. Stands are the only organization here that doesn't have a single single clue. Wait a minute. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter has come to correct me if it's wrong with me that my Red Cross, Protection and Mrs. Ragnhei already gain money. While all of that is worth, this activity is really different from what I'm calling now, especially to be taken care of. The story and the way it was followed just touched me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u207	A respectable president. As noted, there is a contribution made by the Ministry of Social Affairs, so everyone has a budget, although not a lot of money. [[The point is, How much was it again?]] They had 3 million, as the president of that company observed. Right away. A senator says it's none of the business of the executives to say: "We're bringing this money with a premise here in the Commission's opinion and hiding it from the Commission. So, of course, it can't be said that it doesn't come about, and we don't just look around when we're doing research, we do it more, so it's said. I'm encouraging it. A senator not necessarily to be very dramatic when it comes to this. I'd like to say the same about food support. They know why. A senator, too. It has made contributions both in April and in June, and again, making a contribution to them, of course, on the subject, that is inviting people to eat, such as cot. A senator mentioned here. I don't think it's illegal to say it or at least belittle what has been done, because there have gone tens of millions just this year to support the relief organization, and that's still being done. We've already received a memo, including one. how capitalism has already been divided and that ahead is that it should be supported and supported by this organization. We can discern how much money is meant to be in this situation, like so many other things, but these are being supported.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u208	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for second answer. I'm not going to thank her for the kindly recommendation that I don't speak as I please, because that's what I will always do. But I'd like to point out that when there are tens of millions of people involved, it was a total of 87 million people in this series. K. I haven't forgotten that it didn't take long to put 80 million. K. In a minimoon, feeding minks. It didn't take long. This is an insurmountable farming. Instead of putting our arms around the farmers who have this farming and trying to help them get up on their feet in any other way, we're supporting the insurmountable farming of A to A. With regard to executives and legislatures: although I'm not some lawmaster, it's absolutely clear that we at the Council are the lawgiver, and we're the guardian. It's as simple as that. With regard to these 3 million as a dog. A senator noted that it came from the Department of Social Affairs that I can improve; Reykjavíkurburg has also supported a position of about 2 billion. K. and half of it went on to pay up credited rent because they are naturally completely fighting back to try to keep out this small office that they almost paid for themselves. So, at least for the night. A senator shows that something is good and that something is done well is not enough, for the fact is that the sequences are extended to poor people after food, and the fact is that poverty is growing, and we don't have to argue about money and money, we just need to agree that we need to do better. We need to do much more than just make sure that there is plenty to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u209	A respectable president. A group of people contributes here four adjustments to the budget. The work of the legal committee has been made clear to the need, the intensity, and the need for it and the need for attention and the presence of a call in the community. Here we have, for example. a change in sides, where I request 20 million unfounded funds they requested to hire an employee. They are members of a group holding our prisoners, our families, and their partners, helping them to live again. It's a perimeter group. When I account for my vote, I'm going to explain more clearly what's going on here and what these adjustments are covered in. But I challenge you, my fellow senators, to introduce you to the things that are here because it seems that it sometimes comes easier to put crowns in one thing than another. But here we are merely talking about putting the people in first place.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u210	Mr. President. This is the end of the line, and we're about to vote on the budget. Of course, these are the largest members of the council that have already been determined. As we have supported much of that, we will, of course, vote each one according to his conscience afterward. But I'd like to use this opportunity here on the last record to point out if there's no reason for reason. The budget to assemble for a meeting now on the 3rd. and ask yourself, " Is there no reason to enter these financial provisions any obligation to respond quickly because of the harsh conditions in Seysar, so that government funds have authority to come to full aid? ' I'll throw it up here to think about what's going on in the Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u211	A respectable president. This financial bill continues to respond to the results of the pandemic in the community. This is where we vote for 65 billion bucks. increase of expenses. There, the cost of growing unemployment is lower than 30 billion, and revenue is on the rise to more than 23 billion. Suggested measures to improve the health care cost are made. There are other expenditures that are distributed into many categories and topics, including to the after-and-regional system and many other contributions, including to cultural and juvenile cultures, which I believe are of utmost importance in our difficult years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u212	Mr. President. In 2019 the cost was 3.5 billion. This year, applications are fewer than in recent years, end up almost shut down for months. This year, there is a $3.2 billion allowance for the shelterers. On December 1, applications were 618 and the cost was 2.5 billion. So there should be right leftovers to the seminary about a billion dollars. On the other hand, the government asks for 400 million. K. One more time. For that amount, over 1,000 refugees can be maintained abroad for a year. This extra reserve shows what we in the Central Party have always said, that this case is out of order. The suggestion that there is no rise to the jury is not being carried out, as it is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u213	Mr. President. In addition to the reasons why they should be here. Þórarinsson I'd like to call attention to the Group's synopsis proposal for increased efficiency in a lawsuit, but it has a substantial lack. Increased efficiency in case management has fallen in order to save substantial financial resources. Therefore, we feel that the funds discussed are unnecessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u214	A respectable president. I have to say, I really got all messed up when I got that good officer a position for the committee. He followed his headline in which he would like to receive funds after the 15 - year work of the subterranean society that has held around the self - edged group of our prisoners. Well, then I'm talking about a total of 20 million without a budget. K. to hire one employee and half the staff of specialists to meet this group. These are the children of prisoners, these are the prisoners themselves. These are our prisoners who are in trouble abroad. They've been helping the Ministry to get our people back here, they've been helping them do volunteer work. They're asking for exactly this now, taken away from all the contracts to be done, such as. those who fell between the ship and the dock in 2017. In fact, there is nothing in the water, nothing we have in our hands unless we can do it now. I can't believe we can't at least... - These are small money, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] I challenge you to say yes. .
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u215	A respectable president. We here vote to meet the U.S.A., another perimeter group we should have had in our arms, and do much better. We should not have hundreds of people on a waiting list for help at first. Throughout the Covid epidemic, they, like most others, have become of all their personal resources. Much of the budget has tried to do something about it, but it can be better if it works. They've requested more than 400 million. K. support. It's a long way off. It's a long time before they make ends meet, and we pay for the more than the cost of Covid from the U.S.A. The adjustment involves giving them 100 million. K. Strength. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u216	A respectable president. Granted, in society there are very many older citizens, not so many, such as the highest. Secretary of finance has repeatedly said, but there are still many reasons why we should put our arms around them for Christmas, as we did in the case of desperate ones. This is a suggestion that we meet those with less than 335,000 bars. In a month, natural for taxes, and paid 220,000 bucks, we also give them $50,000. monotherapy, tax and inadequacy, now for Christmas. It's our poorest people who lay anxiously on their pillows every night and worry about Christmas. I can't believe the Allied Congress of Iceland is, in fact, against the poorest social group. I'm totally from believing that. It's very easy to press the green button and say, "Merry Christmas for the seniors and the rest of us,
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u217	A respectable president. We vote to put money in charities that give people food, relief agencies that have said that Christmas waits for Christmas are extending. Yesterday I read an article from a young woman who works full - time, but every five months she has no food for every month, so without help, she said that she did not know what she would do to feed her children. I am absolutely past the point of understanding how we can put with one pencil 80 million in an inert industry, like a mink. It's no problem to feed girls for 80 million. It's no big deal to put 120 million in a fur seek for a company, but we don't even know what's behind these 120 million we're accepting now as far as it's concerned. I'm just saying, why in the world don't we put our people in first place? Are we heartless in here? How can we view long rows of people asking for food without being ready to feed them?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-18-42.u218	Mr. President. In this bill, the government, with the Independence Party at the Ministry of finance, has to put in another trip more money for the State Radio. 5,000 million each year from taxpayers, this institution is not enough. She also has to take another 2,000 million to a commercial market from the private media. Then RUSH picks up more money from the back door from the government fund and receives reimbursement for film making. Mr. President. What's happening up there on Top Search? Is the government in there okay? And this is getting nice, isn't it? The middle party proposes this 50 million. K. There is no progress on the state radio.
