ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u1	Borist has a letter from the 10th. That's the north side. " Friðbjörg Flandish the daughter of Elíasdóttir, that she will be absent in the near future. So today, at the General Assembly as her deputy of the 1st United States Company list, María Hjálmarsdóttir. She has previously taken her place at the General Assembly, and she is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u2	Borist has received letters from the following counsellors who are requested to provide written answers to queries: From social and child-reversaries to ask for this request. 1074, of those who do not live in houses, registered in real estate, from the Birks Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir; on deck. 1,136, of the Agricultural Programme, from Friðbjörg Fjordur, the daughter of Elíasdóttir. It's from the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Minister for the Sports. 1163, on contracts of government funds, from Björn Gunnarsson's Leví. Finally, from foreign and development co-worker to wish to inquire. 710, on the release of international contracts, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson, and on a threshing floor. 1142 on a ground plan of action, from Friðbjörg Furbjörður, the daughter of Elíasdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u3	The president considers it possible for a meeting to last longer than the Convention order, if necessary, to be held and to be agreed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u4	To answer these questions, Prime Minister, Transport and Regional Ministers, Minister of Social Affairs and Children's Affairs, Tourism, Industrial and Neony Ministers and Ministers of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u5	President. It has been observed that the Atlantic Union is prepared to lay 123/418 billion dollars. the development of infrastructures in Southnes and the use of civil infrastructures that will be very significant for the communities there. Also, it has been observed that the left movement has been able to prevent this from happening, which sounds very strange, in view of our involvement with NATO and paying money each year. Why does the left movement not want money back? I'm not talking about now when unemployment is the way it is in Southnes, nearly 30% in Smokeytown. How can the left movement a green supply allow itself to prevent any reversal that would follow such a project that will create hundreds of jobs? Why does VG take this position in view of the fact that Iceland is a member of NATO? Does this mean that the Party allows political viewpoints on the Atlantic Community to be controlled by hundreds of jobs in the Southwaters? Second, I ask, " How does this happen? ' How did the left movement arrive at a green supply or at the highest level. Prime Minister to keep this from happening? I was sorry for the highest. A minister in the Morning Press that there had been no special pressure on this matter. How is this to be understood? So is there a great pressure on all matters, or was there no particular pressure on this matter? Why, then, the conclusion? The questions are: Why, on what basis and how did they do so? Is this the case with the prime minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u6	Mr. President. Thank you. The chairman of this inquiry, which is important to be present at the council today, on the very basis of the news being delivered on this subject. First of all, the left movement has been claimed to stand against national security policy for Iceland. I have seen no evidence available to support this claim and to remind them that following a statement signed by the U.S. government in 2016, a specific structure was announced at Keflavour Field, followed by a joint understanding of the government during 2017, of what this structure would be all about, has been built up for 12 billion years ago. Does this not show that the left movement has a green supply for the decisions made and is based on an assessment of the defense interest done following the 2016 declaration? What is discussed here are ideas about additional projects in this area. No formal talks have been made between the Icelandic government and the Atlantic Community on this project. These are ideas of the highest degree. The minister of foreign affairs brought up a discussion in connection with the fast - paying financial provisions. Then I say and reiterate what I've said before: The decision of foreign politics and the protection of the economy is not to be confused with economic actions when Icelanders face economic hardships that I would have thought to be the cause. A senator would agree that we were in every position to be able to stand completely without outside assistance like this. This must always be a foreign political decision based on the individual's common opinion of the defense.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u7	Mr. President. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The prime minister to minimize this matter, almost calling it a fantasy. Secretary of State or some of his ideas and speculations in connection with the reaction to the economic situation. I and a number of other members of Parliament had long heard of these plans, this interest in the Atlantic Community before the highest level. The minister of state put this into the highest level of work. Prime Minister mentioned. The interest has already existed, the willingness to establish a large structure that would produce hundreds of jobs in Southnes that are truly needed today, so I ask: Can you understand the highest level of work? Ministers such as that if this happens formally or by proper means for the Minister, the highest. Prime Ministers do not interfere with the project, do not prevent the government from removing it, or in what way it has the highest authority. The prime minister's order to prevent the issue from being advanced to this point? [[The president calls.]] If it goes that way as high as possible. Minister would like to see it go away, then the highest. A minister agrees to be worthy of this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u8	Mr. President. Here I come to answer a very clear question. A senator who says the truth, that there have been no formal conversations between the Icelandic government and the Atlantic Community on this structure. I'm trying to make a small question out of you. A senator? No. However, I do not agree with the approach that foreign political decisions should take into account views of economic structure and work structure. I don't like it when Iceland and I discuss our best interests in defending ourselves with other countries. We follow the national security policy adopted by the General Assembly as I considered in my previous reply. I'm pointing out what. A senator says that there is a risk assessment in preparation for Iceland that I think is important that we base all our decisions on that subject. This risk assessment will be conducted in the fall of the council and is derived from the preparatory body of National Security Council. We need to be cautious when discussing matters as important as the national security of the Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u9	Mr. President. I'm in a place similar to the one mentioned earlier. So I'm gonna take the highest. Ministers in exactly the word and do not mix in this time of economic gain and protection. I've asked a lot of things. Ministers aware that left greens are completely against Western cooperation and Iceland's presence in NATO, which I have been assured of, including, Here in this council hall, that in spite of this, Prime Minister, president of the National Security Council, will put forth the effort to follow our national security policy, will follow the implementation of national security policy. According to the law, the National Security Council should closely oversee the implementation of the defence policy. Safety and protection status should also be determined. V.E.G. A minister informed us at the highest. The minister of foreign affairs would have brought this idea into the table of the State Department. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, chairman of the National Security Council of our Iceland, who has certain responsibilities, whether the possible building projects in Helga would not fully underline this concept into the National Security Council and make it an accurate assessment of safety and protection conditions and whether these potential building projects in Helsinki would not underline and build up in Iceland's defences. Took the top. Prime Minister as chairman of the National Security Council of this concept of the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs in order to build up for marauders in Helsinki, which can certainly be more supportive of our own protection, further as president of the National Security Council?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u10	Mr. President. Now, as shown in my case, the proposal on this subject or the idea was to be discussed in the context of the fast - working budget. As was very clear in my answer to the question of why. paritaprevir This choice is not made in this way by the beauties of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson. Decisions like this should be taken into consideration. V.E.G. The minister of state did not want this to be considered in the National Security Council, but if such ideas continue, they will, of course, be taken there and evaluated in the context of our national security policy and risk assessment. I have stressed the importance of being the chairman of the National Security Council that we are working under national security policy. Therefore, the risk assessment that was being prepared for the pandemic today is being prepared and is indeed a security check for perhaps a bigger scale than we have seen before, for a long time. We need to evaluate how our defenses are about such a safety threat. You see, that's how it is, and it knows why. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, that the risk assessment for Iceland is not merely a matter of building military workers but of evaluating real threats in recent times. The national security policy is trying to review these various threats, and the risk assessment is aimed at evaluating the real risk for Iceland, and we must make decisions based on that assessment. Hv. A senator claims that the left movement over is against Western cooperation, but I don't quite understand what it means. If it is pointing to the Atlantic Alliance, it is true, but we certainly do not cooperate with other Western countries. I reiterate what I've said before that the maintenance of workers in the defense zone at Keflavourfield has been more than since 2002, so the government today is certainly following the national security policy better after the previous governments have done. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u11	A respectable president. In my opinion, it is no longer a secret to Western defenses. We can see that the terms of the government's internal affairs come in, including those in the United States. To prevent national security advice from covering the interests associated with the construction of harbor workers in Helgavík. This must lead us to conclude that the government's agreement itself prevented the legal implementation of the National Security Council. There is no other conclusion, so I have become very skeptical of all the words that were said here in the hall that a prime minister would follow the national security policy. It is being undermined on the basis of Western defenses, it is not spoken clearly, and the government with the Independence Party within the board does not speak clearly in these matters. It's a concern, not just for the Southnes, who need clear answers from the government, but for all the people who are interested and ambitious in having an active defense and security policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u12	Mr. President. I'm going to take a look at that conclusion level. The senator is rather on the table of creative articles. To say here that I keep matters from being taken into consideration in the National Security Council for some sort of internal interest is very serious words - and not true. It's just that way. Of course, if there are any such projects - if - because, as I have repeatedly said, there have been no formal talks about it, they are, of course, discussed in the scene of the National Security Council. This discussion is based on the national security advice to have it won. I would've thought what. A senator would agree that we should be careful about these matters, that we should look at them, not on economic grounds, but precisely on the broad national security policy adopted by the General Assembly at the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u13	A respectable president. I'm still gonna talk about defense, just another defence. I'm going to defend the elderly citizens and poor people in today's unprecedented position that when they have to get rid of drugs, they'll have to pay for them in serials with the cost or small loans involved. Is it acceptable to allow such things to walk? Why is the situation so bad? Because we've created a really weird system. We've created a system where there's insurance on the loans, but at the same time, we're building a grant in the social security system, which is completely irresponsible. Certain figures are inserted, and from 2009 to today, car strengths for severely disabled people in wheelchairs would have increased, or would have increased, by 426,000 times, 40%. It's the atrophy. For the person in need who has already sold his car, has bought another one, and is waiting to be released, the car increased because of a fall of 1.5 million. If this strength had been insured, he would have raised about 2 million during this period to make the leftover 500,000. I'm asking the highest. Social Affairs: Is there any policy at the government to tell people: We're going to strengthen you on drugs, automobiles, and automobiles, but we're going to put a certain dollar in there and let it go so that it doesn't go anywhere? Then people cannot take advantage of that strength. Will there be any changes?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u14	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. That is exactly what the senator points to, social security payments for living, disability pensions, older citizens'pensions, indexes, and increases each year, while the funds to other factors have not been bound to the indexes of consumer prices or general prices. It's been stuck in a bill for financial purposes every year, and it hasn't been indexed. I don't know how long it's been like this, but I can tell the senator that we're having a conversation with a bunch of disabled people about the strength to buy cars. There is only a change, some funding have increased since then, but it has been longer since others have increased, especially on larger cars. We're looking at this. Information was compiled for me as a result of a meeting that I had with the disabled people to discuss this and whether there is no reason to respond in some way. This is the answer to that question. In terms of whether it is government policy that these teams are generally not relevant to the index, it is the funding that we make in budgets each year bound to a certain centenarian number. But we have decided, and it's a good thing, that what flows through the social security system, including In the form of a microenergy pension, it is bound to an index. However, a discussion would have to be made as to whether it would be wise to attach other factors. This decision has not been made at this time. Therefore, we are specifically looking at the strength of cars mentioned by the senator in his inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u15	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer is not, however, because we already know that there is a lot of relief and strength, such as drug strengths, automobile vehicles, and other things, but they are not raising anything. Every year, increases are not put in, which is incredibly unfair. I've seen examples since 2009. It's been in the government by the government. You look at it like it's a natural law. That's not it. There's people getting pinched. Of course, it sucks. There's nothing more pathetic. These are older citizens and poor people who are releasing their drugs and who have to pay in order to pay or even borrow a small loan. It's not going to work out, and it's a disgrace for us that we're going through this, not just for the past few years, but for the past few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u16	A respectable president. You're right about what you're doing. A senator, this is not an index, and therefore, it does not take on the price of change. However, it is very positive that the pension is a index number for itself and that each year the changes are automatically made. That's why I told my first answer that we're looking at even... The concentration of the car is involved. We've had discussions with both the EX and self-sufficiency issue, and this is to consider how the Ministry cooperates with an insurance agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u17	Mr. President. The rural population has not been part of the pandemic of Covid-19 rather than the rest of the community. It is clear that they are in a different position to cope with the shock, which, in addition, takes a beating on them. I would especially like to point out the position of the many students who are not qualified for jobs during summer or who have no right to unemployment benefits, including those who have been screened off and therefore have no right to pay for unemployment. Thus, the need for financial aid from a local community is expected to increase quickly. Many fail to meet conditions for other resources, so they cannot help but look to the local community for help. Too many don't fit in the box. Thus, the financial and investment programmes of many rural society are in turmoil, and they may not be able to perform the necessary basic services, ensure the implementation of their citizens, how much effort was made to support the sector and economic activities in the vicinity of the environment. For example, in April about 28% of Southnes, unemployment was reported. It is expected that unemployment will reach 50% of the Vikings in Snow Valley and that things will not be much better in the Skaftár carpet. The town chief of the town of Blue Forest has described a more serious situation, and similar places are located in parts of the South. Unemployment was reported to be 27% in April on the Hornióttur, a failure of tourist services on top of hairy failures and poor quality of hair. A scaffolding platform is in trouble, and this could be done all around the country. V.E.G. There must be responsibility for both the accounting of rural communities and more than for the inhabitants who inevitably become involved in a progressive problem. So I would like to ask him, " How are you going to do the highest work? ' The secretary of transportation and rural government strengthens and supports the communities to face this crisis?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry on the status of the local community. I asked a Based agency to determine the particular impact of the tourism at the level of employment and thereby the income supply of these rural partners. Nine rural communities, which were published recently and discussed this weekend, came out of the largest. There are five rural areas in the South, three in the Southnes, and one in the North East, and then. A senator mentioned them. They depend very much on the tourism. I have had conversations with some of these rural partners, and we were in such a fine position to be on a special assignment with Southnes. In fact, it had developed from another stage of growth because these areas have grown considerably in recent years. At the same time, we've started a conversation with the Icelandic company to analyze the situation now and develop in the next few months. The situation is simply such that it includes. Because of the government's actions to this end, the situation of individuals is better than it would be. In the fall, in the winter, the communities worry, and I share their concerns. It is important that we do so with solutions. We have received an independent party to direct the government work by means of our relationship, Gunnar Haraldsson, and the result of that work will be in four, five weeks. Then there will be a model for different conditions. It's enormously different from society. You're right next door. A senator that one of the members of the team she mentioned will not be able to get through without the government's specific support, but we have time to analyze and find the right ways, including the right ways. with these communities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u19	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Transport and Regional Minister for Answers. That's good, and I know these conversations are going on and this diagnostic work is going on. But maybe I didn't get the answer to the question of supportive and planned action, do they make it specific? I heard that in a minister. Whether this will be a specific action in the interests of individual rural communities that really need it, or whether this will be a general measure of action for the whole country. I know students are extremely worried, the work that has already been assigned to students throughout the country, and I'm concerned about the lack of financial support in rural society. I think that the forwarding problem of the population in those areas may not be enough to fix in the fall but needs to come right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u20	A respectable president. I'm gonna give you a clear answer on the exact operation. I think the most important thing is that we now achieve the results on the analysis and status and, uh, the rest of the story. in a conversation with these rural communities the most reasonable ways in which we will be in place before we begin to report these measures. I can see that they can be more general because, of course, there are all societies that deal with this problem, there are certain rural areas that have a lot bigger problems than others, and we can also see for ourselves due to communities that have done considerable leftovers in years and will, just like the government, get through this by taking a loan and then becoming in the same place in two years. Such communities exist, and it cannot be expected that government funds or future society will sustain all as if nothing had happened. Everyone has to deal with this problem, but some people can't do it without getting special help, and I feel that in the case of these rural partners, they're gonna get some kind of special help, like we're actually doing in Southnes today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u21	Mr. President. For the council, there is a bill for a change in the law on package travel, a reimbursement of credit. More countries have set up a similar route but are now disappearing to a lesser or greater extent. It's a big and exemplary case. It's not even a constitution. Now have at least A couple of business banks say something, and they think it's out of control. However, the director of the Transporter Association says it's a nice way to go by a minister and it's not gonna be a thing if this case is blown up into a political buttercup, as he calls it. The matter, however, is not such a simple, respectable president. It is also consumers' business, and it is designed to protect the interests and rights of individuals and families, free trade, and social rights. What are the plans for the government on this matter? Will families and homes, such as groups of older citizens and young people, prepare for graduation, birthday trips, and whatever, ordinary people? These groups have contributed a great deal. Does the government promise that travel agencies will keep free money from customers in an effort to make an acceptable financial position? I'm not making it any less fun of it at all. What guarantee do customers have that a travel agency's position will become a little better after a few months? It must not be taken into account as though their debt of debt is still growing, i.e. to those still active? Seven have already set up the latrines. Mr. President. I'm asking the highest. A consumer minister is concerned about whether his intentions are to hold this bill for stress or to look for other ways, as some examples are around us. I'm also asking: How much is this amount of money as a customer of a travel agency meant to lend interest-freely for up to one year? How much money is in there? Is it only Icelandic tourists, or is the commitments of travelers to foreign travelers to some extent? What, then, is its scope?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u22	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. First of all, I agree with what. A senator says that the matter is not simple at all. I would also like to see that this is a statement that, of course, behind the demands are families and their homes. The issue is that we at the council have already introduced this directive from the European Union and I insist, and I think it is difficult to object, that the basis of that directive is smiling. No one would have written the directive as it was if people could have imagined that the entire industry in the whole continent and all around the world could be turned off on one board. This does not change the current law and the right of consumers is very rich in current legislation. We've got business that's all kinds. They're a lot different sizes. Businesses that have permission to sell packages are almost 300. There are also families at times. We demand that they have insurance connections, and that guarantees are sometimes in the form of cash, sometimes in the form of bets, and these bets are simply in the homes of those people. So we know that if nothing has to be done that can be done, many families and many homes will also have trouble. I've been telling you about the first day that it's not simple. It's not black or white. I realize very well that entering legislation that changes consumer rights is controversial. We simply faced this situation with these laws, looking ahead of us many bankruptcys, and they had to look for ways, many ways. We've been over it. Many countries have taken different paths. We could not go as Danir did because we do not have one common fund. Rather, we have as many insurance insurance as there are many companies. But I hear the discussion. These guarantees hold about 8 billion. There are, however, all kinds of contributions. [[The president calls.]] I'll get into it in later on, answer the standards of the company, the insurance levels, the preliminaries, and so forth.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u23	A respectable president. I'm going to the top. Minister to keep this bill? What's a lot of public money in there with no interest or insurance? In view of this, the report says that the travel agencies are very important in the community. Ministers intend to keep this bill for stress, is it not reasonable that the project will be handled with far greater protection for consumers and that this aspect will be just part of the large package of action, that consumers will receive full guarantees for reimbursement immediately, inflation through the government through certain transfers, that government funds will take the risk there, but not family and uncertainty? That would be the benefit of both. The bill says there's no insurance insurance, no interest, no insurance. It seems that the value will fly up. Here is an opportunity, but it seems clear that corporate interests will be put above the interests of the public in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u24	Mr. President. Travel agencies are a very important link in this respect chain. They are a very important link in Icelandic tourism. Since we started working on this bill, governments have provided a range of measures that are certainly useful to these companies, such as other companies. However, these companies do not seem to be working well because of pay salary or money. The support loans cannot be used for any reimbursement, but they go into the business, and some companies drop between them and be able to take advantage of the resources. We know of these extremes. However, this is not to say that depositors in these companies are worthless because, in contrast with the general public, insurance is behind them. This flea also has plenty of companies selling almost exclusively travel to foreign tourists. That group is also in there, and we can't stand apart there, let anything else apply to Icelandic consumers than foreign users. As I say, I hear the discussion, I hear the worry and the criticism, and I don't feel much political support for the case, so there may be nothing to be done but suggestions already. [[The president calls.]] Then it'll go its own way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u25	President. I just wanted to talk to the highest. Secretary of travel. It may not be surprising that many of us are motivated by tourism. We've been watching it explode over the past few years and decades since being some of the other things, which we fought against the activation plans of our time, which sometimes were laughed at, to become the most important export of the population. The Icelandic government may never have handled that properly. It called for policies and rules for itself for a very long time, so it has hardly been seen that an article called so much after it, but lived under an enormous amount of value, as well as under the function of this article, to receive all the tourists who came to the country. Now the situation is the way it is, and we see many companies fighting in banks, from large tourism companies who have more tables for a small family company, even on their own social security number, where everyone in the same family depends on that company. We've discussed the need to maintain tourism because we'll be approached by tourism. We have considered economic support measures for travel services, which many of whom have been highly accepted in this article and are very helpful, but how do we view travel services that come out of this situation? Will we contribute to building environmental and green tourism? How does a minister who is also the minister of innovation support a connection between the two?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u26	Mr. President. We see that Icelandic tourism is of enormous importance to Icelandic society not only a government fund or an Icelandic job life and valuable creation but also what is about our quality of life, not just a standard of living, but also a quality of life. The development of tourism has been self - induced, and this is likely the most beautiful thing in the construction of this sector, the spontaneous operation. Foreign tourists spent about 284 billion in 2019, I saw in what Haust was publishing. At dinner and breakfast, there's 109 billion. We can imagine all this secondary effect when it comes, for example. that domestic food production if 50 billion go to restaurants only from foreign tourists. We had a lot of emphasis on going into policy for the article, and I'm very proud of the way it was done, how it was done, the products that came out of working with the local government level, with the job, and looking in the long term. It's a good test stone to watch this course now. He's as supportive as we won him. This is the perfect key. We are not changing any course when it comes to a policy frame and the direction of Icelandic tourism to the year 2030. What might be interesting is that in a few years we managed to leave 500,000 tourists in 2 million tourists. It was quite successful in spite of everything we've had to clean up, etc. Now is also the time to ask, " What did we learn from this? ' What do we want to do better now? On what do we want to build? What might we want to do differently? Of course, any other government action to provide increased research support and development will be useful to tourism. [[The president calls.]] We need to make good use of the time we now have to work fast to determine what we want to do better and how to use them to make us more competitive and stronger.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u27	President. The self-employment policy of the highest order. A minister speaks of this very important, as we discussed earlier, where small family companies have developed and have made residences around the country anything less than perhaps before. Such tourism is often the most environmentally friendly. How important it is to keep that in mind and to create new ones in the tourism business! That's why I'm very happy to hear at the top. Minister how important it is to take advantage of the time now to consider where travel services are going to take place and where we should be headed for travel. That is where we base on the fine work being done in the tourism campaign. It is extremely important to look for ways to keep our arms around it and to think about these green innovations about where we're headed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u28	Mr. President. In the policy frame, we're here to talk about increasing production, valuable creation, international competitiveness, responsible tourism using technology, innovation, and product development. We have emphasized that the number of tourists is not what we need but what we get out of this article, both in the form of vitals and quality of life, the experience of tourists, professionalism, quality of life, and security. Of course, we can see that the factors we'd hoped to establish become, I believe, even more special after all we've been through, that we can still build what's important to us, what we have to do, which is to create nature, purity, that we're driving on energy exchange, that it's a special experience for tourists to come here and live in what Iceland has to offer. We can be absolutely outstanding in that, and all I can feel is that there's a lot of solidarity in this. That is why, despite the difficult times we are in today, I find that all of us agree to build our tourism again, and we are guided, so we now have the opportunity to move even faster on those topics.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u29	A respectable president. This is where I recommend a bill to legalize government funds for the payment of part of the pay on notice. The bill's on the roof. 1424 and the code is 811. The bill is part of a procedure presented by the government on April 28th. and includes providing financial support from the state funds to pay part of the pay on notice. The objective of this procedure is to ensure the rights of the employee and reduce the likelihood of the number of subsidies of an enterprise. The bill is presented concomitantly with the Director of Social Affairs for the extension of the so-called part-time work and the bill of Minister of Justice on temporary sources of financial restructuring of employment companies. These actions were introduced at the same time as the one involved in this bill, all of which are designed to work together on the previously mentioned goals. I want it to be noted here that in other parts of the North countries, only special implementation is used to enable companies to reduce their activities if necessary, without affecting their curative and recruitment skills. There's a different output than this. I'm referring to judges that can be found in collective agreements, e.g. In Norway and Denmark, where an enterprise has the authority to temporarily place employees on pay-free leave, it receives unemployment benefits while allowing it. Staff who are going on pay-per-view on these grounds will keep recruitment relationship with the company and have the right to continue working after the permit. The temporary action involved in part - time work is more closely related to the Norwegian strategy and is shared in the expected return of wage workers to their jobs after temporary management problems have ended. In the present situation, it has to be assumed that companies are going through reorganization and are responding, including some of the results. with the bill I recommend here. Of course, there is no need to assume that the resources in the North countries, such as those mentioned in this bill, are for enterprises that have been seriously affected. In this bill, we assume that resources are available to those who have been exposed to at least 75% of revenues and the bill allow for a reference period in this material. It is obvious that an enterprise with little or no income will have a serious problem paying salary, not paying full notice for all employees, as can be the case with some of the cases. In fact, last week we saw in the city theater itself a problem paying, and this has probably not been able to benefit from some of the measures that the government has played until recently. No doubt, without the approval of the government at the General Parliament and with us at the council, the total number of companies, especially on this bill, would be having a serious problem paying their pay. The options discussed here include individuals and legislators who were employed prior to December 1, 2018. They're thinking of an enterprise that has unlimited tax responsibilities in this country. This does not apply to institutions, settlements, or businesses owned by a government or a community. The conditions that the professional must meet in order to receive support are as follows: The account of the hired employee on May 1, 2020, needs to be based on circumstances created as a result of an outbreak of crown virus. The average monthly employment skills must have been summed up by 75%, as mentioned earlier, between March 1, 2020 and the day of the salary compared to the previous period. I refer to the bill on that subject. The times are only flexible. Unemployable bonuses, personal letters, and similar measures have not been decided on by an employer since March 15, 2020. Here we can ask why March 15 was chosen. I have to say that in the various measures we've taken during the council lately and that the law has either been considered on March 15 and sometimes on March 1, which is the basis of March 15, which is the basis of March 15, including the case. Because the first decision to make for a meeting ban had just been made, and it can be said that it would be clear how much economic effect this epidemic would have. Although it may sound strange now because of all that has happened since the first outbreak of February 29, I think that with some fairness it can be said that March 1st was a bit more than March 15th, so when you're putting down dates in this subject, I think March 15 is a reasonable date. The jobseeker should not be underreached by public fees, taxes and tax returns due to one day before the end of 2019, and taxes and costs should not be based on programmes. In that case, he should have submitted tax returns and accessories and other reports and reports, including CC reports, to the tax for the last three years prior to the application. At the same time, he should have been given an account of the year and an informed account of the real owners. Business farms should not have been replaced or broken. In addition, paying taxes for the same month's pay is conditional for support. I'll be a little closer to supporting you. According to the bill, it accounts for up to a maximum of 85% of the salary paid by an employee on notice, though, at a maximum of 633,000 k. per month for pay and up to a maximum of 85,455 k. a month for a pension fund part of a professional driver. In addition, maximum support is 1,14,000. because of the holiday that a paid person may be entitled to a full - time job and a percentage for a part - time job. Support is given on the contract of an employee's notice, though not more than three months. In order to strengthen the rights of the employees, the employees who are told to work and the employer are supportive for the priority that a comparable work for the company should take place within a certain period of time. At such counsel, the hired men would continue to enjoy the rights they had accumulated in their work before it became available. It is suggested that the tax take care of the resource and that the application procedure will be electronic. The decisions made by the tax are expected to be final at the administrative level, but on the basis of administrative law, a decision can be repeated if not established on the right grounds. According to the bill, the pay should be transferred to the employment taxpayers. Thus it will be new to equal the loss in the year of support and to the equation of overcrowding loss of the previous year, as appropriate. I'm sure this is what I think, that those who have overcrowded older tax losses that they planned to take with them into the future in order to balance taxes must actually see the state's demand for less tax pay in the future for receiving support. The bill is put together so that only what counts as overcrowded management losses in the previous year and the loss of the year when support is due in 2020, but otherwise there will be no income transfers this year. More than that, it will be added to a special fund among its own funds that will be paid during the next six business years. At that time, the income transfers are met by 10% per year for the first two years and 20% per year for the next four years. Fundamental support is expected to require that the professional commitment not to take certain measures should be made, such as in the form of remuneration, until the support is fully paid. It is suggested that the employer is able to resolve the commitment by reimbursement and growth of the so - called non - income financial support. The bill suggests that the tax will be allowed to publish the names of the employers who have been established support based on the law. In the event that you call for more information on support, general laws will apply to that information request. Enlightenment is important, but with this assistance at the deadline, you are endeavoring to reduce the uncertainty and delay of salary pay due to the employer's loss of income. As mentioned earlier, there is also a decrease in the risk that the employer will simply fail. These are the companies that have been exposed to the loss of income that we are here to discuss. We believe that by making these arrangements, we will ensure that, first of all, the pay - related rights will be respected by a paid person and that the company will then have the opportunity to find shelter, lay around to seize the opportunity when the situation improves, that, when the situation recovers, this less bankruptcy and more flexibility towards the economy will lead to greater power and efficiency. In this way, it will be as short as possible and work quickly again. It is extremely difficult to evaluate the likelihood of success in the future. As I reasoned, there is no doubt in my mind that a number of the employees had entered a very narrow position and an enormous uncertainty without the support measures we have already undertaken, e.g. in the form of the support loans that are now at the end of the month to run their course in the form we have known. Then, these two ways, the one that is being presented here, the other the resources the Minister of Social Affairs recommends for the continuation of the part-change process with extended conditions, as well as the issues presented by the Minister of Justice for the Council, and so have I. So to my mind, there is no question that we have created shelter for our homes with these provisions. You will need special resources for those enterprises which will not be able to handle the conditions of the part-change process. Many people will find it difficult to continue their pay of 25%, and when the conditions grow up in July to 50% of the employer's obligation to pay, they will be even more clear that many of them will not be able to handle it either. It is also, as if a bill was traced to the bill, taking into account that there would be no social problems without the pay paid out of pay. Similarly, greed would cause much independent damage to many, so when we consider both the cost of such resources and the possible effects on household life, many people are deeply affected. The economic impact is also being watched. I believe that by the cooperation of the government's resources, we can achieve the goal that Iceland's long - term noncooperativeness will be less and more economical. This is an enormously important operation in this regard. But predicting exactly how it will go down to billions of dollars or in percent of the land's production is a very complex project. A decision simply needs to be made. So there is a measure of uncertainty as to how much cost a government fund will be lost because of the bill being recommended here. Obviously, the cost will include finality. will depend on the number of people who make use of the resources and the amount of payment paid for each employee, but the impact assessment with the bill is beginning to give themselves a specific basis. It is estimated that the gross cost of paying part of an enterprise's pay will be worth a total of 27 billion dollars, regardless of all withdrawal teams that could come into existence. One way to look at this is to visualize all the companies in the country that have suffered a 75% loss of income, and many may anticipate a small income in the months ahead of 27 billion dollars. A account from the people working for them can be asked if the nonprofit companies will be able to live up to this 27 billion account. There's one way to get to it. These 27 billion are aimed at 90% of the employees working in travel services and related articles and having a new part - time job working together with the paypayers at their posts, a total of 12,500. It happens indirectly through the companies, of course. In other words, we are referring to the premise that 90% of the employees involved in travel services and related articles have been using part - time witnessing. We especially choose travel services because it is characteristic of those with over 75% of revenues. They are actually given the information, and support comes to them. These are some 12,500 persons of the total 36,000 who have been part - time workers. Similarly, if a person is looking at the core of a social security minister, we can see the estimated cost of 20,000,25,000 people following part - time work. If we take these two sizes and put them together, we'll get about the number of people who have been part - time workers. It is proper to note that in this cost assessment of 27 billion it has not been taken into account the cost that a government fund might have had to bear to a considerable extent, e.g. ... witha bill of remuneration,it would be a failure. It is very difficult to tell how many companies would have run out without action and to what extent they could have paid half the pay. I've been here to argue that a smaller part of them would have had a chance. I think that's a very realistic assessment. We can see this by the way many people use their part - time work and the nature of the company coming into the summer under the conditions that are now in travel service, there will be no income for many months, and they would have been in serious trouble without action. Here, too, it must be seen that employers who have the support should make money with it so that apart from the expense that most likely would have fallen on a trust fund, the income transfer and tax that the government fund has hoped for in the future is the result. We can imagine a company after the tax losses of the previous year and the current year, possibly next year as well, would pay income taxes sooner if they get through these difficulties. The taxpayers will return sooner, which is positive, even if their support, as it does here, is obviously higher than expected tax returns. Then, the other factors I've been here to mention, the damage to our homes, are that we were less equipped to get a powerful kick when it comes to publishing, which is the basis for legalizing these options. I've been tracking this through the income transfers, from incidents to the estimating loss of the previous year. The rest of the money is put in cash, which will be paid in the next six years, as I traced earlier. The effects of this arrangement on tax revenue will largely depend on the results of the next year's larger companies, which are more likely to pay higher taxes. While the fund is unsolved, a professional driver is forbidden to pay out money, unsolved bonuses, and to buy his own letters, as I traced to the beginning of my speech. However, there is an alternative to paying back unsolved funds, which is probably to mention, since it is not excluded that some part of the money could be recovered until otherwise if this option was not available. We know of a company that has been very successful in recent years but is now in a lot of trouble. By means of the sun's light, they may be in a very good business before long, so in some cases they may want to pay off this commitment by making it faster, and this will lead to greater payoffs to the State. So, of course, we can ask ourselves, " What would the bill of Social Affairs look like if we didn't have this bill at the council? ' Would the thresholds be equal? Would this not be a little more extensive? Would we not assume that the people who will benefit from this way would have had to rely on that resources and that the expense issues caused by the issue would have been more extensive? I'd like to argue that without this direction, we would have been forced to extend the partial improvement process with lower thresholds. The expense issues in this matter must be watched in a relative relationship with the community minister's bill. When I have put this together, especially what is involved in the income transfer and what would have fallen into a state fund without action, the bill provides a strong estimate that the impact of these factors on the contribution of a government fund could study about 12 billion. Thus, it can be calculated to an estimated 15 billion cost, i.e. to 27 billion drop to 15 billion, but I have to reiterate in all this discussion how excessive the uncertainty is. It will be very difficult to decide at some point what would have occurred if we had not done this but had done something different. A respectable president. At the end of my case, I want to reiterate that with the resources laid down in the bill, the aim is to ensure the rights of the employee and to reduce the likelihood of the number of corporate failures and the financial costs it may be due to them. In today's economic and unsupervised economy, companies may have a chain effect, and all of this can lead to loss of knowledge and investment and damage to social stability. Therefore, this bill is a very important link in the chain of action that has now been introduced to the council for treatment. Therefore, I think it is particularly important that the bill be fulfilled and suggested that it be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee following this discussion and then the 2nd. At the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u30	A respectable president. We're talking about bill to legalize pay and notice. I'd like to ask the highest. Financial Minister: Given what has happened before, in the initials submitted and in these rescue missions, i.e. that those who have not really needed it have been taking advantage of this - a very successful business, and even just paid tens of billions of dollars for profit - I wonder if he does not feel normal for the Ministry of Justice, e.g. Set up a button like this where the public could - we've approved the CDC for the informant's protection - monitor it, watch it, that this path is not abused? [[The president calls.]] As a result, people who saw that these abuses were being taken into the Ministry's website and could record abuse. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u31	A respectable president. Only first of all have we seen many people abuse previous options. I have to draw attention to the fact that government funds due to part-time reforms have never gone to companies. They have only been received directly from the labour oce to employees. An employer who has made such a deal after the job requirements of the employee. The company has not been allowed to enjoy the services of the employees who have been on the budget or received a single cent from the state funds. This is very important to bear in mind. I think that with the basic conditions that are found in this bill, that only those who have experienced a 75% loss of income may have the right to do so, apart from other conditions, to get the resources, it is quite clear that it is possible that some company will be able to abuse it, or are we not sure to agree that these companies are not in any particular good business that has lost the brother's income? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u32	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Businesses that have made on the toe and finger lately and that are very well supported can take advantage of this. They can simply reason: We just don't pay money for the next few years, not for what we have and do for this. Then there is another: Are we, the State, not just helping a company drop 12,500 people and put on unemployment records?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u33	A respectable president. It's just a few blocks away. A senator that we would normally not be wondering if we were here to provide enterprises that are very well off, with very much money, very much cash, some kind of support. But here we are in very unique circumstances, very special, not just here, but in many lands. I don't see what kind of company it was. A senator would want to start making use of the resources and to pay for their money. It's very clear in the bill that it doesn't work out. In fact, there is a very serious penalty if a person violates the law. Regarding the last question, on the fact that a company is being assisted in the resignation, I refer to less earlier words about the state of the world. There would be a lot of business today if it were not for supportive measures. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u34	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance and economics whether I'm not properly understood that it's only in section 4. the bill that can lead to the rejection of the candidate on material grounds is a requirement not to be overlooked by public fees. Other conditions require that specific legal data be submitted only. Nothing is said about whether or not their material could lead to a demonstration. No authority seems to be available. The Icelandic company owned by a foreign company or an individual who has returned the available data, including information about the real foreign owner, will thus fall under the legal authority. This union does not depend on CFC rules as it is not owned by a foreign partner but can pay its owner or its partner in a low tax area for all its profits in the form of interest, services pay, rights and so on, and so on, with reduced or wiped out the tax stock in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u35	A respectable president. I'm not entirely sure that I would trust to answer a question as accurate as this one was raised. But I hear it a bit. A senator is saying, it seems, she is concerned that some foreign company with Iceland's activities, through the Icelandic legislation probably, because the only ones who have an unlimited tax service in Iceland can reimburse their resources. I don't quite understand the inquiry, what it is. A senator believes that he is missing on the bill. But I'd like to start by pointing out that we're talking about a company that's got an operation in Iceland that's had a 75% or more income drop.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u36	Mr. President. Where the highest. A minister may not seem to quite understand what I'm asking him, but I'd like to give him another example. In recent years, a small number of Icelandic citizens have had a foreign tax residence, particularly in London, because of certain tax laws there on income from other countries. Their basic income is often the possession of Icelandic partners. Among them are those who are believed to have moved property out of the country through the collapse, and it is estimated that some of them were involved in Icelandic associates by means of the use of Iceland's New World Bank. It was also shown in the Namibia and Cyprus language of Samherja that funds from that problem were used in this way to form holdings in Icelandic communities. Is it true that the unions of these organizations can be confident of receiving strength from a government fund according to this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u37	A respectable president. I have to admit, I think the inquiry is pretty confusing. In general, there are many Icelandic people living in London, who have some sort of work in Iceland, and who enjoy tax laws there, since they are expected to have a tax law on the basis of individuals. I don't know why. One member of the United States wants the government to take some measures to prevent this. But what we're getting from here is that the companies themselves in Iceland, the Icelandic legislatures, which have an economic significance in Iceland, and they have workers working for themselves, and they've been hit by a income crash. We're worried about the employees, and we're making sure that pay, pension rights, and holiday will be paid all the time that a collective contract allows, up to three months. Without a ruling, their status would be very bad. In case of a moment. A senator believes that we should change the tax laws we need to discuss them in another matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u38	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister and would like to bring in a little something he said. V.E.G. In a speech, a minister said that it was difficult to assess the likelihood of success in this regard and that I would like to agree with it. But I would like to look at only those companies who have been considering alternatives to the information. It has come as a result of criticism that this is actually an encouraging experience, and when it was announced at one of the press conferences, it was followed by reports. There are companies who want to try to stay in their employees and would be more useful in continuing to make part-change, thus maintaining recruitment relations with their employees. Has something been diagnosed yet, topv. Minister, how many companies could possibly want to continue the part-change process and want to see it extended even up to the end of the year, versed that way, and just break down the recruitment relationship? [[The president calls.]] There's a missing diagnosis, I think, on these two paths.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u39	A respectable president. What I would like to say first is that at the time we decided to take part - time, part - time relief, we have no reason to determine it for two and a half months in advance because of the uncertainty. What has been explained in the meantime is that the economic effects of this epidemic are one of the most recent findings in the entire century, not just in Iceland, but in a international level. In such a situation, it is clear that we need to take unusual action. It's going to be hard to appreciate this, but we're assuming here that those who can live on pay will continue on the part-change process. However, it increases by the end of June to 50%. It is absolutely certain that the enterprises that are characteristic of those we are thinking in this matter will not only be very difficult to keep 25% of the salary but it is absolutely impossible that they could meet the criteria for the extension of the 50% share-improvement process. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u40	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister and understand exactly what he's saying. There are companies who can't help telling employees, and we're trying to stop mass failure. I agree that this is important because of the loss of natural precious experiences and other experiences, and if there is a shortage of expenses, it can be very costly. Still, I feel like I'm missing, e.g. Within the legal committee's work - we're talking about a lot of money going into this, 27 billion I think it's the highest. A minister has said before - not to see how many companies have become so troubled that they will not continue their part - help process, for example, and will simply go bankrupt. At least these figures have I not seen within the committee, and in fact, I have requested a memo on it. But I would have thought it would be necessary to get some sort of overview, if that's possible, over how many companies there are that are seriously ill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u41	A respectable president. We have clues from surveys made by the Organization of Employment, and of course, we also see evidence in Economics figures. I explained in advance that we were assuming that 90% of the companies working for tourism and related branches and that they have been on part-time work will take advantage of this strategy. When a man puts together the bill of Social Affairs and this bill, it's a rough thing to see how we appreciate it. You're right. One senator says that it would not be bad to have an even clearer picture of what is likely to happen, but there are times when we need to make decisions without living in that luxury. I'm just stressing that the bill that the Minister of Justice can provide will be a resource that will benefit many and even companies who are going to look for it. [[The president calls.]] It's really a variety and a variety of measures that together will solve the problem, I believe.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u42	Mr. President. It is to be delighted that these bills we are discussing today have come to light. They're complicated in many ways, and I'm not going far into them at this brief time here, but I wanted to ask the highest. Secretary of the budget for the release of information. I notice that in the bill now, a special article on how it is permitted to publish information about those who have the support of the State in this way. First, I would like to ask: Why is it chosen to publish only names, not bills, and leave them with the general rules of information law? Is it not proper for governments to take the initiative to fully inform this? And finally, because it is decided directly to enter the law and, in fact, the bill of Social Affairs as well, whether it is not proper to take away all the ambiguity, support loans, and mortgages in the same way. [[The president calls.]] We want everything on the table, don't we?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u43	A respectable president. It is true that we wanted to take this point into account on the release of information about the enterprises that use this resources. I think there's reason to draw only attention to the difference between this process and the part-change process that funds follow different pathways. In the part of the improvement process, payment is directed from the labour oce to the employee at the time the company is expected to have made up with the employee the money they are applying for support and, in the case of reimbursement to the company. That's even. Because some of the economics of employment companies have previously been told by the General that specific rules need to be met. In view of this, it was right not to go further on this bill than to say that the companies will be on the list but that financial information has the rules established by the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u44	Mr. President. I want to focus on other things, and it's that there are conditions, natural, that companies and/or employees, or how that is exactly possible to enjoy this support. I see these conditions have been harmonized pretty much, but I have to ask the highest. The secretary of finance to the bill of his fellow minister, who is now moved at the same time, is required to have no more than 3 million earners in the past month. And I ask, isn't it true that there are conditions between these proceedings? What's the bottom line? In general, the secretary of finance on the need to establish conditions for which individuals in the companies are paying? Does he agree with that method?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u45	A respectable president. In general, in terms of pay paid to managers in large companies, I feel that there should not be any rules on these matters at the council. On the other hand, those who say that there is a problem, that those who have made a big deal of pay and then become in the position of applying to the public to keep their commitments unfounded twice. In that bill as good as any. A senator refers to no direct intervention, but there is a chance of improving his ways, I would say. That's exactly what it's all about. It was not part of the work that went on this bill to set such rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u46	Mr. President. There is no doubt that our discussion here is due to a serious economic crisis that we, like other nations, have suffered because of the struggle of the virus. Here, though, there is a danger that the lowing could become even deeper than in many other countries because our life of employment is not varied enough, and the most serious - impacted tourism is much more of our income than is known in our neighboring countries. Already tens of thousands of companies are out of work or on stocks and thousands of companies do not know whether they live or die. The bill we discussed was first introduced to a press conference three weeks ago. They think about meeting the problems of the companies that have lost income because of the epidemic and especially the tourism. It is very good for the government to get used to preparing such bills, but three weeks is a long time, especially when people have legitimate expectations at the time they were presented at press conferences. But let it go. First, I want to say that I understand the purpose of the bill and that I have a positive attitude toward the need for many things in it, and that's right by the highest level. Secretary of finance that it is necessary for a company to reorganize and even scale so that they have a lot of resistance and can start at a controlled cost at the end of the code. However, there are a few things we in the United States would like to include a question mark. First, I feel that it is unacceptable to offer this route now without the government's introduction with a huge effort to create new jobs. Icelanders are hardworking, and nobody wants to sit home and get paid to do nothing. We need to have faster hands, create new and varied jobs that replace lost ones because not all of them will be back soon, unfortunately. This must apply to a private company as well as to a government company. We'll be at least To see some plan. We in the United States have had some suggestions and other government groups as well as members of the workforce and interest groups. It is simply such a situation in society today that it should not matter where good ideas come from. So I would like to use this opportunity to encourage the government to be noble and to consult with all these parties. A minister will tell you that the right employee is being assured. In this context, it is natural to require that the benefit of the employee be maintained for more than three months. That is why a great deal of work is vital. In view of this and second, I am absolutely forbidden to understand when it comes to helping companies reveal themselves in roughs, that no actions are introduced to meet the loss of these same individuals and homes that will be affected in three months' time. The maximum income-related unemployment improvement today is 456,000. and last only three months until people who are looking for a job fall on written benefits. This is 289,000 k. a month before taxation. Then I'm afraid there will be quite serious places in many homes. I'm worried about those people. That is why it is very serious that the majority of the shares lost the Community's correction of moderate unemployment improvements. I think that, unfortunately, the chairmans of the council judged many families in the country to a great deal of hardship and hardship over the next few months. Looking forward to a long - term lack of employment of 103/4,15%, it is 20,000,300,000 people. I was kind of surprised to hear a bunch of government officials coming up here in a vote and talking about how the operation and rising unemployment improvements were not timely, not necessary at this stage. They may want to talk to the people who are losing their jobs with their own income but who have fixed expenses in various areas, and they wonder how they pay their bills, their city of their house, their car, their leisure time for their children, and so on in the months that follow. In this context, except for the economic consequences of these people, I also fear for people's spiritual well - being, what faces this uncertainty. Although the people who are now on notice do not fall in there in the fall - and they may be the members of the state of state who deny that they are not at the right time - this message would at least sound. merely the people who will face a very difficult fall, I don't talk about in November that will be a very difficult month. Finally, in the context of this work discussion, we must discuss the ambiguity of all students. The island is here now, spoke to a student, Jóna Þórey Pétursdóttir, in Silfranu for the weekend. At that time, she meant that her spring years were over but still will advertise these thousands of jobs. And many students, some of whom have to be on their own, even raising children and driving homes, have no idea how to live for the rest of the summer, let alone get back to school. Mr. President. So we in the Union well understand the need for drastic action and will support action in the interests of vigorous employment to speed up corporate resistance, whereas we seem to have a lack of understanding of the steps needed to ensure the well - being of the public of the country. Let us keep our companies as good as possible. It is predictable that more than a proportion of tourism companies will need at least ... tossedit. But we would have liked to see more money in innovation, and we have also pointed out the benefits of a full - time ministry that is not unnecessary in order to make people who are now leaving behind a promise that they can get a job in the fall. However, according to BSBA statistics, the increase in the number of public workers has studied over 600 points over a period of ten years. That's 1.5%. At the same time, however, the population has increased by 10.5%. So it's by all cook books a relative reduction. Today, e.g. Less police than were 10 years ago. All of them know the basics of very many important medical institutions. I'm not saying that the increase in public employees or their high share of employment is a goal in itself. But when you look at the stage, it is obvious that this can be used to create work for people, and it is as good as getting into the cracks that have formed in our welfare systems. These are just the institutions we've been praising, every senator in every speech and conversation we've gone to, for doing a great job; the hospitals, the nursing homes, the schools. So why not prepare these institutions for us to make us safe from the cradle to the grave? That's at least Don't waste any more than I think most of us would agree on. Most members of the Parliament have reported that many political parties have, in fact, broken pots. Let's use this opportunity now, please. You see, it takes protecting the welfare, the highest. Ministers, as much as it takes to protect the economy in the country. This bill is spoken of as costing the state budget of about 30 billion. I think that's probably a modest figure. At the same time, however, it is being protected from a fraction of it in a welfare service, which is certainly also an investment and necessity. Mr. President. All we have to do is ask the government to do more good, to look beyond it, and to make even more bold decisions. I'll agree with the highest. Secretary of finance who said, I think, on the first day of the Covid crisis: more than that, it needs to be done. And in this case, we need to expand our horizon. Third, I feel that the government is making far too little demands on corporate social responsibilities. According to this bill, directors are allowed to be on the supersonics. According to the bill at the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs isn't allowed to do that. I ask where the combination is between these bills, so a minister answered some extent earlier, even though I do not agree with him. But we also watch that a business with government assistance for information has the potential to take advantage of gaps found in our system so as not to return all the money to the land they should make. This may be most serious when companies make good use of societies, when citizens paying taxes abroad are involved in companies and are using various methods. When, in other words, people minimize their tax returns in this country, the question is, Should they have this support? Even if I've heard a word of the highest order. Ministers that this is primarily for employees. Of course, this is also for companies and to protect shareholders. Here I am not merely speaking of a direct violation of law, Mr. President, as some members of the government have repeatedly mentioned to mislead this discussion. You see, companies can use legal methods to reduce tax pay on the land. But what is legal can be immoral, as Vilmundur Gylfason said in his day. We all know well because there are billions of dollars in taxes, in low taxes, and in other ways to prevent them all from coming in the Kingdom box, which is so necessary for them. This money would likely have gone to finance what I was talking about earlier; our school, our health care, and other factors that attract us to our well - being and security throughout our lives. And now that we see the largest economic crisis in 100 years, I don't think that we should use the limited resources we have to support those who don't give full community responsibility and perhaps think more of our own wallets. I must ask again, because of what. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson asked earlier: "How is it that these two paths do not have the same conditions? I didn't think there was a valid answer to that. I wondered if it should be so that the bills will be incomplete for the council, and then the committees will have something to do with it. Then they go into effect, and then there's always a second and a third round because it's obvious that the new parts of the process and the conditions there are reacting to the discussion that has taken place for one month in which people are being overfished. Mr. President. Finally, we have been standing in this storm for two to three months and although much has been done, especially the work that has been done by the health authorities, but now let it go, the political reaction has been shocking. I'll also see through my fingers about not always coming the right answer when it comes to completely unprecedented situations. But now that we're beginning to figure this out and see out of the code, you have to call for more perspective, a clearer plan of action, and at least Looking to some kind of future policy that could lay the groundwork for a more reasonable, healthier, reasonable society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u47	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A fine speech for the Logi of Einarsson's son. At the end of a lot of things, he came in or complained that the government, or government, was bringing an incomplete case into the council, and then it had to be cleaned up. But is that not our place? Do I not agree with the senator that in this way the council shows a measure of its strength, taking matters away from the government? In the present situation, it may even be even less surprising that there is a need to respond on the way to a decision. I'd like to know if the senator doesn't agree with me in that very frequent and frequent way. I know why. I don't think a senator would agree that the council might, in his view, have approved more political legislation, may well be the viewpoint of the senator. But the second point is that many suggestions made on the Senate committee have come out of a conversation between the members of the state and the state council members and that is exactly what makes things better, and I would like to hear a member of the council to to tore up whether it is not exactly our job here to do this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u48	Mr. President. Yes, my God Almighty, that's exactly what we've done here, and to some extent we've done it well. However, I have felt that the government's members have little faith in their previous political views and policies when they have sided with the right forces and that only one adjustment has been adopted from the government. We've made a vote with all the laws of the government because even if they're not all good, they're better than nothing. They're good, but I say, they're not good enough. But I'd like to take up words as quick as possible. A senator said earlier, in the present condition. Of course, in the current situation, the government should have used the forward hand of the government opposition and call us to the table in preparing legal bills so presented here, as has been the custom in various countries around us. It would have at least reduced delays in the work done and would surely have also made the bills better. I'm almost positive. What I mean so far is that, as a result of the second part of the improvement, there are conditions that were not readily accepted in the committees, including putting a roof on the employer's salary and other items that were probably mentioned at committee meetings. But it is not gone far enough. But, yes, the council is important, but it would have been necessary to be more involved in this project, which was merely the subject of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u49	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. The Senator mentioned precisely that only one suggestion of the government resistance had been adopted, and as far as the Senate knows, this proposal to change the law on unemployment insurance was a very good proposal from which. paritaprevir "Odduja G. Oddný Harðardóttir " well known by the senators. The Senator also came back to what he called noncommunications, and I know about it, just as the senator knows about it, that the president of the political parties and the Supreme Court. The prime minister has had some meetings in which he and his wife have been introduced to and what is going on. Now I don't like that meeting, but I'm not. A senator does. He may be able to provide some information about what is taking place there. But as far as it goes as it goes, I think it's about a pair of people with what happens in other northern countries. The other should be seen as natural, as we do not tire out, in some unprecedented circumstances, and some things must work very fast. The nature of the matter, as I and the senator clearly agree, does not always introduce matters to the council. But as for what the senator said about the signals now being placed in the part-change process that we're not here, I can't remember that it appeared here in the Senate room some loud voices about further conditions when it was given the bill. They certainly did not take much effort to catch up with them. The welfare committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u50	Mr. President. Yes, they were indeed heard, at least Here at the Senate Hall. But because of him. A senator quotes the agreement that the government has had with the presidents of the opposing parties, and unfortunately I must inform them. A senator that the head of his party has not yet told him the truth about that consultation, unless it is thought to agree to assemble the presidents of the anti - held parties for an hour and a half to two before a press conference to tell us what we can see on TV two hours later. That's not a tip, is it? Senator. And if it's the highest. Prime Minister has said something else about his party, that's just a very serious thing. I think she said on the line two weeks ago when I was there, that she wrote in her memoirs six meetings. Then I'll just tell you what. A senator said there were no consultations, there were information meetings. Or who would the senator consider the possibility that the government would have responded to our indications where it was known that the government was going directly after the meeting in the Harpa to report its actions? It's a sham. There's no consultation. Regarding our proposals, they were attempts to take on larger and necessary steps to cope with this crisis. And the members of the board of directors took note of the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance that it should do more than less, and do less than more.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u51	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to legalize government funds because of paying part of the pay on notice. I have to say, as it is, only the bill's headline is absolutely strange, paying part of the payoffs. It's kind of a payout on notice. You can't make it. But I'm sorry, it's just amazing times. The main evidence for the partial improvement was that employment contracts need to be maintained between employee and employer. Here, however, it is taking steps in the opposite direction and the greater likelihood of the resignations of a population of 12,500 people. According to a bill report, it is estimated that the state will pay their dues on a notice of 12,500 people. These are striking numbers, and they're kind of weird. The bill suggests that the individual's failure to make any money or to buy his or her share or to make similar arrangements from March 15 of the year, while those who are rich have already paid for interest, billions. That's a fact. In fact, over the past decade, a large number of companies have made a lot of money. These companies will be able to use pay downstances during notice, but they should not be. We're supposed to have increased company owners' requirements that they don't invest in their own companies, and stakeholders of profitable enterprises should not enjoy subsidies without having to take their own chances. But there's just, I think, you know, you know, you know, you're just putting some company together with both shoulder ties and belts to make sure they don't have to live up to their own commitments. We're to demand reinvestmentors before we demand taxpayers to reimburse exposés, which is absurdd to be above their heads. Government activities are to be aimed at securing jobs, not on the ground. This is not a guarantee for the interests of employee, but their salary is at notice when loyalty in the guarantee fund of pay is guaranteed. It's only easy for companies to resign. The bill forbids certain measures until subsidies are paid or reimbursed. It says: After March 15, 2020, a labor worker has not determined the distribution of money, reduced stocks by payment to shareholders, bought his own things, made out of other payments to owner on the basis of his property, paid unsaid bonuses, paid by evasive loans for dues, or given to the owner or to the owner of a loan or other non-final, insurance, or maintenance of income. At the same time, he commits himself not to make any of the above arrangements until the financial support has been fully paid according to Article 8. or reimbursed according to Article 9. After making the money money, the company can take these measures. A bill on continued partial improvement measures also provided conditions for government assistance. They are not used in other ways. Interestingly, similar measures do not have comparable conditions. Does not the government have uniform measures for such related matters? It doesn't seem to be. The bill on continued partial improvement measures shows more requirements for enterprises that use the partial reform method than for the new 7 mg. The XIII provisional principle is not clear enough. It says by permission of the President: Then the employer is expected to confirm that during the period between June 1, 2020, and May 31, 2020, he is not planning to pay interest, reduce money from shareholders, pay non-employable bonuses, buy his own stock, give other fees to owners on the basis of their ownership, pay from an exorbitant loan for days, lend a loan to the owners, or other nonreaching budgets, insurance, or retaining interest to his owners or seniors as a monthly wage greater than 3,000,000. to whom, as appropriate. 3 million per month. It's kind of amazing. Employers only have the obligation to confirm at the moment when they apply for partial improvements that they do not intend to perform some of the above list. He is not obliged to do any of these in the season. It would have to be said that during the period the employer is not allowed to do the following in the period. As I earlier noted in this discussion, there are always some who find ways to cheat such a system. A few years ago, the debate was that people were cheating on the large - scale micropower system, which would be billions below. It was acted quickly, put up a double-cross button, and it could be sent out without a nameless scheme, and it was actually given a bullet release on micromask at the time. We know that some people always cheat in there, and those who may have been cheating on the disability relief system were rare people who had the right to be in there because I don't think others would even try to cheat in there. But here we are talking about a much larger amount, and no question about how tempting it would be for someone to cheat on that system. Not many, I'd say 99% is honest, but there can always be 1% of people who are ready to cheat. That's why I said it was a good idea to set up a button on the financial network, which is why the secretary of finance, where they could be identified, if any realized that it was being betrayed by public funds from government funds. It's much better and easier to do this now because we've been discussing the protection laws of informers and, as the law is, the public is exposed, if they are aware of it, to inform them of massive cheating. We also know that there are companies who are in a position to cheat on the system and in recent years have shown it. They can get away with money, avoid paying taxes, avoid paying capital taxes, place money in societies. These are not individual enterprises, a number of companies have made good use of these ways. We also know that they have a chance to take advantage of the ways we deal with them here, which, of course, will suck and will have to make sure that they can't. There is something else that we must also look at in this context, and there are the numbers given here. That's 600,000 bucks. In the maximum pay, and even 85,000 bucks. which deal with the pension fund and pay remuneration, so it's about 700,000 bucks. And we have a maximum wage not to exceed 3 million. That is probably about 30 billion. We can relate it to the fact that this was a proposal for the council, where we at the stand asked for about a hundred thousand dollars. the sole payment for social security, disability, and older citizens, and in the context that the only thing the poor have received is 20,000. one payment coming next month, tax-free. But we haven't seen a single word about what to do for older people. In today's condition, this is doomed. I have received information, and I have been told that people are taking medication in order payment, even trying to get a small loan in order to cover the costs of medicine or food. It sucks to know that there seems to be unlimited funds, not 30 billion, but up to 300 billion, in everything but the social system, the social security system. There were about 8 billion people who have been absorbed in the very large and extensive material, thus bringing little in on themselves. It is hard to believe, then, that there seems to be money in the state's budget for reporting, but there is no money in the government budget for drugs or food for those who really need it. We also have to ask ourselves, " If this goes out in the way it looks, cost up to 200 to 300 billion in this Covid deal, what will be the situation after Covid? ' What will be the situation next year? Where, then, will the wide banks be found? As it has so far been, in government by government, this government will find wide banks for senior citizens, microplies, low-payers, joblesss, and students. It is surprising that at the same time you watch payment on pay due to post notice, students who have even worked 80% of their jobs have no right to unemployment. Yet, they have already paid for it and should according to all the right to obtain unemployment. No. But payoffs, yes, pay. There's plenty of money in it, but not a dollar for those who've already paid on the job insurance. This is so weird. Sadly, it must be said just as it is that the matter is unconcerned and not fair.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u52	Mr. President. A bill of what we're discussing here is part of the government's third operation package for the virus epidemic and its impact on the economy as we all know it. Clearly, the reason the government is adding adverse measures is that the basis for previous packages has been underestimated. We in the Central Party have been critical of this in the past. The government is showing by economic measures due to the viral epidemic at small doses that have obviously not worked, and this is just so that microdose healing has not been sufficiently effective in general. In this discussion, and in connection with the government's list of measures, we have repeatedly pointed out that it was immediately to be brought up by major and general measures; otherwise, a precious period of time would be lost and a company would grow up, and a number of jobs would be lost. There is an enormous amount of value in the workers in these companies, such as the tourism sector, which is the most challenging, each day valuable in these sectors, that the situation does not arise that the companies need to surrender. Therefore, it is important that all resources be available and generally available and be saved when necessary. All the cramps in these materials are very bad. In addition, we have regularly pointed out that the measures need to be simple and get started quickly. There's been a shortage of the government. We've seen it, e.g. how difficult it was to get the budget done. I think there's a handful of companies talking about that way with financial institutions. I think it started just last week, more than a month after the case was approved here. This shows that it is not well held on the project program on the part of the government. So now it's time to get your credit loans started to work, and you're afraid that the same things will happen there. All of this can be very damaging. Clearly, the expectations for rapid economic benefits have not been realized, unfortunately. Of course, we hoped that this would pass quickly, and visitors would come. Sadly, the matter has not evolved into that situation. But it is clear that almost all exports have been hit. The recession in the economy during the period of the meeting ban has been a major problem in tourism, as well as a strong recession in demand for many other economic sectors. We know this; these have been the result of some basic services. But there is also the possibility that domestic consumption and demand are taking longer than expected and hoped. Of course, there is a great deal of unemployment. The tourism service recently published a report from KPMG, which she had worked for. It reminds us that the tourism service owes 300 billion dollars. and she's practically out of income. This is an article that is now nearly empty of income that owes 300 billion. These loans need to be paid naturally, so the article is in a very difficult place right now, and it has created about 40% of currency income, and some 20,000 people have had a job in this article. So the problem is very big, and that's why, as I say, it's very important that these measures help. I just wanted to mention it here, because I talked about the debt of tourism being about 300 billion, that we also have to look to banks and financial institutions on that subject. It's a natural loan, both for real estate partners and for the indirect loans that are available for tourism and then for direct loans. A total of 300 billion. Then there are the investments of pension funds and others through funds, etc., registered communities, which are also behind them. Keep in mind that the bank's own account was at the end of 2018. 630 billion k. The worst scene if there were a mass failure in this article -- we're all agreed on that and we're trying to work on it that it's not going to happen, and this bill is pointing to it, and I'm getting closer to that -- it could be that 50% of the bank's own money would be lost from loans to tourism companies. The question, then, is how it affects financial companies. They're to be borrowed, and so on.? Then one of them is bound to fail. The situation is very serious, and it is therefore very important that the activities proposed on the bill pay the notice, yield the desired results. V.E.G. In his background, the minister of finance mentioned that the results could not be determined. I agree with him that it's difficult. However, there is a lack of analysis of a number of enterprises on my account. At any rate, we have not been able to see it and to mention in this relationship only, because I mentioned that 25,000 people are working in this article, that if we specifically take out Southnes out where the situation is very serious, the unemployment of approaching 30%, the summer 2017 was only 6,000 people at the Cheflavour Airport. Then there are countless other work to do in the area. This shows a natural close link between communicative activity at the Cheflaví airport and the local farm society income. It's all playing together, and that's why it's very urgent that we bring in operations in time that can minimize the damage we are facing. It is clear that the tourism service must get the necessary loans so as to take a breath, so to speak, and to receive tourists when they return where they will not be far off, we hope so. However, another course of action approved last week was disappointing. Its scope, according to officials, is about 60 billion. It was promoted in the form of supportive loans and postponing tax pay on profits useful to small companies, very small with limited resources, some call it a microcompany. In fact, the support loans made significant changes in the conduct of the Committee and the right to maintain it. However, many of these enterprises face serious financial problems and may not be able to pay the part of their salary for several months. Because of the same reason, it is clear that companies are unable to pay their resignations, and that is the idea behind the bill as we know it. I had in the early stages certain doubts about this process, and you've heard of it, when you've spoken to the leaders of the companies who've wanted to go another way, to be an encouragement to bullshit, i.e. that the state is encouraging companies to resign. We saw that there was a wave of news after the government announced that they were going to pay a notice. There are certain companies who would have wanted to go another way that has criticized this. V.E.G. The minister of finance also mentioned in his talk that companies are out of control with the conditions of the part-change process, and of course they need to be discussed further. I would have thought that we would have had to have some data on the number of enterprises that would have been wanting to go another way, wanting to go part-back, and would have wanted to see it extended verses that simply do not handle it and are in need of this package of action, i.e. Paying for your notice. This is essential information that needs to be on hand when we go through this, and I have called for a special financial memo to help with this. There are a certain number of companies that want to stay in their employees and would benefit better if they stayed on their part-change route than they are about to start changing it. It is certainly extended, but with new conditions. I think, in connection with this case, it's necessary to get an analysis in this context, i.e. How many companies would be more useful in continuing on the part-way and how many companies can't pay their notice. However, I have a clear understanding that it is important to keep these companies from mass failures and the general article. As we understand, there is a great risk that not only financial values go to the courtyards but also important knowledge and experience, which, if well thought of, is an obvious benefit to the future. This is just so that the number of fees in this article is no solution and the general cost of tourism companies will greatly inhibit the structure of the article again and even for years. Thus, there is much to do in this regard. The central category supports this bill, and we have supported all the bills on the part of the government that have aimed at improving the situation towards companies and households in this difficult year tour and in these difficult situations. We thus show responsibility in such matters. We've made quite a few suggestions, and I've told them before. We've made adjustments to the budget proposals that have been given and approved here, and we've offered suggestions in the media. We have sent suggestions to the prime minister. Sadly, nothing has been listened to our proposals and adjustments to our funds. That, of course, is sad. It seems that way on the part of the government, like what? paritaprevir As for Logi Einar Einarsson Einarsson in his speech, it seems that it does not matter where the suggestions come from. The government groups are asking for advice and suggestions, but it seems to be a bit showy in it. Fortunately, though, some changes have been made in the Committee's work, which I mention, e.g. the support loans that made important changes in the activities of the Committee. Granted, something has happened to the government. But it's a bit loud, I think, on the part of the government that it always cancels all the things that come out of the government on this matter. We're all in this work together, trying to get out of these economic difficulties, and there's nothing to think about where the suggestions come from. If the export is not entirely pleasing to humans, they should simply say so and cooperate with the opposition of the government. In the Middle East, we have wanted to see more activities in particular in the tourism business. We would have wanted to see that all the domestic loans of tourism were frozen until the end of 2021. It's a very important operation. In addition, real estate bills pay which depend on these enterprises will be frozen for 24 months without interest. It is very important to try to keep these enterprises going and to try to keep them in the recruitment relationship, not to encourage information that seems to be done with this bill, even though it is important in many ways and we support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u53	A respectable president. It is certain that it is often easier to be wise afterward, and the issues we discuss today will show us that the part - improvement process that was laid up with it at its time was possibly not the right tool, simply because the space it was intended for a bridge was much broader than was expected. The shareback route may be fine for a small company, which was done by law to close for a month or two, but for companies who are seen to be nonprofit, even until the fall, is more than simply to continue paying a quarter of the staff's salary. Therefore, we are here today to discuss a bill that carries with us the hard news that 90% of the people who have benefited from travel services will be expected that this bill will be agreed and the state will step in and pay them pay on notice. 90% is a large number, but that's a lot of the individuals too. These are 12,000 people, who are somewhat affected by the fact that by the end of April 16,000 people were on unemployment record. I'd like to talk to you about it, because it's the highest. Financial and economic minister urged us to look into the context, on the one hand this bill and, on the other, the highest bill in particular. Department of Social Affairs for extension of the part-change process because, as we consider this in context, it is creating quite a lot of financial motivation for the narrative. The company is very limited, and it is likely that, no matter how the bill works, it will be revealed. A company today who is struggling to pay a quarter of their employees' wages will soon have to pay half of their pay, but will instead only receive the work supply from the employees who are equal to the pay, 25% today and soon 50%. On the other hand, if the company chooses to go here, the cost to 0 will fall, but the work effort may be 100%. It seems that some companies have made good use of themselves, to keep the work going during the summer, but this activity is being run by people on notice. This should be considered as normal. Normally, a hired person works out an notice unless there are other jobs between the person and the employer. But there are other circumstances. This is another tool, and I hope so. This was carefully examined by the Economic and Business Committee. I'm not going to walk as far as Ragnar Þór Ingólfsson, president of the VR, who said it was immoral of companies to demand employment from employees on notice in this situation. But it is not lying down in a den as high as possible. The minister said in his transmission address. If an enterprise takes advantage of a resolution scholarship to run up the business, it's certainly not a living thing. Then I'd like to mention here one thing that may lead to what we're doing in the middle of a great fog, and I don't quite know what's ahead. This is the importance of ensuring the right of the remuneration staff, which will go through the excerpt on these grounds when it comes to the possibility of reimbursement of an enterprise and especially that the employer does not get some sort of clean table, that the employees do not lose the acquired rights they have to go through the reporting process. But something else that needs to be thought - or the question that needs to be asked - is: How many people have the hope of being counseled? That analysis, that pattern, does not appear in the bill's report. But this is something that we need to think about because the group that could become a major part of the person who will be quit in the next few weeks, the group that will not be hired by the company after three months has to look for other jobs. Then we come to what is commonly called in the transparency of the government, because, for example, these people need, e.g. to ensure a new level of education can be found. It is a project that we can test for the massive transition we can expect when the world's economic system changes so that we can cope with climate change. Part of a fair transition is making it possible for expectant ones to change their assignment by gaining new knowledge. Then we have to start looking further into the road, and then I'm not necessarily talking far into the future but just into the autumn. There has been a lot of debate about summer jobs for people who do not normally work in the summers, but for the group that will not be resupervised, after being laid up, we need to look into the tools we know since a crash, where there were campaigns that encouraged new projects at the labour market so that the unregistered people can find a new field of activity. Just a little short on the context of this bill. Minister of Social Affairs and Child Affairs. I think I'll take my heart to the highest level. The secretary of finance that the context of these two bills must be examined because there is so much motivation, financial, and other forms, in these two cases to sweep the people really out of the part-importation process of expansion, that we even came up to the question whether they are actually putting aside the part-impliment route, whether they will be in the process of becoming the main choice of an enterprise. This was about the subject, Mr. President, and now I have one question regarding shapes I would like to make up with the President. V.E.G. Economic and economic minister said in his transport address, with president's permission: ◯ The expense issues in this matter must be watched in a specific context with the Department of Social Affairs. I'd like to ask a respectable president what that would exactly mean when another case goes to a financial and business committee and the other to a welfare committee. How will ensure that these two issues will be examined in the context at the highest level? A minister called for himself if they are members of his committee? This is something I'm looking for a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u54	The president will be looking for information to answer a question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u55	Mr. President. We are discussing matters that would not have seemed likely to be ours at some point, but there may be some indication of the particular times in which we live are special, i.e. to start paying half of your salary for notice. Today, many senators have raised questions that are completely justified, how this interacts with the part - improved process. I'm one of those who's been wondering about it, and maybe I'm the only senator who's so lucky to be both. The welfare committee and what. The Economic and Business Committee. That doesn't mean I'm not going to hide that I can answer questions. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson before I remember at least for my part, there are opportunities to keep track of both matters, which I think very important that we have an opportunity to do so. In a sense, this issue is part of the big talk and must be taken into consideration in this context, a link between all of these factors. When men first took the part-change route, I believe that few of us believed that it would be needed to extend it until the fall. Many of us believed that it would certainly be extended until the end of June, but after considering it, it may have been wise, and it's reasonable, I think, to take this step. Now we know that the problems and difficulties in the economy that come from this pandemic are going to last longer than they believed they could be at the beginning, and then this plan comes in. What it will do in some respects is unlikely to keep some companies away from going completely exhausted and thus avoid having the financial cost at the pay fund, but it is well to remember that the amount of money involved is comparable to the amount paid by responsible funds may have to be paid in such cases. It is based on the same figures in this law as in the terms of remuneration, which I think will explain a certain context as well. I feel very careful that people talk about not being listened, not being taken into account, etc. In all these matters. In this regard, I would like to point out that none of the Covid cases have gone out of the council, i.e. who accepted law, in exactly the same form or in the same manner as it came to the council. Congress has made significant changes in all its affairs. I don't think that's a coincidence, Mr. President. I think that's exactly why we're in such a changing situation, and at least I allow myself to believe that those who see the situation at the council do not see it as much as the members of the board, and therefore they've managed to improve all the matters in their dealings with the council. This I think is very important that we remember. Only specific for this bill. That's 4. The bill defined what needs to happen. That's even. suggest there is a 75% decrease in the income of an enterprise and other factors many have. Councilmen have entered, e.g. on income, taxes and duties, etc. I don't think it's going to be so clear that it's going to be very thorough. The economic and business committee, the conditions in there. I wondered if what appears in the 2nd number of the conditions, that there are many ways to get into the resource by how the income has gone down, needs to be thoroughly examined, whether it is always convenient to allow the pioneers to choose different ways of jumping into the resource. This is one of the things I'm gonna look for in particular. It's important in my opinion, which is shown in Article 5. the bill, that, in all cases, companies are expected to own part of the cost. Enterprises will not put up with this option without having any share, they will carry 15% of the cost, but support is also up to a maximum of 633,000K. a month, like I came in earlier. This is important to bear in mind. Then it's 8. on income and on the 9th. ... ofa reimbursement. I think these are very important articles because it's important for an enterprise to take advantage of this support. This generates a part of that company's tax base for that year, and it is very important. Similarly, what we see in 9 is important. .. that there are ways to get out of the system of things before it's finished and out of the criteria that I left lightly earlier, only by reimbursement of support. I think that's important to me. I think it's regulations 1 1 1. it also makes a difference about the rights of employees who are stated on the basis of these laws when an enterprise is supported by the same law. It is stated that the employee takes the priority for the job to be restored within the next 12 months after reviewing the job. It is also important, and I will tore it to rest. The Economic and Business Committee, whatever it is. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson came in earlier on whether it was reasonable for a company to get a job donation from an employee who was involved in this process during a decision. We need to take a very careful look because there may be some ambiguity to at least that it is. can be set up by the senator's position, that the company was simply using the resources to skim or keep working with the same function, and thus, by means of a public fund or by misapplication, as it is thought. On the other hand, the sign of a 75% income drop may be high anyway, but I think that this is not likely to happen, that we on the committee need to make a special examination of this and to determine if there is a basis for a firm signal in this matter or to consider in what way we can better control these concerns. I don't intend to keep this any further until now, Mr. President, but I hope so. The committee can handle the matters of opinion that I raised here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u56	President. I wanted to take advantage of it. A senator is on both welfare and economic and business committees, where this bill goes, improving possible reflection, especially from the discussion of the rightness of staff handling the notice deadline. I want to ask you one question, I know she doesn't belong at work on this bill in itself, but is part of the big picture in view of how many people are now falling into unemployment. Very likely, this bill will have the effect that much more will be added there. At least I'm worried that it will be, that there will be groups of reports on a much larger scale. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether it is time to think now to eliminate unemployment criteria, i.e. make them conditionless for some time. Would it not be beneficial for the economy to have the safety network of unemployment reformers, they would be free to jump, e.g. on projects, experiment with new projects and new items without losing your unemployment or your safety network? Would it not be beneficial for the economy and the community not to bind the hands of people with the conditions for unemployment? Only to the pioneers and innovations of this important time, where we want to activate people and give them the opportunity to experiment in new articles and new thinking.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u57	Mr. President. What an interesting question! paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen. I'm not going to argue that I thought of this before. I haven't really thought about this. In some respects, however, similar tests were made before, after a collapse. We tried, I don't remember exactly how long that would last, where men could go to work, and the state actually continued to pay a part of the employee's salary. You could say that it was one version of the part-change process. There is. I don't know if there's any reason to cancel or temporarily take away the conditions for unemployment. But I am convinced that in this whole process, since this pandemic began and until we believe our economy is coming back to kicks, we will have to look into how our unemployment system works and how unemployment insurance works. In effect, we have taken the first step in contaminating that system in the last package with the approved suggestion. paritaprevir Oddný new G. Harðardóttir. A truly small step, yet a step in trying to cope. And I reiterate that there may be other steps that we need to take.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u58	President. Then there is another speculation, perhaps more appropriate to the bill we now discuss. I've been thinking about a company that's gonna take advantage of this, but later I'm not going to be able to hire the staff back to their senses and go running out of business. Then the time will come to sell possessions and things. I could imagine that in most companies it would somehow go up to paying off debts. I wondered, " Is it not reasonable for the state to be that demanding in the company's swelling grounds? ' I haven't read the bill yet, have I? A senator corrected me if I could not see it, but for work ahead of the committee, I wondered if it was something worth considering. There could then be some condition that would be the least priority, but a government fund would have some requirement in the company's swelling complex if it has taken advantage of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's question. The Senator asked if there is any reason why the State would be a demanding company in which the company is running short of support. Remuneration will be a requirement for paying out remuneration to pay remuneration in bankrupt companies. By doing so, there will be, in effect, a state fund in that enterprise. I don't know if we can go any further than that. I imagine that the senator's requirement as a government fund could possibly be equal to the entire amount, even before the company had to fail, not just the latter part of the time. It may well be that some such token may have to be inserted into the text, that the same definition of this support is valid, while the company that is headed in itself may have to care no matter who it is, and perhaps be a source of joy to the company that the state has more demands than anyone else. This question, however, is interesting and will be interesting to examine at the beginning of the question. Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u60	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. But I wondered if there are certain disappointments. The senator and his party partner not to have a condition in this bill or anyone else that those who use tax shelter will not receive support from our common fund, which the rest of us have conscientiously paid taxes to. Senators of the left green have entered this platform and said that it is a full will for the government to pay for it, this should rule out those who use their taxes. We know exactly how the deportation of the industry was before a collapse, and there is no reason to believe that it is someone at least, and the real examples of this material are known from the media. However, section 4. nothing but a requirement for some reports to be submitted. But no material basis can be denied by those who make use of tax snow, who put on all sorts of braiding and equipment, and who do things to avoid paying in the state's funds and allow the rest of us to share their share in the welfare system. They can be well supported by this and, in fact, by others approved at the council. But it's a little different because it has more to do with the economy than with the employees, so it might be even more important to set such limits. What does it want? A senator say about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a question for a couple of years. It's a G. Harðardóttir's question. The senator asks: "Is it disappointing not to accept the fact that companies are in taxes? " I'd like to now that it's being dealt with as much as possible. Despite everything, Iceland is not illegal to own money abroad. The only thing illegal in it, and the senator knows it as well as I do, is when companies or individuals don't make money. We have discussed this before, myself and the senator, i.e. taxicabicide. As the senator has attributed, you may be able to support yourself or imagine ways in which a company can get past these provisions and take some support from the state fund. But it has to be an enterprise that has some activity in Iceland. Their work has to be combined by 75%, and they need to have met all the conditions set out there. It may be appropriate to remind you that both the government tax manager and the tax investigator have made a point. The Economic and Business Committee points out that there may be a theoretical possibility that an enterprise can take advantage of this, but both sides have pointed out that they do not see that a great likeness exists that will be possible because of the limitations of the conditions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u62	Mr. President. Now I'm surprised to hear it here. paritaprevir Left green talk like this. That's what I'm talking about. A senator saying that we can't condition that even some companies who have made use of tax cover or societies in some way, in a variety of combinations, we know that many people do, we know some companies who do - that it can't be met with conditions that we both know that experts have said can be done? Suggested by the Conspiracy, as much as ever. A senator decided not to agree, had precisely excluded this party. It is not enough, however, to provide some reports on CCs. Then you have to be an Icelander who owns societies. The others at home, e.g. in London, we have an African community in Tortolas, but we still have a business here that doesn't have to give up any CC reports. I know it's technical, Mr. President, but it's somehow this kind of complicated thing that men put up and then lay down top-said that these conditions can't be placed, unfortunately, because it's not illegal to have a tax bill. But is it illegal to make money? No, it is not illegal to pay interest. Yet, we can have the means to make money. Is it illegal to have not lost a lot of money in the present problem? No, but we still have conditions about it. We can set the conditions we like, and we should set the conditions that are righteous when we are taking tens of billions of dollars from the state's funds, in this case, in order to protect the owners of our companies and their stocks.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. To begin with, a senator would say that it wasn't my word that it was not illegal to have money on taxes. The Senator knows there's something you can't do. What I said, however, was that possession of money abroad is not illegal as long as you give it up and pay for it. It is also true that the senator is able to impose all the resources that we want to work on. We can establish a set of criteria and conditions for all the resources that we put forth. But let us not forget that we must not crowd them so much that they will cause more loss than would need, or hundreds, or thousands, of them. Therefore, it is very important for me to pay attention to the means by which these limitations are placed. I'm perfectly willing to discuss it with a dog. A senator at night. The financial and business committee, and they're going over one more trip, whether or not to make more money because of paying taxes or trying to get into the resources they don't need, that's probably. But let's not forget that there are a lot of companies in Iceland with perfectly legal jobs that own companies and funds and in companies in so-called low taxes. We're talking Holland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u64	The Netherlands is not a low tax area.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u65	The Netherlands is defined as a low tax region in a wide range of criteria. [[...no. International standards.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u66	You have to read more.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u67	Ireland is sometimes defined as a low taxes area; Luxembourg is sometimes defined as a low taxes area. [[Not under Icelandic law.]] It can be extended all the way, but let's discuss it rather with us that those who have these provisions may be able to fit them. But find ways together to deal with the senator's anxieties. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u68	After asking why. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's about how to handle any contact issues, e.g. For financial reasons, but they have found different committees, President has received the information, the inexplicable list, that two can be made: committees may meet together, and on the other hand, one committee may also wish for another's opinion. The list isn't exhaustive, but the President's got a point. For more information on this interesting subject, a senator to the chairman of the committee field.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u69	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill for temporary permission to reorganize enterprises. The bill is part of more government initiatives to assist companies. The bill is suggested to set up measures that include a new way for businesses to reorganize their budget. When the bill is submitted to assist the companies who have had financial problems because of the circumstances created by the Covid-19 disease, the resources are temporary because they are presented in the light of the unique circumstances. The options should be applied prior to January 1, 2021. The new option means that the company in the bill called a debt may at the discretion of the judge and, more closely, get a payment plate to start with for three months, which may be extended for up to 12 months. At that time, the debtor may work to reorganize his financial situation with the support of an assistant and obtain free contracts with his demands or contracts. In the treatment of a judge's request for an extension of the procedure, requirements are given as an option to express their views. The bill is largely based on the current process of payment and plagion agreements. However, a significant variation was proposed for streamlining rules, which should include a new, simpler way to achieve fixed contracts. At the same time, a change is proposed in the section of the bankrupt trading law that deals with forced agreements, that a financial agreement can reach a certain extent, and is proposed to make that provision permanent. It is thought that the employment company that meets the requirements; to have the jurisdiction of the courts in this country, that since March 1, 2020, the company has paid more than one person minimum wage for a full-time job in December 2018; and in January and February 2020, monthly total revenues from March 1, 2020 have been added by more than 75% compared to the average of three months before, or that the monthly income for the last three months prior to its application are added by at least 75% compared to the same month in 2019, or the estimated increase in total activity over the next three months will be 75% lower compared to the same duration in the past year. At the same time, there is a requirement that debt and operating costs that fall to pay within the next two years are combined to exceed the total value of money or to demand on others. From the time of the district court's request for permission to reorganize, the company will get into payment. This is an important factor, and unlike what is generally true of payoffs, from the source to payoffs. This will also be a major compromise on the conditions for information to be made in the request for payment, based on the information that needs to be submitted to the request for a payment checkup. In the bill, the main focus is that a creditor's status is attributable to the circumstances that have developed as a result of the epidemic, but details of how a debtor intends to solve his problems are not readily required. Thus, when a creditor receives payment, he is allowed to make room for the benefits that are in the position with him. During a payment charge, it is not permitted to take a pair of loans for bankruptcy, make money on his property, or sell an extorted sale, or carry them out of his home. Thus, the bill provides important protection against all collected and forced arrangements during this time. During the payment phase, a debtor is forbidden to reserve his assets, establish commitments, and pay his debts without the approval of his assistant, and under certain legal authority. It should be noted, then, that this is a related debt according to 2 mg. Sixty-four. Passion laws are disabled. Thus, the debter applying for a payment card is not obliged, following the commitment of the company's managers to request a bankruptcy of the estate, as defined in an up - to - date article. During a payment charge, a debt allows room to review its position with an assistant. A credit card can end with the passing of its time, with a debt's function gone without proper action, but a debt may also have made free contracts with demanding workers. It may also lead to the conclusion that it is right to try to negotiate with the demanding workers. However, the bill suggests that a more simple operation than the standard is required to establish a contract. Such a contract may result in loss of interest, collection costs, and relative demands, or extended loans, including those guaranteed by mortgages. Is it new, since forced contracts do not require guarantees? It is only necessary that the overseer agree with the anxious agreement, and the district court confirmed it. There is no need to vote among the demands. A dress owes him a search of a standard emergency contract with no prior bankruptcy under the bounds of bankruptcy is permitted by the approval of his overseer. This is a simple process from the standard need contracts where the decision of the judges does not need to start contracts. In the bill, as mentioned earlier, a new development is that such a traditional contract of need can also take on a pledge of guarantees. Thus, a contract may recommend a change in the terms of a contract requirement, including extending a loan period or postponing payments for up to three years. At the beginning of the process, a debtor is authorized to seek help from an attorney or an accountant whom he owns. On the other hand, if a debtor is in need of contracts, whether it is the simpler contract or standard, he must return to the province and have a appointed officer who is to be a lawyer. There are agreements other than free agreements with demands, and there are rules on how to deal with them. So it is necessary to make a requirement for such an overseer that he has a legal knowledge of the process. If a lawyer initially has an assistant creditor, he can be appointed as an overseer. But if another person replaces the assistant, the first responsibility is for what has been done before a new overseer receives it. Then the bill suggests some changes in bankruptcy laws and more. As mentioned earlier, a commitment agreement, whether of a simpler type or tradition, is suggested to take on a claim that is guaranteed by a contract. Is it suggested that the change in bankruptcy laws be permanent, and it is suggested that a new article be placed in the law under such authority. Other changes in bankruptcy laws are adjustment to this new article. V.E.G. President. I have now considered key elements of the bill, all of which aim to try to lighten up with companies and to provide them with shelter as the situation becomes and what the future will be and what the company will look like. This is a very important resource, and I hope that it will be useful to start a company's restoration quickly and safely and to get back on track when the economy is relighted. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u70	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. This is a very important case, and the Central Party has been talking about it ever since this unprecedented situation, i.e. the virus epidemic, that would be looked at to expand the law on bankruptcy, and I have had this discussion at the highest level. Ministers and they just found out that the case was in place because, as the law is today, it is very difficult for companies to take advantage of financial resources that are a very good tool when firms are in trouble. It has largely prevented the financial restitution in which companies need to go. Whether the virus epidemic fell under the conditions for financial reorganization, as it happens in the bankruptcy laws, has been considered. So I'm gonna celebrate this bill and have to say that it's more detailed than I expected, and that's just a good thing. It appears at first glance that, as it were, the right requirement to help companies without the need for companies to go to pay stop, etc. It's probably called a payment dress and it'll look like 12 months, if you're right. But that's what they're doing. They're creating a new bill, and maybe I'd like to ask the highest. A minister would have concluded that this would be more efficient in this way or that it could have been taken the other way earlier in the process, i.e. Implicit these unprecedented circumstances, the viral epidemic, under the conditions of payoffs, to see if they have also been examined.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator is very much concerned with this inquiry. He was correct, of course, but considering not making permanent changes in the resources or laws because of the pandemic, he was able to see how this proved true, and he could use it for work that we need to go to for good, not living because of the particular position we are in. It was also considered whether the arrangement should be adjusted as it is today and if it was sufficient. It was considered too complicated and that it would be much better for an enterprise to bring up a new set of resources for that name, financial reorganization. It would give better shelter, the conditions could be far more limited and the definition far more extensive about who fell under these conditions. Any treatment for the matter could be corrected, administered earlier, etc. There I think we have a very good conclusion to answer the call to offer a shelter suitable for today's social situation. We're simplifying the whole process from A to O. It's very important that you can get to safety sooner when you come with a request to the district and that you get out in different ways, depending on the way you're going because of the uncertainty you've got. It's right next door. A senator says it's up to 12 months. You get the cover for the first three months, and then you can extend it so that the total amount of time could be 12 months. There will probably be a lot of conflicting challenges to companies, depending on the type of years in this area and the pace of the economy. I think it's a very acceptable time frame, but thank you. A senator for the record.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u72	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for good answers and for putting the matter into practice because it is very important. I'd like to commend the highest. Minister for bringing it here because the matter is detailed and at first seen to be well done. It will help many, and as the situation exists today, it is almost impossible for companies and individuals to specify practical measures to obtain an approved payment centre as required by the law. The requirements are very narrow and were not expected to be present and this uncertainty. I'd like to reiterate that we support the bill, and it's very important in this situation. I appreciate the Minister's presentation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u73	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for reviewing this bill that I haven't read, so I'll admit it before I raise my question. But we in the United States have talked many times about this situation that it is extremely important that companies are not running out of business, and that is true of homes too, that neither companies nor homes are being driven in this position. In this regard too, banks were allowed to compromise their requirements so that they could borrow and postpone payment. I wondered if it is beginning to show that the demands of the company are being developed, whether banks are not yet proclaiming the flexibility they were planning to do. How important it is. Minister for this bill to succeed? Is it time for many companies to make this issue more urgent?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. I know the bill's pretty tight, like what it is. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's children came in, so there's quite some reading in it. Regarding whether the banks are going contrary to what they have claimed to be a certain flexibility because of the situation, we have not seen it. In particular, with regard to the bill, we have worked hard so that our resources can be suitable for most companies in order to recover, which is very important for all the employees there have won. We'll see that there's a lot of companies going a bit to wait for that. It may not necessarily be time for the economy, but it is far more likely that they will recover and get back if they quickly get to a place of safety. I think it is very important that the council take the bill for a complete treatment but yet as rapidly as possible, because here we are offering a shelter that is both much simpler than what is available today and beneath it, there will be more companies, especially those who have had problems because of the situation. It also serves as a better option for SMEs and puts companies to safety sooner than the amount of resources in today's law. We see that the situation really gets more serious every week. When we spoke here for staying one and a half months, we may have had a little less time to learn how serious the situation would be for many companies and how long it would last. My food and the people I've consulted and consulted because of this bill is that it would mean a lot and even a lot. Some company could use this for the summer, and then three months would do a lot of good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u75	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Of course we are faced with a big problem, no need to list it here, and all sorts of companies are in great difficulty. Travel is a natural part of the work market and so many employees who have worked in such companies, and most of them are small, and we don't know when tourists are coming back. According to this bill, a judge should determine whether the company's payment system is rooted in the economic consequences of Covid-19 but is not expected to investigate whether a debt is likely to succeed in managing financial restructuring. It is extremely important not to run a business in this condition because there is so much uncertainty. I'll agree with the highest. A minister when she says that when markets begin to open again, there will be a sharp turn of resistance to the executives. But could this not also lead to a lasting solution? I wondered because there are no limits to the bill, although I am truly going to learn more about it, no one who considers whether the company really has a chance to have a job, even if markets have opened up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. These are just questions we need to ask ourselves. In this case, it is not an option that the local Court especially needs to assess whether an enterprise is likely to have the opportunity to get through financial reorganization, it is because we want the companies to be able to get to safety quickly in order to speed up financial reorganization. The company is to consult with their assistant in the first three months and then be determined after the time it is likely to be effective and then can be better assessed. The company will have to make good use of the three months, and if it wants an extension after three months, the creditor may make his comments at that point. I hope that this will be the conclusion that this will further speed up financial reorganization and speed up the development of a business. Some companies will be able to use these three months quite well to figure out their position and look at their prospects. Other companies can also use the months well, but they need some extension to see how this is going to go on and need some further shelter than for the three months. However, by the evaluation it is not only an attempt to speed up the restructuring process but also the simplifying process so that companies get closer to safety and the evaluation by local law is so only to see if the consequences of Covid have affected the company's situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u77	President. This is an enormously important bill we're discussing. I'm very happy that it's done because it will be used by a number of companies to keep the work going, including employees, employees at work. I'm certainly going to extend this discussion, but very little. I'd like to draw out one point in this matter that I think is extremely important to consider that it is not well prepared and that it is difficult. A top-of-the-art Board of Education to look at it. I hope that's a good idea, but I wanted to draw it out. I'm referring to the companies that rent their business and who may have trouble paying rent, i.e. when the claimant is not a loan agency and does not have to pay on loans, but in the case of rent for a job house. That is true whether in individual contracts or in contracts with real estate companies who may have large housing that they may rent out. You need to remember that this goes up the whole chain, that companies who lose their income get an understanding from the landlord that rent cannot be paid. It must be ensured that it is the same payment process as that, that the property and business of an enterprise cannot be handled for rent pay due to a loss of income created by Covid-19 have been created. As I say, I embrace this bill. It may well be that the payment plan will benefit the group I also mentioned. I got it. I got it. A global and educational committee to examine it so that these resources are available to those renting, for we don't want to have more compression and management with those who have to rent their homes. We want to keep this variety of business going.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u78	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalise the law of bankruptcy. The objective of the bill is to resist social security and social abuse. Since November 2017, the bill is based on the government Treaty, which includes a discussion of the government's policy on labour markets and is specifically designated for social security. Similarly, the bill is part of the government's support of the biographies contracts of the employment market from 2019 C.E. In this regard it is appropriate to recall that at the spring council of 2019, adjustments were made to 262 st. a general penalties so that, in a criminal case, a person who is guilty of violating the law may be forbidden to establish a social union with limited responsibility, sit in a government, work as a manager, or otherwise establish a management or take a greater part of the voting rights in such a group for up to three years. When preparing that law, it became apparent that the change did not fully result in the objective of protecting the demandsors and the whole society from the risk of loss that would likely be due to misuse of its components, which would not necessarily result in all cases of criminal rights. Most of the most serious events, most of them likely to cause damage to society, financial failure, and later the failure of partners, are cut off. This bill, therefore, suggests that those who do not qualify for the management of a business partner because of a harmful or undefeated business venture in a job ban can be decided and that changes are necessary in order to satisfy the changes made in general penalties during the past year. The bill was employed in cooperation with the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Employment and Development Ministry, the Allied Union of Iceland and the Organization for Employment. At that time, the bill was a comment on government consultations. One report came about the bill, the joint review of the National Association of Iceland and the Business Association, which welcomes the subject of the bill and describes that it contains an important legal basis. In the case of a job ban, it is further suggested that a judge be permitted to demand a business manager and, in particular, to determine someone who is not considered fit for the management of a partner, a private partner, and, in certain cases, a partnership in a workforce that is a principle for three years. In such a ban, it is further stated that a qualified associate is forbidden to manage a restricted organisation, i.e. A partner where no member of the community is personally responsible for the overall commitment of the company, and with a propulsion or other authority of such a society. It should be noted that a professional ban may be imposed on the individual who has been appointed to govern the Society, which, under those circumstances, may fall under so - called Obscurials. This refers to a person who actually works as a director or director of a social network in the sense of law without being formally registered as such. It is fundamentally essential that the purpose of a job ban is not punishment but that it protects the public and society as a whole from misuse of the components. In other words, the terms of the bill are guided by the underlying public interest. Nevertheless, it is clear that job bans are burdensome, and it is important that only a decision and a decision be made be made is based on an overall assessment of all situations. In this particular situation, it is important to insist that only professional drivers are expected to be used in case of more severe cases and not to be confined to primary operations or to reduce the impulse of individuals to participate in the business. Is it proper to remember that most organizations with limited responsibilities are driven into good faith and taken in bankruptcy for reasons beyond control? In such cases, the determination of governments and others who have directed a partner to a certain company is not limited to the legal commitments that can be held in terms of property or their value in paying dues for bankruptcy laws. When a social security number occurs, it is different. On the one hand, there may be a resolve from the beginning to compromise with or against laws. Or there may be little or no possessions in a group from the beginning, and the purpose is primarily to misuse its partner form. This is the most serious type of social security. However, this may be the case with partial and partial loss of property and the use of money as part of a company on subs or free from charge, such as the Icelandic legal proceedings. The newly formed society is often employed in the same name as the older organization, as if there were no changes. Thus, the business continues in a new society with the same or similar names, but the early society's debt remains in the early society, which is later taken up in bankruptcy, and the demands lie down. These are the latter occurrences that need to ensure the public interest and aim the rules of the bill on this. The requirement for determining an individual on a job ban is that the individual does not qualify for the management of a partner due to a harmful or undefeated business practices in social management. In terms of ecstatic conditions, for example, there are high rates of purchases without the possibility of payment, persistent violations of accounting, or transfer of property from the bankrupt partner on conditional or without charge. At the same time, it is appropriate to consider the role that the individual played in social management, but the greater the responsibility the individual had in managing a social situation, the greater the reason he or she may have to be determined to undergo a professional crisis. It would be proper to consider whether the individual has taken action to prevent harm, such as negotiating inadequacy or taking other measures in order to get his partner's business on track. This may constitute a violation of professional bans. In other words, the assessment of whether a job ban will be submitted, as stated earlier, will be based on an overall assessment of all situations and will result in loss of objective, and as was earlier, only for more severe cases. V.E.G. President. Here I have turned to the most important subject of the bill, and its other principles address the court's most judicial case, which leads to the success and speed of the bill. So I suggest that the bill will be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u79	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for this bill. I think a lot of people have been waiting for that. I hope there's a good publicity on the committee, and if there's any bait in it that needs fixing, they'll be fixed. This is a very important case. We know that social security is a damage to the Icelandic economy. I'd like to be especially happy to know that the bill discussed consultations and that they have been contacted even. Iceland's Common Association and the Organization for Employment. Of course, it is very important to consult stakeholders in this regard. The so - called social security is in fact a misuse of the rule of limited responsibility of shareholders. It is likely that there will be tens of billions of dollars in Icelandic society. This year due to behavior considered a social security index. Most people agree that the problem is there and that it is not successful. That's why I especially welcome this bill. In recent years, there have been no major changes in the law to correct the social security number, which is somewhat special because this lesion has been referred to many times. A social network can be described as dying, but its business survives and continues to survive a new social security number. In that case, it is the condition of the social security code, as it were, that it should be the aim of the social network. Avoiding someone or all the legal duties of the company. Therefore, the common people and others who are not looking at the social security numbers when they do business with them often do not notice this change, even the public, e.g. The rurals. It's actually doing business with a company that may have changed the social security number, etc. and didn't deliver for pay, and so on. The new Society rises from the ashes of the old society and continues to operate in the older society, and this form of conduct is reprehensible and illegal. The identification of the social security number can be varied, and essentially all its legal commitments can be classified into two groups according to whether the Society's original purpose should be met or not. The manifestation of the social security number that is likely to first come to the mind of many is when a society that sees it is unable to fulfill its commitment to the demands is lost, but before it is started a new association of the former members, who move to their respective parts or even without paying any thing for it. The new partner is often employed under the same business name as the older one, thus maintaining its trade, and thus business can continue in the new society, but the former society's debt is cleansed. Of course, it is a highly competitive position for those who are honest in their business and who have been working for many years and then become involved in the competition at the time of tenders, etc., where the companies even find out that they have taken this illegal course. It can be defined as a deliberate and often systematic failure of associates, which take place in a deceitful or illegal way or purpose to avoid taxes and other legal obligations, including to the staff, and to continue the business of the profitable part of the business through a new society like myself. Social networking may also include continuing to work under the same name as the new society's managers are the same as the former members or close ones and the staff of the older society continue to work in the new society and/or bankruptcy as one member of the conniving community. The violation of treaties is against treatal or legal commitments that can result in exclusive or penalties. I don't know that the size of the social security network numbers has been compiled or that the social security rate is of total failures. It would be very interesting to know. A government taxpayer's staff determined that taxes would be more than 80 billion annual, while society's activities indicated that they should be, i.e. There may be a considerable amount of money involved. It is interesting in this context, since we refer to the European Union of Iceland in this bill, the UN report has been issued in October 2013 evaluating social damage caused by social security. This is very interesting, and I encourage senators to find out. The relationship then came up with suggestions on how to act against social security. It says, in fact, old figures, that from March 1, 2012 until January 2013, there was a demand for the union's swelling beds, with a total of 166 billion dollars completed. and only 5.2 billion dollars. Collected according to the requirements of 3.1%. It was an incredibly low percentage. We see that society is going to be there with enormous value. It can also be noted that in a study conducted by students at the University of Copenhagen in 2005, over 73% of companies committed in the study have been found to have been harmed by social security. Of these, more than one third of the executives have been harmed by the social security number more than six times. The survey included 600 companies. This conclusion gives strong indication that the scope of the social social security index is quite significant, and that is why this case is very important. I hope, as I said earlier, that there will be a good discussion on the committee and it will be carefully reviewed and heard by a client who arrives there if there is anything else that needs to be added to this. It's pretty clear that here in Iceland is the ideal situation for social security. On the basis of weak, low- or inadequate legal legislation, some susceptible persons have seen a game on the table by obtaining a list of demands of illegality, which is considered to be a social security item. Icelandic society is more likely to become each year out of tens of billions of dollars on the social security scale. Those affected by this condition are the requirements of the particular group that can be mainly company, government funds, union unions, pension funds, and the public wage in the country. But social networking can have a chain effect and can cause harm to others other than those with demands. Then those who engage in social social networking enjoy an unconvinced competitive advantage that I came into earlier, which is naturally incredibly unfair if they think about it and see the reality of how unfair it can be and have a bad effect, e.g. When it comes to an invitation and such. Then, in this case, the damage to the public will finally come. The public needs to do this in the form of taxes, smaller services, and higher prices. It's just a fact. It's coming even. ... in a master's project of law by Heiðar Guðmundsson, which is interesting to read in this context. The central Party proposed a change of budget for 2019 C.E. to some 120 million. K. in the fight against social security. We stressed putting money on the head of the state tax and to the head of the tax because it's a social lesion that needs to be removed. It's just that this good proposal made the government groups like many others that come from the opposition, probably because they didn't have the idea themselves. But in this, like so many other things, we are in the Middle East far ahead of the government class when it comes to important laws for the benefit of land and nation. Of course, we support this matter and give the committee good wishes in its processing. But it would have been a pleasure if the government groups had accepted our proposal at the time. I hope there is some change of mind in this regard in government categories, and we may now see, in the future, that humans only listen to the government opposition and the suggestions it has to offer. But it's a case that's extremely urgent, as I've traced, and it's a massive lesion in our community. I think it's almost a custom phenomenon, at least. The situation in Iceland seems to be quite ideal for practicing this behavior. This bill will deal with it, and this act, this illegal behaviour, will be history. Mr. President. As I said earlier, a careful review of the case on the committee needs to be made and added if so. It is also important that this is relatively simple and that all the fences that will be installed. Those who practice behavior like social security are trying to find various loopholes to avoid rules and to continue their conduct. It must be ensured in the Committee's work that there are no gaps in the bill that can make it possible for you to continue changing the social security number, causing damage to employees and companies and others who are competing with the company, etc. It seems that there is a great deal of competitiveness in the fact that all debts can simply be expelled and only a new social security number and continued to function as they were while the others, who have been honest in their functions, have to meet all the fees and taxes, etc. Everyone sees how unfair that is. It must be said at the moment, Mr. President, that it is sad that we should not have handled this matter before. There have been many reports of this, many of which have been shown, and there have been cases of government agencies recruiting companies who have become informed about social security. It is as precarious as it can be. We hope that this case will be the end of social security, and I wish the committee all the best in this. I want to thank you very much. Minister of Justice for performing this bill. Hopefully, it will be a story of this landmarkness that has existed in Icelandic society for far too long.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u80	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise a change in unemployment insurance law and a remuneration law. The bill is presented as a temporary labour market trial due to the spread of a crown virus that causes the Covid-19 disease and the pre-pyretic measures for the spread of the disease have become more extensive and may persist for a longer time than expected when legislation on the so-called partial reforms were adopted here on March 20, March. In view of this, the bill suggests that the length of the measures taken will be extended from June 1 to August 31, 2020, but the results will remain unsolved from May 31. The objective of the bill is, as in the past, to help employers maintain the recruitment relationship with their employees as they can most effectively, although it may be necessary to reduce their employment ratio to some extent because of recovery. It is suggested that, based on the average total wage in the last three months, we calculate the amount of unemployment to be paid for the loss of a job in part. However, the change in options from what is currently permitted to be allowed to be requested according to the average total wage each month in 2019. Furthermore, it is suggested that the calculation of the sum of unemployment benefits should be considered in other periods if a paid person was in the maternity and parental study during the reference period. In addition, a remuneration agent is suggested to maintain a minimum of 50% employment ratio from July 1, 2020 instead of today's 25%. It is then assumed that there will be an extension to pay income - related unemployment benefits to independent individuals who have used their right to unemployment since the creation of the stockway laws in March. due to a significant reduction in business. Is this suggested as it is important for these individuals to keep income-related improvements in the period required for the management of the resource, which is generally paid on unemployment insurance for three months. A respectable president. In the past few days, many media talk has probably not been overlooked about a company that has told its employees in part that has since taken advantage of its right to unemployment. Certainly, in March the law was intended to prevent an apocalyptic loss of job markets, but it was intended to enable companies who were badly affected at the beginning of the Korean epidemic to maintain recruitment relations with their people in spite of temporary difficulties. In my opinion, it succeeded in our mission, talking numbers about the use of resources there. However, I have to say, it was surprising to see that companies that do well financially, and even very well, chose to give up their employees in part and then to normally new employees their right to unemployment. In view of this, it is inevitable that certain conditions will be set so as not to be brought up financially to maintain employment relations with their people despite temporary failures in business. The bill therefore suggests that there will be an increased requirement for working with employers who are applying for partial improvements and who have a reduced employment rate. For example, in the bill it is suggested that the employer be advised to confirm that the work has been added to about 25%, that the relevant person does not owe public fees and pay dues, to carry unlimited tax restrictions in this country, and to have received a report on the possession of partners in the tax sector if appropriate, that he does not have between June 1, 2020 and 31st March 2020, he does not intend to pay out money, to reduce the stocks of the shareholders, noncontributts, buy his own shares, other fees to be paid on the basis of their property, to cut down the loans, to the creditors, to the owners, to the owners, or to other sources not to which he or to stakes who own a month's. K. While these are very strict conditions that may have less rights for employees, the employer does not meet the conditions mentioned above, I believe that this will not be avoided as the examples are true, unfortunately. The bill also anticipates an increased workforce to provide information on employers' activities and that the Agency will be allowed to reimburse an employer on the benefits his staff have been paid on the basis of June 1 through August 31, 2020, with additional 15% of the stress being added, in terms of the work of the employer, has not been met. It is then suggested that the Agency be allowed to publish an official list of employers of employees who are paid in response to a reduced labour rate. A respectable president. As noted above, labour market hardships due to the spread of the crown virus, which causes the Covid-19 disease and the preventative measures for the spread of the disease have become more extensive and last longer than expected when a law on the so-called partial reforms was adopted at the General Assembly of March 20. Because of the general well - being of the situation, I feel that it is important to extend the enforcing process to August 31 of this year and suggest it with the bill on this topic. In view of the fact that the length of the measures taken for the next month is totally unchanged, I also stress that the bill will be agreed at the General Assembly as soon as possible. Finally, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u81	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the tour, and I'm going to put my questions to work for a short time. First, I'd like to ask about the condition that companies don't pay their owners or top managers a monthly wage worth more than 3 million per person. Is this just pay or salary and benets? What about a bonus, what about a day's money, and what kind of surveillance is all of this? Then I'd like to ask the highest. A minister for a follow-up as a labour agency, after which. It may have been necessary for a business to put people in part - time jobs for a while, but then the company will see in some time that it is no longer needed. If the company's next three years of success allows it to pay on loans or other options, the highest. For example, a minister may not be overly concerned about requiring a company about 15% of the pressures on reimbursement when this is the case? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u82	A respectable president. Regarding the law that those who make use of the way do not pay more than 3 million dollars. the amount is about More than four times the average monthly wage in the country. The Common Union presented new suggestions and wanted to cover three times the average month's pay. In it, the idea is that it's all underneath. The idea is, not that a person can pay that monthly wages with any bonus or such but that all is included. I would have thought perfectly normal that such a law was made because when a company is taking advantage of government resources, it is totally normal for the government to say, " This is not normal. ' The company has become a semiofficial company while doing this, needs to be used by the public tax in order to cover a business gap. [[The president calls.]] That was the thought behind it. I'd answer the second inquiry later. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u83	President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answer, and he looks forward to hearing a later answer because it has to do with the exact period of the woodcutture, as it were. There are penalties when 15% of the pressure comes on reimbursement. It's a long time, three years, from June 1, 2020 to May 31, 2020, that you wonder whether a company will not go this way and try something else while they are bridgeing a gap for a short time. We can picture for ourselves two or three more weeks during the situation, etc. I'd like to ask at the end a little bit of a tax bill, because it says that those who have approved assets in companies in low taxes that have given up their companies are their companies. What about the companies who actually have assets in the tax industry, which is, yes, hide-and-seek? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u84	A respectable president. I believe that it is only generally true that when companies take advantage of government resources, it is normal for them to be reinvented for some time. The minister does not object to looking back at the welfare committee, but in general, I believe that when companies turn to the public in order for their bridges to run a business, they have certain views and are simply torn in general with the conditions and these are underneath. In terms of tax cover and low taxes, the regulations included in both primarys were agreed on. That is also true where it would be informative if the welfare committee went into it. The criteria weren't on the way to the beginning, and I think the ones there are loyal, as are other conditions set, better off the public position in the bill than in the current law. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u85	President. I wanted to ask about the government decision-making process, i.e. the lines of improvement that we now discuss and the state support because of the layoffs that were discussed earlier. It's like the highest. In his speech, a part - improvement route was originally designed to prevent an acoustic myth, and now it seems that we are in a place where we are looking at some kind of larceny, and as a result, the government is responding in a way to helping companies with resignations. I would like to ask if there was any consultation between the plans for these bills when they were completed, some kind of scenarios, and analysis of the impact these two resources have on each other, how they play together, and how many reports are scheduled. There must have been a review of how many reports the government plans to become, as well as whether there will be no more success evaluations to see what the interaction was like. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u86	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u87	A respectable president. I thank the senator for this. The bills were taken in agreement between the recruitment agents, there was an informal team between the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Social Affairs that worked these bills, but at the same time each Ministry won its bill, and then the combination of the talks was examined and discussed in the joint meetings. Of course, when we look at the part-change process, many people are leaving it now because society is starting again within the country, opening up stores, etc. Therefore, it is not to be expected that everyone on the part of the improvement will be on their way to your resignation. The partial improvement process is also being reduced because the national economy is being started. Then there are other factors, but it is very difficult to determine how the interaction will be because it will be the choice of the enterprises. [[The president calls.]] It is quite clear that if the financial secretary's resources become bigger, this will be less effective, but it is difficult to plan, as it was with the partial improvement in its time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u88	President. I understand them, as if they weren't directly diagnosed with some stage arts, and it was not determined in any way whether sources would increase or decrease from this interaction but perhaps to the highest degree. A minister can correct me if I have misunderstood his answer. I think it's pretty clear that government support due to information will increase or at least make it easier for companies to lay down their employees. I'd like to ask if a minister is open to examine the possibility of it, while we're in this short period of time with so many unemployment reformers, and so growing, except for conditions surrounding unemployment, i.e. to enhance the flexibility of people to do interoperative work or to take part - time jobs without having to drop out of the unemployment system - that is to lose their safety net. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is it not better for the economy right now not to tie people's hands in a way that unemployment reforms do about experimenting? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u89	A respectable president. Only with regard to the projections to end it. Of course, it is very difficult to discern how many people are going to be dismissed or how many not because outside issues control it, not exactly how these bills are. Remember, for example. Are we going to see some tourism get started here? What will travel services be like about the domestic market? Long - term effects on the interaction between these factors and the difficulty of doing accurate management analyses because we do not know exactly what the world's behavior will be like for the next few weeks and months. Regarding the possibility of excluding unemployment criteria, it is possible for companies to recruit employees and aim for some particular time to maintain unemployment. [[The president calls.]] We are looking at further conflict in that reality, how we can do so. [[The president calls.]] But first, we're going to finish this. [[The president calls.]] The rest is scheduled for next round.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u90	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of advance history, describing my satisfaction that the key things in the part-change process are being extended, which are absolutely necessary. We have seen, as well as the whole nation, how this business has been taking advantage of such measures that have not been needed. That's what I want to come in with the highest. Ministers in this relationship, because it is necessary, whether he knows how many companies have abused this process and about the amount of money involved in it. It's necessary to come out. Am I right, chief? Minister, that we get to see a list of companies who have taken advantage of this route? It's important to extend it, I agree with it. But it is also important to prevent all abuses as possible because the government groups did not listen to them at the outset. It was warned, including in the Committee's work, showing that this needs to be monitored very carefully and that certain conditions should be set.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u91	A respectable president. First, whether we have numbers over those who have been abusing the route: No, of course some companies have been paying back in recent days. This is happening fast, these are laws that were accepted here on March 20th, so they are not now old. What will follow is that the employment agency will send out a letter to an enterprise, it is preparing it now, calling for the management information and the use of the sources it has. It is being sharpened in this bill, both their sources and the conditions in which the Agency works, making them more targeted and more counting. For a list of companies: Yes, I've been quite clear in my conversations with the head of the work agency, but there is, of course, a employment agency that holds this list and I know that she's working on some kind of display on it, she's been calling it out of her computer systems. As I understand it, it's not that you can just press the print and print out the list, but you're making the list, i.e. Getting it made from the computer systems that are being used.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u92	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister's answer is excellent. We may need to take a little action. I had a word with the highest. Secretary of finance earlier today, when he recommended for the bill that the state participate in the reporting of companies and post notices. It is this interaction, as mentioned earlier, whether there are pre-supposed analyses -- now companies who would like to take advantage of this route to avoid resignations - how many companies think they are better off with a partial improvement route, and even until the year - time point, rather than put money on paying off a notice that actually sounds like they're suggesting that there's something else, whether there's some kind of diagnostic work on this and a comparison. [[The president calls.]] This is very important because it is relevant in this discussion and in the work of the Committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u93	A president still reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u94	A respectable president. As I told you earlier, it is difficult to work a precise analysis of what things are like because you don't know how the companies react. We now see the first weeks of May, the first two weeks, that people are starting to come back into a part-way workforce. We'll see it going on. We can see that today there was a pool opening and a gym station is likely to open. Many of these people are on the sideline. However, we do not have an accurate overview of how many are going to take the part - improvement route to enlightenment or a part - time recovery process, or take advantage of it. What we're doing, however, is creating a choice. I believe, however, that a company that doesn't need more time than September 1, makes more sense that they will be instructed. [[The president calls.]] In Scandinavia, for example, it is the product of telecommunation, which is the same as it is done in Scandinavia. Never passed more than six months. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then you're just out of work. It's the perfect reality, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u95	The President would like to remind you that one minute is 60 seconds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u96	Mr. President. In the ball of old times, coach gave some good advice. One thing that was often called into the field when he felt the need to talk was to build up the gaps in the defense. This came to mind after I had spent the morning at a meeting of the welfare committee, which covered the Department's partial reforms. Then I come here to the Senate Hall and listen to the secretary of finance review the other in-laws and like the highest level. Department of Social Affairs has also covered matters significantly. Somehow I felt it listening to the highest of things. The minister of finance is going over his business here today -- graded to the head, it may be a lot of talk, but there's a little appeal to the same companies, to the same people in some way, and it's undeniably confusing. In each case, cost assessment will take the main focus on how many people take advantage of the available alternative. We're then talking about two things that are pretty complicated and that need to work really hard, but we're applying what I understand whether into their committees. I think I'm right about that the first case was referred to an economic and switch committee, and this case goes into a welfare committee, so I hope these two committees somehow work this thing together. We're not talking about the case for the first time, and, first of all, it's about a certain extension and then, of conditions, both and, because 25% of the time A, B, C, C, or D is actually doing things, unfortunately, under the circumstances we now live, that a lot of companies can take advantage of this. It's just that way. I'm not gonna say they can all do it, but a lot of people can find a time of these choices, since they've had a 25% drop in income. It has been found that this measures are better for employees than for the general system. Remuneration is temporary and higher. It's better for employees, and we always talk about their interests. That's what's being done, right and easy to keep, so it's a good thing that as many as possible get into this process of getting into it by the employees. Then we come to the other. Sadly, when an enterprise has met this requirement, which is relatively, at present, easy to meet, there are very difficult conditions of follow-up. That is so, as has been attributed here, both in the excellent expansive debate of the minister and in the previous answers, the requirement for roofing the employer's salary and other firms, not paying money, and not preimbursed on the disintegrated loans, not bought in their own stocks, and so on. It's all true and good because the last thing we want to do is to get ready for a business to abuse these resources. We also need to remember that abuse is a big word, and the companies who ran out of business in their previous resources did so because the law offered it. For that, the terms are now being hung. As is often the case when someone closes some crack that accidentally or indiscriminately was left open, a little steep, and I think it's a little steep to go all the way to 2023, e.g. with remuneration, because just as a business doesn't envision this blow when it comes, it gets into an unexpected and very sudden problem, then, without people seeing it coming, we're working fast and well out of it, and there's nothing unusual about that within three years of now paying interest. That's why I'd feel better, if we wanted a company to take advantage of this, that they could come and return without paying this 15% stress, but the words say they were going to cheat. I don't think the majority of Icelandic companies will intend to do that, nor will those who take advantage of this resources, nor those who take advantage of it, and then make a profit within three or four years. So I wish and will ask for a welfare committee to see if this 15 percent stress will be used only when checking will prove true. However, this is actually the case, and people have talked about finding that with these rigid conditions, it is not likely that some company will not take advantage of it because they will either see it or hope to do better soon and want to take advantage of any other options, including. what was introduced earlier today. At the same time, the payman is worse off, so the matter is not quite simple, and it does not simplify it either. These speculations arise, I see no reason to recite what has already been said about some options and such. It may just be that we take care of our interests in this matter and keep it in mind. It might be considered now that we should rush into the matter so as to be very comfortable with the way the matter comes to an end on the final dash and that the names on these two subjects, i.e. The unemployment improvements, and then this part - time improvement, work together so that we simplify the matter to those we are helping but do not interfere with it. It is in my opinion the misunderstanding that can make it possible for some who shouldn't take advantage of the means here to offer, much rather than a firm offense on the part of Icelandic companies. I have no reason to believe that I do. And it's our job here that we're making so much money that we're taking care of the employee's interests, that we're assisting the companies as we can and caring for the interests of state funds, taxpayers, all at the same time. You can do it. But then we have to do it together, and we have to get the whole picture straight.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u97	Mr. President. Now we have an extension of an extension of an extension of some of the most exciting projects. The welfare committee will be able to work for the next two weeks. It is a type of pickup, a process that has gone on since the first bill was adopted in March. It was the first Covid case that came here for the council and worked in a hurry both in the ministry and in the council, so that somehow the bait that survived would need to be dealt with. There's a lot of good in this bill, some exactly necessary, something pretty vague. The labour agency's claim to those who deliberately attend our common fund without requiring any requirement is absolutely necessary and would have been better if the management had approved such measures by last week, since it would have become an effective source. But let Björn not weep; I will not stand here, I will cry for it, but I will pay the way of this claim. On the other hand, there is an abundance of resources placed in this bill. If, from one day up to three months, in the course of June 1 to August 31, the company's work may change over the next three years, and the benefit of the success - which we shall now hope to happen, let's hope that everything here will be brought here on a blowing cruise in the latter part of this year, at least a long distance before 31 May 2023 - then a small business can really be done, I don't think the company will be punished by the government on the part of the government. It's a very burdensome law, and I think it's absolutely necessary for us to examine it, because it's a long period of time. I think it's very normal for a company to pay back. It is perfectly normal to be treated in some way as a loan. That's fine. If a company doesn't need this, if the economy does so much that it can save itself someday in the next three years, it's normal to make some demands of it. But it is not good to intend to put 15% of the pressure on an enterprise has taken advantage of necessary resources, because a large number of companies have suffered a major shock. Let us be absolutely clear that the company needs to demonstrate considerable contractions in order to be able to use the resources, allowing it to be an opportunity to grow and thrive, and make use of legal resources. There is nothing illegal about paying interest. There's nothing illegal about paying off things. There are so many things in full harmony with the law. Paying out a bonus is not illegal. If an enterprise has received considerable government support, it is perfectly normal that the same company does not pay its money at the same time or pay in full. But in this bill, I feel like we're taking the black sheep and putting them on all the companies that are very wise and well fired. We are going to create some kind of discouraging effect, a discouraging law. I don't think that's our purpose or role here. Companies need to meet requirements, that the company has joined at least 25%, but it compares one of the following periods: comparison to the same period of 2019; the average increase in business between March 1 and today, between the last summer's blues, about 25%. from June 1, 2019 to August 31, 2018; 25% reduction from December 1, 2019 to the end of February; or the average monthly income from March 1, 2019 to February 29, 2020. It is really impossible not to find any days during this period in which there is no recession, if you are in any of the companies and businesses that are affected by the epidemic today. How positive it is that the bill considers those in the maternity room! We've got a bunch of e - mails and indications that it's very unfair to make money in delivery vacations, which are common today. In fact, people stretch their birthworm for a long period of time and receive even less monthly wages. However, after this, the amount of money applied to the birthed oralfs fund can be determined, so it is very positive to be accepted. I am concerned about the understanding of the administrative point of what it means to have property in taxes. I don't think some of us might know any better, but I still think many of us in this room know better. It's actually worse for me because it's silly to say that a company can't own property in taxes if a company has unlimited tax obligations in this country. It's kind of silly to say that in order to be in a lot of business here on the land, to be here with people on payroll, and to be regarded as holding property in the tax industry, they need to have unlimited tax rights on the land, because they require him to be here, to have a foreign company. To have an account on the possession of the CFC society is no protection, but because those who want to hide their assets in the tax industry do not reveal their assets that they want to keep secret from the government of Iceland. That's in the very nature of it. CFC reports are submitted to the head of state taxation that the partner owns property in a low tax area and pays for that in this country. On the other hand, those who store their assets in taxes try to avoid paying their taxes on the land, so everyone must see that there is some misunderstanding in this regard. This is no defence. I think we must call on all the best of us, we at other times would like to prevent an enterprise from being supported by paying for it, which will avoid participating in all the lifesaving work we are in right now. If we want those companies who are not going to be involved with them to have our support, let's have it this way. Despite all of this, I am concerned about independent active individuals and students. When we considered the first thing we're only fixing right now, we were very concerned about taking independent active individuals and also putting them on the part-side, because they all agree that people get more rights from being partial reformed than if they enter the general system. That's an extra dish. Because it is temporary resources, there are higher amounts of money in the part-change process. It was particularly decided to do so because we viewed it as a very temporary option. We wanted independent individuals who may have income from various sources to take advantage of it. We can picture a technician, a soundman, who has 75% of a job in caring for concerts, conferences, meetings and the like, working 25% for the State Radio or any other company as a technicalist. This person has lost 75% of his/her share, but is holding 25%, so that all the terms of part-winning are met. However, it has been so that the employment agency has decided to provide all of its independent activities in the process of putting them into the general system. It was done only by someone, although the lawgiver would have wanted to put individual persons in exactly the same position as employees regarding the part-change process. I don't understand why it happened that way, because what happens is that students who are independently active fall out. The dates we wanted to watch out for falling out, i.e. We wanted to make sure that those under 18 years and over 70 years of age could take advantage of this temporary resort - I repeat: this temporary resort - but it also falls out if they were independent. An actor at the City Theater, who was hired for one show, can't go to this thing because he's over 70 years old. Of course, he can't go to unemployment, either. He cannot take advantage of the part - help route or the unemployment process. There are baits I think we have to fix. Finally, I'd like to make another claim that we have to grab students. In March many students who support themselves with secular work have been unemployed. Students are people of all kinds, both family members, and not members of the family. Many who are entitled to student loans, cannot apply for middle - term student loans, are not able to collect in their parents'deep pockets, and have no right to look to fellow members in favor of the small arrangements they can find. The benefits that come from rural society do not cover the business of a household and a family, just not at all. When we make a decision at the General Assembly to exclude the group of people who lost their jobs in March or who completed their studies at the beginning of May, we are making a decision to rule out a group from being able to support their family. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u98	Mr. President. I'd like to get involved in the discussion a little while ago when it's recommended for this fancy bill that goes on a long-term so-called part-new process that's done very well. It was certainly working very fast to get her to work in March, and it was legalized on March 20th. and has benefited the number of pay people in the country to have the possibility of maintaining employment relations with their company, which, of course, is of great importance. It makes it possible that when these problems develop into the society of the relevant companies, the person may be more likely to continue his job and not be dumped than if the person had been promptly quit and there would have been no assurance that he would get a job with his previous employer again or above his job. It is now a review of what is believed to have been better, in view of available experience, on the basis of this strategy. That's very good, too. You can't see all the things going on in this situation. I think it's a good thing that in the most recent round of the part-time improvement process, the decompressing process to a certain extent is about the proportion of payer to his employer and non-employment insurance fund, in 50% after 30th June, these two months until August 31, and as well as the condition of the provision to the companies who intend to earn it from their employees. The 10th will be in a paper with the bill what conditions it is. There has been a great deal of discussions now and before that companies are being joined in a business that has their money in the tax industry. The exactness of tax dress has not been adequately defined. Is it a low tax area or a tax area where taxes will not be given to the country where they run their companies and where they have legalties? It has been explained that it is not illegal for individuals or businesses to have money in a foreign financial institution if the person gives it up to his taxes in Iceland and pays what he deserves. Then there's nothing illegal about it. But the conditions set out by the government and the Labour Organization make me feel completely explained, i.e. to an enterprise that cannot demonstrate the CFC report, to deliver taxes to the State on Icelandic law, have no access to these measures. It's as simple as that. The companies with a black conscience who try to avoid paying taxes to the State have no chance of taking advantage of this strategy. The labour oce will call for data on ownership and the enterprises must have submitted a report on the ownership of the CFC society and taxation due to the ownership of the low tax areas over the past three years, as appropriate. I feel that it is as clear as it can be, and I ask that there is no evidence that funds from public funds are being offered to support companies and employees in this relationship, that it is just not available. So I think it's good that if there's something unclear, or if there's a leak in the connection between the Commission and the government and the local secretary and all of us, the will rest clearly with the government and with the government and with all of us, I think. This will be the case if the conditions need to be tightened or further explained. In addition, 15% of the stress has been reported when companies misuse this resources in some way. I remember also talking about stress in the bill that the head of the welfare committee had for the presentation of a welfare committee on its part during the days. A director would correct me if I was not also suggested that the pressures be put on reimbursement if my business misused it. This is what we're talking about, and I think it's very necessary and good. We're going to the taxpayers' fund, public money, and it's a personal thing that if any abuse becomes evident, the company will have to be responsible for having abused it and pay it back with stress. You've been asking yourself if three years is too long. There is always room for debate about where the finger is placed in that material. But companies are being wanted and helped to get through these trials, and it is not unusual for companies to have to look to them for money further, whether three years or two or four years. I can't believe that sorting things like the Conspiracy would be opposed to enforcing such things. I'd rather have thought it was the other way around. Sometimes, though, things turn upside down in the discussion, and you don't know what's up and what's going down. I think we have this case at exactly the right time. We knew that this need to be revised based on the way things developed, whether they were taking over their jobs, how early it happened, and how everything looked in the light of Covid-19 in Iceland. Given that we are going rather positively out of this condition, I believe the bill will lead us through the next three months. No one knows what we may need to do in a month or two. No one can answer that question. After two months, no doubt we can see that something in it might have done differently. But I feel that the main thing is to consult the information available at any given time in this situation and to try to do the best in relation to the facts and information available. That we can work this out together with companies and employees and publicists. We will face this situation with the right choices and forwards, and it is our goal to get the best out of this economic crisis and health crisis. I know there's no one who can't do that. A senator predicted that in the present situation, something better or different could have been done. But everyone is trying to do their best in this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u99	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. You see, we in the United States want the conditions we're putting in the laws to work. That is why we have been speaking extensively of putting in certain works. Enforcement of an unlimited tax obligation has nothing to say because that is the basis for an enterprise to export money from here that it has unlimited tax obligations here. When it has unlimited tax obligations in the world, it can't move out money, because it isn't here. This was shown in the case of a man. The senator that an enterprise that cannot report a CCC can't take advantage of this option. A company trying to hide their ownership in a tax industry does not produce a CC report because it is trying to hide possession. And how is this done? It's, for example. By exporting money funded in the country and hiding it on the islands of the country in the form of a government payment, in the form of cover-up, for example. in the road sector, in the form of all kinds of technical support or anything. That's how this is done, and it's gonna be senators who are dealing with these matters right now, and they're gonna have to figure out how it's practitiony. If you file a CC report, it's like turning in a tax returns in Iceland, so I'll try to simplify it to those who believe that a CC report is some kind of defence. [[The president calls.]] She's not, she's not. [[The president calls.]] So I don't quite understand why. A senator makes it look like a defense. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u100	The president is still ordering that the senators respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u101	Mr. President. I suppose a few lawyers and tax experts in this field have reviewed the case in the Ministry before it came here, that it's been done pretty well. But I understand it that way too, like cot. A senator will speak, that she will see that an enterprise which does not return this CC report still has access to this process. I'll take advantage of what. A senator: thinks so. A senator that the companies that do not submit this report can still get into this? That's the first question. Second, if business companies giving this report are possibly hiding money in the tax industry and not paying the taxes of money there; if that is the case, you are breaking the law of the land, and you have a tax president and your tax investigator full-time job in following these parties down, evading from this subsidion and, of course, trying to control such illegal activities. It goes on, away from this part-change path. It is not yet true that laws are being violated, whether in connection with the partial improvement pathway or otherwise. [[The president calls.]] That task will remain in our hands, such as the government tax manager and the tax investigator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u102	Mr. President. Yes, this answer is turning into a different answer, where the one who asks has a question. Maybe it's time to tell them what. A senator that doesn't bring in all the enterprises in CFC reports. [[Up front.]] No, no, no. A senator is merely mistaken. It is only those enterprises which have enterprises in the low taxes area that supply them and pay off the taxes here that provide these CC reports. The companies who are fired in Iceland in full control and who do not have such communities abroad, where taxes are low, do not provide such a report. Therefore, it cannot be said that all unregistered enterprises are not allowed to use the resources. Then we're in a very bad place because most of Iceland's societies don't have other societies in low taxes. It's just the budget that owns these companies in low taxes that provide this report so we can't rule out every community in Iceland. About 15% of the pressure, it was in the current case. The difference between this matter and this is that wood laws, which are in my opinion possibly far beyond normal, are now being used. Of course, we are hoping that companies will need these resources for a very short time. We are hoping that their interests will be greatly improved so that they can start a normal business within three years. Let us hope so, for we are optimistic; when we stand together, we are a powerful nation. I'm asking why. A senator believes that it is normal to use penalties for three years ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u103	Mr. President. I don't find it unusual in myself that companies who use this resources don't pay themselves interest for the next three years, and I would have thought the Conspiracy was similar, a company that gets this support from public funds. I just think it's perfectly normal that they don't pay money for the next three years. We all have to deal with this, and men can hold hands with it, and they can continue to run their business for it. But in terms of tax cover and the discussion, those companies who have money in so - called low taxes are not eligible unless they return these reports. Hv. A senator will refer them to a company that does not act as if they are in a low tax area, but he may misuse it, perhaps in some small way, to come along other ways that are not supposed to get into the tax industry. Our institutions are dealing with these companies every day, and, fortunately, they've been doing well, away from this bill. It's being tried and taken care of in our society. Everyone must agree that this must continue with full force. It wouldn't be good for the company if it became known that these measures had been misused and illegally carried out, having to go to court, and other matters. What would happen to that business, that's breaking the law? But plan what. A senator really so that we can get a tax examination on every company that's going into this facility? [[The president calls.]] It would be a very quiet resort if every company should go through that needle-eye in advance because there might be some money in the tax industry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u104	A president appreciates the urgency of the situation, but he still has to respect time limits.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u105	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator before the talk, and I listened attentively to it. Hv. A senator is one of the left - green members who argues that there are some special conditions for all these resources involved in the use of taxes. Not all members of Congress are left-green to claim that, for example. I was here in opposition to what. A senator representing the Left Green in the Economic and Business Committee, who did not insist that these conditions altogether held. In the end, they do not. The requirement to gather information that is already required to provide according to law is listed. There are annual reports, there are information on real owners, and there are CFC reports from the Icelanders whose taxes are owned by companies. When the Panama Documents all ran out here, and all that number, hundreds of people, it was found that had communities in low taxes, most of them had not returned CC reports. The only thing I see positive about this condition in the information we've discussed is that there are some warning bells for enterprises rooted in nationalities, have not submitted CFC reports, that there might be some check-ups on them. [[The president calls.]] But they don't rule out the Icelanders living in London, have a company in Tortolas, and run a business here because they're not supposed to report CCs under law. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u106	The President still reminds us of the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u107	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I wish that the Conspira could make a suggestion here at the Council on how to prevent firm offenders from taking their money into a tax shelter, that it could be handled by law. The companies with a firm violation of these materials are below the surface and are being tested by all means, by the government tax manager and the tax investigator to reach them. How should we get these companies and their activities on the surface? If we knew that, we would likely have put more of these companies around us than we've ever succeeded. Still, we have managed to reach even a few companies and get money back. Unfortunately, this is a poem about the activities of an enterprise, either here in Iceland or in other countries. It is an international problem that companies take their money into a so - called tax field and never intend to pay anything to the community. We know that, me and him. A senator, in the international community, is trying to cope with this reality and is preventing this by interacting with nations and people to do what they can. I get it so that the head of state tax and taxpayer planted an economic and business committee and said that this case would work out well, but, of course, there was a Teoric possibility. Are they not always in everything? I find it very strange if you're trying to blacken out this matter in the light of the fact that you're making payable access to companies on taxes to get into this business. It's just ridiculous.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u108	Mr. President. There's such a big misunderstanding going on next to him. A gentleman in the left green, and indeed others in its category, on the income tax laws, and this is so euphoric that it is rather embarrassing that the leaders of the administrations are making such nonsense. How sad! Someone may have succeeded in deceiving and throwing dust into the eyes of a dog. People of Congress, but none of the conditions presented in the bills we've discussed today, much less the ones we've paid for a weekend, are concerned with taxes. Only a 57th floor study is required. a in the income tax laws and the regulations the Minister has made in this article to examine the definition of this. What we wanted to do in the United States was to refer to Icelandic income tax laws and exclude them from the support of the state that fell under that definition. We'd have gotten these people. Someone may have escaped, but we would still have this in the law and after, if we had been able to examine and see if humans tried to break those laws. You're right about what you're doing. A senator that this is a global problem, and the European Union has clear guidelines on how they deal with the tax industry. Dans set up those criteria, and they also did another, four times the punishment for trying to use resources for Covid for a different purpose than they were thought, and they increased the tax investigators by 250. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We don't do shit here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u109	The president asks senators to control their worst emotions and also to respect yet another deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u110	Mr. President. This is remarkable when members of Parliament believe that they are content to call what comes from members of the councils left greens and misunderstandings and think themselves and their members in the United States somehow with the one truth in their own heart. Hardly anyone could have known about these matters except the United States. I trust that the United States will only offer their suggestions on these matters and they will be discussed, how to prevent 110% from going to any company that has its money in the tax industry, which does not pay taxes to the State, into this subsidies. I thought it would be nice to hear from you. A senator should be doing this. So I found it very strange when it came to the head of the welfare committee that it was becoming the most obvious thing that conditions are occupied and businesses are not allowed to pay off money for the next three years. I think this is a conflict. Either the resources are all too tight and they are tightening so that companies can't pay money, but the other way is they're talking about how much relief this is so that a company can have money on the tax industry and go into this process. I think the Conspira should decide which side she wants to be on this matter, but not just where each time is suitable to minimize what is being done on the part of the government to face the difficult situation of employees and businesses. They are honest people who work at the General Assembly, away from their ranks.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u111	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in unemployment insurance law designed to contribute to the more efficient implementation of the law. Since the regulations on unemployment insurance in 2006, there have been several changes in domestic labour markets, including In view of this, the law will be reviewed in its entirety in agreement with the labour market organisation. The changes recommended in this bill are, however, that it is not considered appropriate to wait until such a complete review is completed. This is especially true in view of the circumstances in today's labour market because of a pandemic crown virus when recorded unemployment is at the maximum and the total number of people accepting the employment services of the employment agency due to unemployment insurance has never been higher. The bill suggests changes that seem urgent and essential with the aim of implementing a law on unemployment insurance will be more efficient than at present. It is suggested that there be a general need for unemployment insurance that you have a registered legal home in Iceland, as well as that your former employers' words will be reduced when remuneration is applied by employees. It is also suggested that police be added to the government to provide information that the Agency considers necessary in the implementation of the law. The bill also suggests that the changes in the terms of the law following the execution of a judicial hearing are important, but it is important to determine what forms of repair should be made when a committed person has been registered without employment at the Work Office for four weeks or more and will be advised to work in a domestic labour market at the same time that he or she is paid for unemployment without reporting to the labour agency or to quit the job market. Furthermore, it is suggested that the law that the Labour Office is permitted to pay the worker a bankruptcy of unemployment from the date the union is declared bankrupt, but according to the current law on the day of the notice or the next month after the resignation. A respectable president. Government aims for pandemic crown virus have included: • avoiding economic damage and promoting more economic resistance than at the same time, protecting the rights of paymen. Unfortunately, it is clear that there are a number of companies who will no doubt lead many of them to reorganize their budget. I really hope that such reorganization will follow as the most layoffs on the payroll and that most companies will be spared in bankruptcy. Sadly, though, the effects of this pandemic on the labour market will likely not be able to escape the loss and delay of some companies. The situation in this situation is very sensitive to the situation, so it is vital that the employment agency be allowed to pay unemployment right away when a society is decided to fail. As has been noted repeatedly, the situation that has come up without precedent and has to be handled accordingly. I believe it is quite clear that the coming loss will continue to test the overall unemployment insurance system as well as the staff and the infrastructure of the employment agency. Is this bill a part of responding to that situation by simplifying and clarifying the rules of rules for both the Agency as well as for candidates on unemployment insurance, thereby increasing the effectiveness of the law. The bill was employed in the cooperation of every partner in the labour market, both professional and hired people. I emphasize that the bill will be approved at the General Assembly as soon as possible and suggest that it be referred to. The welfare committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u112	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the review of this brief bill. ▪ The question here, at times for improvement, and at times it doesn't work. In this case, I hope that treatment and unemployment benefits will be more efficient. I came up here to ask the highest question. Minister only to the Information of the Employment Agency, i.e. that the Agency can collect information from the National Insurance Institute, Iceland's Medical Insurance, rural institutions, loan funds, and others, as well as the police. Police will also be obliged to provide the information the Agency considers necessary in the implementation of the law. This is a broad source of information, so I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if this bill has been identified in terms of personal protection and whether there was a Persian protection at the time of this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u113	A respectable president. All I know is that this bill is worked in a good agreement between the labour market parties, both sides of the board there. I'm going to admit here that I don't have it on rhythms whether Peritoneal Protection has arrived at the progress of the bill, but I'll get that information and get it to the head of the welfare committee and the Committee, which I'm sure is absolutely certain.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u114	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Yes, it has been very difficult to relate to laws now driving through the council. Hv. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen has been tireless to point to the limitations at the highest level. A government to forget about this great code of law we agreed on at the World Council last year, i.e. The protection laws. All bills should be injected with these glasses, especially with sensitive personal information. I'm sorry, but the government's personal guardianship at least appears to be the case. the number of bills that come from the highest number could not be reached. advisers on the topic field. The welfare committee. It seems to be a transboundary goal for primes coming from the highest level. Department of Social Affairs and Child Affairs, on the one hand and on the highest. Healthcare Minister, however, i.e. They have not been examined for protection purposes. In this kind of information gathering, as it is being given to the Labour Department, I think we must make the minimum requirement that there be any questions as to whether this is normal. Maybe I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Does he feel that it is considered necessary for the applicant to grant informed consent for such information?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u115	A respectable president. As I said before, and in my history speech, we're about to start a job and revise the overall law on unemployment insurance. The elements on the bill are points that both sides of the workforce considered very important to get started now as a result of the social situation. I'm just gonna have to say about this question. The head of the welfare committee that I could get that information and get them to the Committee, how much personal protection was given in the setting of the bill. I'm just going to admit that I don't have it here in a hurry, as I said before, and I think we'd just check it out afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u116	President. I agree with what. The head of the welfare committee in the inquiry to the highest level. Minister. I encourage ministers, because we've talked a lot about this on the Committee, to ensure that the effect on personal protection is assessed in the processing of all the cases within the Ministry that have something to do with personal protection. This is of utmost importance, those words are laws, and we must begin to enforce them. It's a little boring to be repeated to get the same comments on the welfare committee that you have to do this. I'm the highest. Minister to the promotion of personal protection in the future. I may want to take advantage of this opportunity to ask: I've just slipped over the bill, and when it comes to more efficient projects, you've always been a little worried because the focus is expected, I think, that it's being a good idea that people who go on unemployment aren't taking advantage of it in any way. I see it's being groved in various places. I had a little chat with a minister on the part-change route for future plans when it comes to unemployment improvements, whether we don't have to increase people's flexibility in these very delicate and difficult times. I ask them if the need to extend the unemployment period had anything to talk about, that people could be on unemployment for a longer time, extending their income - related periods, or somehow increasing their benefits to meet people and also to relax these conditions, to increase the flexibility of people, and the ability to experiment with a very modified labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u117	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the encouragement and the importance of personal protection, the minister takes it to himself. In terms of key elements of the bill, there are some factors that are being covered by the surveillance role of the employment agency. It is not only about companies in the part-authorized process but also about those who are better off and truly because they need it, not because they have work to do. It is only natural, then, that in these circumstances, such things are made more efficient too. But the big issue in the bill, and the thing that I think is most important, is this law to shift the individual's position above when it comes to subsidies. That is, in fact, the big thing, what I feel is the spine in this bill - it may be that me and the senator disagree with what it's about - that by doing this, we can start paying earlier when it comes to the failure process of a company, i.e. that the person is paid for unemployment sooner than the law they are in today's. About a cheeky whale. A senator, the prolongation of the recovery period and the relaxation of conditions, we're just looking at it. I don't think I've told you so long ago here at the council that that that's one of the things we're looking at, how we could imagine the next step in this regard. There is also the possibility of encouraging people to work in a job market and on conditions. However, it should never be that at the expense of those who really need the unemployment problem because it is thought of as many people without a job, who, unfortunately, are now too many.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u118	President. I appreciate the answers. I realize the purpose of unemployment, but I just wondered if we're not looking at such a changed situation that we need to think again and see if the current conditions for unemployment are a little bit of a commitment to people's hands and improve. We may be looking forward to a changed labour market, which could carry out much more work or other tasks, the Gigg economy and all of this, that we are not tying people too much to experiment with this changing labour market. But enough for now. I'm glad there's some work going on, that these things are being examined, and I'm just gonna ask if we can't join in that job in some way. Then I'm asking a minister if he's open to allow more voices to do that work and maybe just take us along. Nothing has to be dangerous, something positive could come out of it, there could be a lot of good ideas on our welfare committee, and no doubt it would just help. In view of the fact that the government has not been too open to allow us to ask the highest. Minister, I know he's been very diligent in informing us about the work being done at the Ministry, whether he's open to just having us in on this very important job.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-18-104.u119	A respectable president. Hv. A senator ponders the flexibility and conditions and the fact that a changed workforce is seen. Yes, we see a completely changed labour market, but I'd like to believe it's a short time. Naturally, the future work market is also changing. Just to grieve. The senator here has not yet been convinced that the value of civilian pay and that the thought behind the unemployment reform system is not that it will be some kind of civilian pay, at least not to me. However, it is important that the flexibility makes it possible for persons on unemployment to get work and that they are the motivations, both the flexibility of the individual and the support of the sector for the employer who sees to improve, to build up jobs, to support it for the individual and for the company. That's what we're looking at, not looking at flexibility that attracts this to some kind of long - term civilian pay. I think all voices are good, and only accept the encouragement the senator has. I have stressed that I am invited and prepared to meet with a welfare committee whenever she wishes or calls for information or so. I'm not necessarily sure, though, that would be the most effective way to put together a bill for all the classes to discuss it. However, I realize that the senator may not be calling directly to the matter but simply increasing consultation and conversation over the next steps. Yes, that's fine. We're starting to look at the improvement periods and then the workforce process. We've thought about finishing the bill, and then we'll go full into that job. [[The president calls.]] I'm a good associate with the welfare committee here, as far as I'm concerned.
