ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u1	President of the United States reports: I have decided, according to the proposal of the prime minister, that the Council should meet at the subsequent meeting on Monday, January 20, 2020. 15th All units, January 14th, 2020. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters for the Council to meet for an extended meeting. I offer the highest. President and w. All council members welcome new meetings.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u2	Hv. All council members. The General now assembles for a subsequent meeting after Christmas break, and I also offer everyone a good time. All members and members of the General Assembly welcome. I wish them and the people of the land a happy year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u3	By the end of a new year, it was reported that on December 31, 2019, Guðrún Ögmundsdóttir, a former U.S. general, had been dead in the Center of the Land Hospital at 69 years of age. Guðrún Ögmundsdóttir was born in Reykjavík on October 19, 1950. Her mother's parents from birth were Ögmundur Jónsson, head of staff at the Vita and Refect Institute, and Jóhanna J. Guðjónóttir was a Guðjónsdóttir. Guðrunar's mother was Hulda Valdimarsdóttir's daughter. Guðrún completed a BA course in sociology and social advice from the University of Hóar in 1983 and a master degree in media school from the same school in 1985. During the study period in Denmark, Guðrún took part in the social activities of the Icelanders and was in the management of the Students in Copenhagen and later in the government of the European Students abroad. Guðrún had various jobs, both before her university education and after her return from school. She was even. head social worker at the Women's Hospital and practice teacher at the National Institutes of Medicine and Social Science for a while in the University of Iceland. Guðrún was long involved in politics and was elected deputy representative of the Women's List in the city of Reykjavík in 1990. During 1994,1998, Guðrún was in the city council office of Reykjavík as city representative of the NYU list and was vice president of the Council of Social Affairs. At the same time, she had some confidential work in the city of Reykjavík. In 2018, Guðrún was again elected to represent the United States council. At the 1999 Parliamentary election, Guðrún Ögmundsdóttir was elected by the Council of Smoke for the United Nations and served at a council until 2007. At the General Assembly, she was a member of a Social Affairs Committee, a General Committee, and a Health and Security Committee and was involved in the Norwegian operation of the Parliament. Guðrún Ögmundsdóttir sat at ten legislatures. Guðrún was always a zealous fighter for women's freedom and women's rights. actively involved in the activities of the Red Sock movement. Then she was actively involved in the rights of minorities, especially the rights of homosexuals and queers. She was the transferer of the priest's authority to confirm separation, a bill that, in fact, could not be carried out in that attack, but its regulations were later legalized and considered to be human rights. It was widely arranged, especially where the right or position of the so - called perimeter groups had to be added. Last year, Guðrún was an honorary knight's Cross of the Icelandic Czar for a contribution to humanity and an equal struggle for gay people. After Guðrún finished church assembly, she served as an expert at the Ministry of Education, but in 2010, she was hired to the Ministry of Justice as a Contact of the State and to the individuals who were oppressed in government homes as children and teenagers. In this work, its knowledge was made good, as well as a burning ideal, for the right of those less fortunate. A better person would have been found to care for this difficult assignment, and for good reason, he was consulted by Guðrún's Ögmundsdóttir. Guðrún Ögmundsdóttir was cheerful and liberal but also a fighter with a rich sense of justice that stood firm when needed. She was both blunt and forthright, and she was popular and popular with friends, both political and anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - force. It was like the light of the environment when the deep but a little rough voice of the Ögmundsdóttir sounded, even though it was only through the radio, not to mention how much fun it was to meet in person. I ask a council to remember Guðrún Ögmundsdóttir, a former general, by rising from her seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u4	Borist has received a letter from the following hired advisers who are requested to provide written answers to queries: From the financial and economic secretary for the application of this application. 610, on the increased commitments of the State Penitentiary for the pension of Iceland's President, Minister, Generalist and Supreme Court Court, from Ólafur Ísleifsson; from the Minister of Health for Säponsé. 702, improvement for health care failures, from Jón Þór Ólafsson; and on deck. 780, of the Department of Health, of Andrés Ingi Jónsson; of the prime minister for the question ofaxes. 563, on the staff issues of the Ministry and its institutions, from Birgir the son of Þórarinsson; from the minister of foreign affairs for the inquiry of thumbs. 124, the Ministry's comments on legal opinions, from Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Issu; on the ish. 113, on the commitment of the Icelandic State to properly introduced EU types, to have a priority in Icelandic dishes, from Ólafur Ísleifsson; on the icicle. 508, about propaganda, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson; and on the threshing floor. 71, for the release of international contracts, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson. Finally, letters from the Department of Social Affairs and Children's Affairs for the Säponsia. Fifty-five thousand, of the ministry's personnel and its institutions, from Birgir the son of Þórarinsson, to the threshing floor. 614 of the Department of Health at the Ministry of Health and Department of Social Affairs from Helga Vala Helgadóttir; and on deck. 555, about Child Services and Association, from Jón Þór Ólafsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u5	The president considers an agreement that may last longer than the Congress, if necessary, which will probably be only just after eight o'clock.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u6	A meeting arrangement is set up for the discussion, assuming that the presidents of all political parties, or their surrogates, will issue, and will have ten minutes each, except for an outside senator who has three minutes. Residents will be permitted and maintained by clear rules so that all government groups will be able to counter the government's speeches. The order of the classes is as follows: the left movement is a green supply, the Central Party, the Consequences, the Independence Party, the Piratars, the Frontauticians, the Reunion, the Party of the People, and a member of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u7	Mr. President. When we completed our pre - New Year Assembly, the last discussion in this hall was about the situation after the storm that took place in December. When we got back to the council, I expected that there would be a lot of people in mind those events that came west on the beach when a great avalanche hit, on the one side of Flats, and, in fact, two floods, and a great flood that fell into Sufjörður and caused a tsunami in the South Valley. The forces of nature are on our minds, and it is important that we discuss them here in this hall, both today and in the weeks to come. But I'm gonna start somewhere else. I'm just gonna start with the economic situation when we start this new year. There is evidence that after the fall of WOW a year and the consequences of it, for the sake of tourism, the economy has cooled off. However, biographies achieved by spring will help us achieve what has often been called a soft economic landing. It is expected that the reduction in GDP in the economy will be 0.2%. The consequences of this creviction are mainly found in a labour market in a substantial number of unemployed people. In other places, however, we can see stability. Inflation is near the cost of inflation, and thankfully, most indicate that this contraction will not be prolonged. We also see that the government internalized the biographies through measures that have been relevant, and I specifically refer to recent changes in tax and tax reform systems, while tax decline was also implemented through a three-stage tax system that ensures that the income price is best. The same can be said of an increase in child improvement, which will make a major difference in income groups. We also see interesting figures in recent updates on the Tech History, the government database that we opened after a considerable preliminary work prior to about year. This site has now been updated in the past year and information has reached back to 2018. It will reveal a number of aspects, but it will then be available to add further changes to this site, which will account for information including: of possessions, debts, education. What we see in 2018 is that there is an increase in the amount of resources that is not funded. Unprecedented responsibilities have never been higher than in 2018 with older citizens, married couples, single parents, and single women. However, the responsibilities of single men were higher prior to collapse than those of 2018. Cities from state and rural areas to single mothers have not been higher and provisional income taking into account capital income increases more proportionately in the lowest level of income but decreases in the highest. So when we look at the situation before 2018, there are positive signs in the air. Similarly, when we examine the actions of the governments surrounding the 2019 biographies, it is designed to level and ensure continued stability in the economy. This does not alter the challenges that arise, and we look forward to making financial plans at a time where there is good reason to promote public investment, not just because of cooling the economy, but because of the obvious growing needs in many parts of our infrastructure and our system. In fact, this government has increased public investments by 45% since it took over and knew someone to think it was high. It doesn't make any difference that we're still right in approaching a historic average because of the situation before the current regime began. Also, there is a great need, and I will come to that in the following regard to the disturbing forces of nature and how they have played us in the past few months. But what are the big issues? Yes, during the first few weeks of the year, it is the health issue that has obviously been the most part of the political discussion. I feel that they should be briefly discussed in connection with increased expenses, as there is much discussion of the need for increased expenses and increased investments in the health system. This year, health - care contributions will be 245 billion, but in 2017 there were 206 billion on solid prices. It's not an investment, so here we are talking about the healthcare system. There has been the largest increase in health care. I believe that, according to the definition of the vote for a new health policy, there is a parallel in the World Council that we especially want to support our health care facilities as our first stop, and we feel that it is normal to be especially supportive. The increase to Land Hospital has been 12%, except for investments, except for pay and compensation, so we have these facts. There are 5.6 billion in dollars, but at the same time, the average country had an increase of about 10% in health care centers. It is important to watch our whole system, and it is important that we discuss the situation at the Land Hospital that we also discuss health care, health care, and health facilities outside the country and how our system works as a whole. Medical conferences, including those described as health care factors, have been conducted. to achieve this overall vision. The reports and assessments that have occurred over the past few years have been taken, and I'm a subject for the development of the McKinsey report, which was reported several years ago. Of course, this does not mean that we have to do better and that there is no more need to be done. We can talk about nursing and living space where we've seen resources in their business increase by 23%, but financial resources in investments have increased by 62%, 1.7 billion. Of these, we can name the capital area, where there has been a long demand for a growing number of nurses, who increased in 2019 by 78 C.E. But we need to look overall. We also need to draw this out of our position of age, although we are younger than other northern nations and have more children. We need to look for a long time and we're taking care of a health policy. At the same time, we need to respond to the situation now, and as a result, the health - care minister now has a group of emergency departments, because it is important to react to the situation there. There we will expect to see suggestions in the near future, for this group is going to work fast. Finally, I'd like to discuss the situation, first after the storm in December. At the end of February, a special assembly that I appointed immediately after it will produce a decree, as foretold. I have believed, because I know that this group has sat down since he was set up, that there will be good suggestions. This group will meet with the members of the General Assembly, as was called in the conference conferences requesting special consultation with the council, and I have asked them to meet with the appropriate committees of the Generals before these proposals are introduced to trust that we will be brought into this discussion by all members of the Parliament. But I also know that local authorities have had meetings with the group as well as with national experts. The tsunami that fell today in January reminds us once again of the forces of nature. Much has been discussed in recent times. It was in 1996, after the Flood of 1995 at Flats and Susavík, that a strategy for implementation was adopted by the superfluous forces living at a higher risk. It was, as reported in the media, for the 2010 project to be completed. Similarly, when funding for these matters is considered, it was possible for budgetary funds to support community expansion, including the year 2004-2007. ... becauseof the fortresses and big business back then. Then these funds were reimbursed and reduced immediately after a collapse. Then re-infused and then reduced. We can only see on a chart when we look at funding to the surface that there have been a number of factors and that financial resources have taken into account the economic developments at any given time. There have been a lot of governments involved in that. So I say in these matters, we have to look ahead. We'll see about that. 20 billion projects that must be carried out to ensure that these activities are properly prepared. I believe that in this room, we all agree that we can do it much faster than we've done so far. If we continue at the same pace, it will not be until the middle of the century. So now, there is a budget minister and head of state and resource to address the surface fund will suggest a new plan on how we can speed up these projects - because we see that they are important. It is important that we be able to ensure the safety of the entire population, no matter where they live. Living in Iceland is a challenge. It is also a wonderful project, but events in the past few weeks have surely shown that we need to do better when it comes to the tangible structures we have to deal with natural disasters. Also, I would like to report this in the end that this has brought us all to our attention on the public defense arrangements, and it is a special pleasure that the Minister of Justice will use the next month to review these matters specifically and the local State Marshal is on his way through the country to have conversations with people about how we can trust our public security.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u8	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for a fine speech. The minister mentioned that the big issue is health care, and it can be said with the minister. Of course, health issues are a large and important group of subjects. So I'd like to ask the minister, in view of the numbering that appeared at the highest level. Prime Minister, whether it is advisable to examine the management of the Land Hospital, whether or not it is proper to put a special government over the hospital, even looking to business at this largest hospital, in view of all the funds it brings. Then I'd like to ask the Minister if it's not time to take positive action because of unemployment. The prime minister rightly mentioned that much public investment had taken place, but what will the minister do to help the business to make more investments? What should the private sector do to help us reduce our unemployment and get ahead?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. He made it particularly a business of the Land Hospital, and I want to start by saying that I have full confidence in the managers and staff of the Land Hospital that I think is facing very complex tasks every day, as we have seen in the accident crisis that have been going on in the past few days. Hv. A senator specifically mentions the possibility of establishing control over the hospital, and I believe that there is something to consider. We have an example to form from comparable university hospitals. I think it is important that such governments be viewed as being implemented, whether they really work as professional support, as well as being a general boost to every hospital operation. We've seen some very successful examples of this, and I can, for example. Named the Karolinian Hospital in Stockholm so that I do not rule out that idea. But I reiterate that I believe that both the staff and the managers of the National Hospital are very professional in their daily tasks. I come here to an official investment - this is one minute, and I'm sorry I didn't get an answer that would be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u10	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the answer and continue with the second question I raised to her. This is certainly a short period of time, but I ask, in view of the fact that a minister puts much emphasis on being added to public investment: What will the government do, what will prime ministers do, or use themselves to promote investment in the private sector, private companies? Is it not time for us to consider how we can help with the companies who actually have a job in the country, e.g. by reevaluating taxes or costs on the job life? Do we not have to live there for a positive motive so that we can look down on our unemployment, allowing us to see more produce in the country, and thus respond to the challenge we face? It was revealed in the press yesterday, I think, rather than the day before, that unemployment has not been so much for a very long time. This is especially common among foreigners, and there is especially so in Southnes. Something we have to do to react, and we can't just watch that the state begins to invest and expand in some way. We also have to look to the private sector, so I'm gonna ask the secretary what we can do there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u11	Mr. President. In terms of public investment, I mentioned in my speech that it has increased by 45% since the start of this government, and we are still not in an historic average. It has to do with the investment of the industry because all of it plays together. I can mention one example: When the public introduced plans for investment at a speed store, which is part of the government's energy exchange program, a private sector came in very strong, with something like it to invest in their sectors, so all of this works together. That is why I give special attention to public investments in my language. I think that we can also support the job to invest in important projects. Then there is a reason. A senator's situation in the field of employment. We had an agreement to reduce taxes to a financial company. We've seen that there's been a slow drop in income bills in the country. Let us look at how they have been treated, but let us take care of them, for it is also important that order be made clear. Of course, we are examining all these factors, and this may help to ease financial companies, which, of course, are the largest creditors in the private sector.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u12	Mr. President. It's one minute, so I'll have a simple question. I'm going to ask about two things that did not come out of a talk at the highest. Prime Minister. First, I'm going to ask you a question about action in terms of the equation. Of course, it is a joy to see that the government, after the labor movement had them at the table, presented the third step at the bottom. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister and a yes or no answer is sufficient: Would it not have seemed most desirable to have the fourth step on a very high income?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u13	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. In fact, he said that I had not specifically discussed operations on the equation, but I considered just what the evolution has been like. The development in 2018 was the provision of budgetary income, which is appropriate. A senator has often discussed, increased more proportionately by the bottom of the income, and decreased by the top of the income. Actually, we see an increased equation in 2018, and the same is shown in the Gii Index. Hv. A senator mentions the three - step tax system that I am happy with, and I consider it a good way to achieve the tax reductions that are coming into operation, how they work. Would I have liked the fourth step? asks why. Senator. I have further stressed the initial procedure of this terms, which was raising capital taxes. On this, I've put more emphasis on these tax measures, and I believe that what we've already done is all we've done to bring up the extra equation, and I think the numbers already show it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u14	Mr. President. You're right to the highest. The prime minister mentioned the equation and what has been done, but here we are talking about the future and what we will do. Is there any further action to be expected? It seems that the case of the government may not go much further than that of the government complex, i.e. They'll stop before they get to the council. Now there's another thing I like about the media that there's a lot of disagreement about, i.e. planned for a central nation park. V.E.G. A secretary of transportation has expressed himself, a number of senators have done so, and I ask: " What will be the result of government witnessing if the VG does not pass through the central highland park?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u15	Mr. President. The frontroom's a good place to stay, I'll just say what. A senator, thanking him for the answer. Once I have considered the terms of the Treaty, I see that there is a very good approach to follow-up and conduct so that I do not recognize that the government's front room is packed. It's my opinion that the case should be taken for granted. A member of this committee, which is the bill of the Environment and Resource Minister on a central nation park, is in the board's confidentiality and that the process should be completed today so that I expect to be prepared from these comments. I just want to say it's a big idea. I realize that a central nation park is a big idea, and I've heard several members of various groups say it's important to be careful, and I agree with them. I agree that it is important to be careful. I believe, however, that this is a great idea laid down in a government contract, and I am not very concerned that we will not find good solutions to the comments that have been made in the past. enrolled in the home management of this park. [[The president calls.]] I'm not so worried that we won't find a good way to do that. It's important to be careful when we're working with big ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u16	President. A report by the Prime Minister on political and administrative trust is presented by permission of the President: ▪ Over 70% of the nation, corruption in the administrative and commercial systems is large or large. Depravity experiences give strong evidence of trust in politics and politics. It has been claimed that the experiences of the Icelanders of corruption and that corruption charges in community talk can cause the public to believe that corruption is greater than the case. However, such conclusions are avoided. It is a false speculation that a strong social debate exaggerates corruption, and it is important to bear in mind that the lives of individuals of corruption, whether justified or not, undermine the democracy and the principal institutions of the community, have been undermined by society's leaders, such as the U.S. President. There's two things in this. First, the serious situation is that a corrupt state of the government system and that it undermines democracy, whether it is justified or not. And second: Pointing out or talking about the problem is not the problem. Shooting the messenger is not meant to increase the public's confidence in politics. I'm asking the highest. The prime minister, in view of the diminishing trust in the Council, sees the results of this persistent distrust to the community. What will be the result?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think it's a matter that's hard to discuss in one minute, because trust in the Council is not the only thing to have - or distrust at the General Assembly. We can take, for example, the various institutions of the democracies community, the city of Reykjavík, and others, in which we see figures of distrust. What can we do? We can attack system changes. Here at the Council is for the sake of a legal case on the protection of informants, who I hope will soon be delivered and may become an important system modification to strengthen confidence. New information laws were used with broad support, and I am grateful that I believe that increased transparency will sustain long - term confidence. And in the next few days, here's a bill for defense against conflict of interest, a bill that was in the living room for a while, and now is about to be distributed at the General Assembly, where it is exactly based on a growing interest log and thus increasing transparency. But this certainly is a long - term project. All of these suggestions are based either on the group of work that the senator mentioned or on freedom of expression. [[The president calls.]] I believe every step of these matters is going to bring us forward, but I also know that it's a long run.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u18	President. I appreciate the answers. I know that one minute is not much time, but it is an enormously important subject, and it was not addressed in the Prime Minister's speech. In February 2018, confidence in the Generals was found 29%. In February 2019, trust in the Generals was 18%. I wonder what the conclusion will be in a few weeks. This diminishing confidence in the Generals gives room for right Popes who feed on pretending to be more rightful authority than what is democratically elected. This has been true in many neighboring lands already and is not what tells us that there should be something different here. Government action or failure and secretary to do so reduce confidence, but it does not promote it. The results it can have for society are frightening, especially in view of the fact that right poultry classes that feed on distrust, anger, and divisions, prevent social progress and deny the greatest risk of the climate crisis. What will prime minister do to reverse that frightening development? I know it's a long run, but we still have to take action very soon if we're going to turn this trend around and keep us from going in the same direction as many peoples around us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u19	Mr. President. Thanks again. A senator who fights in his opponent's way. I think it's very important that we all do. There will be no change in political trust, and it will not be promoted by any one person. The way we work as a team is important, however, there is a single individual or few who are not able to make a great deal of trust in Jehovah. What we can do is change our system, change our code, change our order. Looking back on the 12 years I've been at the council, there's a lot to go on in this setting, whether you look at what I mentioned above on information law, interest registration, or ethics. None of these were present in 2007 when I sat down to a council assembly. Yet, in the General Assembly, they were trusted at the highest. On what did it build confidence? We also need to ask ourselves: " What confidence was there then in the Council? Because sometimes trust may not be based on a solid foundation. Actually, it was much higher than we saw in the countries around us at the same time, so the 2007 reliable readings suffered a major shock. [[The president calls.]] We see that although we share in the process of improving this setting, such as Here in this hall - which I believe we have done - extraordinary events can result in much distrust. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry. It's very difficult to talk about this in a minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u20	The President has full faith in the abilities of the senators and the highest. Minister to say much in one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u21	Mr. President. Except for the many traumatic events that have happened to us in the past few days and weeks, that may be the economic situation and the situation in the person we are concerned about. Thousands of people are losing their jobs these weeks, and I would be interested in asking the highest. Prime Minister: What are the measures that the government has planned to take to stimulate the economy again? We face many challenges. Despite the expansion of the Federal Bank, it is suggested that the growing numbers yield, e.g. not to companies. Our financial system is still expensive, the start-up business is complaining about its business environment. The most unemployment is found in a group of academics, as measured by a labour agency, a new Icelandic economy. So I would like to hear what the government is planning to do to reduce the high unemployment rate we have seen in recent weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u22	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. As I mentioned in my speech, we see the economic situation that inflation is nearing the level of inflation. We can see stability when it comes to the currency, but at the same time, we see increasing unemployment. This is, as it has been pointed out, a display of the cooling economy that we have to deal with, but it's not how we've seen it in the first place, if we can say so. It's cooling, but not sudden depthation, as we have sometimes seen before. We will also need to look for the key to this success, first of all, to the national finance policy and second, to the direction of money policy. And that's right. A senator points out that despite the growth of the Secret Bank, there has been a problem with how growth rates have actually been spread through financial companies. I mentioned earlier that part of our decision to charge a decrease in bank tax, except that he was naturally thought to be a temporary operation at the beginning, is also to lighten the financial costs of the proletariat in order to borrow money for the sake of the future, while we can do better in public investment, based on the initiative of private living. I'll find out more about this in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u23	Mr. President. This is the very essence of the problem. It is developing what the government was warned about at the beginning of this terms, that it would start out with too much optimism as a guide in the general expansion of government funds, and at the same time, it would be starving the important investment of the government. Now it would be good to have less investments when the economy is cooling off, as foretold by so many people. Government inactivity has been prominent in other areas. The decrease in bank tax was immediately delayed at the point it could have brought to the benefit of the financial expenses. But no, it was postponed. Nothing has been done about the structure of the financial system and the necessary economy so that it can serve better our economy, our professional situation, our people, and most important - but it was never on the program of this government - it has not been done with our currency, but 5% of our systems and technology mention that this is a good currency, 75% say it is bad or all bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u24	Mr. President. If I remember correctly, there was a why. A senator in just the government in 2017, a government that chose not to add to public investment despite the enormous needs and prospects of a position in the economy. That's why I was called upon to expand my public investment, as I went over here, because it was wise to be economic. Hence, precautions were also taken for those who lose their jobs by increasing unemployment rates, such as that. A senator runs less on me. I went over it in this necklace that it would be very important to do because this was one of the things we could see ahead of us. Hv. A senator speaks of the currency as a major problem in the economy at the same time, and we see that by controlling the money policy, the government's financial policies, and the labour market policy we're working together, we have a completely different trend in the economy than we've seen before. Then it's here with the old placard, I'd say, that all of it was the currency' fault. I just can't agree with that. However, the head of tourism, industrial and innovation has introduced new measures when it comes to promoting innovation in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] I think, and there I think we what. A senator will agree, once again we face the fact that when it comes to our economy, we need more variety, we need more emphasis on the work of knowledge, and that we are working. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u25	A respectable president. V.E.G. The prime minister entered the biographies agreements, and I would like to ask the highest. Prime Minister of these seemingly live contracts except those most in need, older citizens, and poorer people. Is it possible for this government to make sure that that group gets the exact agreement, or is it totally grudging for the government to discriminate against that group and make sure that it will be the only remaining group? I'm asking because this group hasn't had the fattening they've all had. This group was also left there. If we put it together, we're talking about tens of thousands of people to whom this group is missing. Is he going to take another trip to tighten the jam chair and look into the empty refrigerator or do something for it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u26	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm going to repeat what I went over in my speech, as we examine the 2018 income story over the dispositions of different groups of people, and it shows that arrangements without money have never been higher than in 2018 in various groups, including older citizens, married couples, single parents, single women. We need to look at how these groups are and how their income has developed. What has the government done? Yes, she was raising the market for employment as soon as she started her job. It has set the standards for older citizens and microplies when it comes to reducing the health benefits. That certainly is one of the major equations we can perform. A social and child - care minister presented a bill adopted at the General Parliament that reduced the decline in disability - welfare professionals, who greatly cover the population and the extent of it. A senator asks if there's nothing I'm going to recommend at the U.S. Senate. Social and child - care minister is also the bill for a review of the social security system when it comes to microenergy pensioners.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u27	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister, your answers are down. This group cannot survive. It's impossible for him to live on average. It's just not possible. There's a large group that doesn't have a knife and spoon, below $200,000. in a month and in a very poor way. How can it be said to this group on average that it has so good? On average, we can make it really good with one foot in the ice and the other in the fire. On average, it would be cool, but no one can live on the average. There must be some protection in the constitution that everyone is as legal as then I ask: Why is that not true of this group? Why is he not lawually charged with the contract of life that everyone else has received? What is it about him that causes him not to have this right?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u28	Mr. President. I just agree with what. A senator, averages only tell parts of the story, but they still tell a great deal of that story. We must consider what the evidence tells us about the development of arrangements. Similarly, in 2018, it is stated that provisional income has increased, taking into account most of the revenues at the bottom of the income. This government is reducing taxes, and it does so, making it useful for income groups. This government reduces the health - care costs - and for whom? It sets the standards for microadolescents and pensioners. This government was particularly looking forward to older citizens by raising the cut - off market for employment because it also counts that people can continue to make money after they reach their age. Let's watch what we're doing. All aims towards an increase in prosperity and prosperity for all groups. It simply cannot be overlooked, Mr. President, when discussing these matters. Facts cannot be overlooked, but at the same time, we must be ever ready to reevaluate our systems. [[The president calls.]] One of the things that happened to the social and child - care minister is to examine especially the most efficient group of elderly ones and how they can be met. They're the people who don't have the right to be in the social security system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u29	President. In winter, we have seen how difficult and dangerous Icelandic nature can be, as it is often available and often. Now I think it's very important that we at the council send from here a message when Congress is beginning again after the year that the council is aware of the great need for building structures throughout the country. It was a pleasure to hear the grandest. Secretary of finance, then back to the highest. The prime minister mentioned earlier that the building of avalanches would be a challenge, but much more is needed. It takes construction of electrical lines, fortresses, roads, communications, and various important government services, the structure of the health system and the education system to form throughout Iceland. It is surprising that now that the State's spending has increased by 50 percent in a few years, there has been no greater investment in the interior, but it is because we live here in system management with the consequences I have described before, although politically it seems that one category in the government, the left, can go forward. He does, and he gets through the strangest things. More recently, the government's latest case, and hence the left green, which is bound to be highly political, are plans for the establishment of a central national park. From the name it may sound good, but as often as it is, when the left movement shows up their plans, a good name is given to them, but when you look closely, they can be perfunctory. And I'm a little afraid that there's one thing or another that needs to be taken into consideration for this proposed national park and no wonder that people around the country and especially the local authorities have expressed great concern over these plans. It is essential for us at the council to intervene in that, of course, the danger is, only in the light of experience, that there is being another tool there to reduce the democratic authority of voters and to bring it to some of the institutions then under the left green control in one way or another. For example, we have seen this trend with another noble plan, i.e. A framework that was to be designed to solve the inevitable problems in terms of activation and other natural quality. They all agreed that there would be a way to do this in the most reasonable way, to reach the most reasonable conclusion in each case. But who has done so? This arrangement has been abused as a means of preventing nearly all projects, and even now even plans that went through this process completely unsatisfyingly stopped the various stages of the system. Therefore, it is proper to be cautious about such plans as this central nation's park, although I believe in the general agreement among not just members of Congress but almost everyone of Iceland's people how important it is to protect our individual nature. An aid in protecting nature, not just the nature of Iceland, but the nature of the world, is producing energy in the environmental ways that we can do in Iceland. It is surprising that people who speak the most about greenhouse gas emissions and even proclaim the end of the world within a few years should resist the use of clean energy that we can produce in Iceland. In other areas, either the plans for building wood or the plans are little to become so vague and make changes so constantly and repeatedly that it is almost impossible to understand what governments are going to do and whether they are going to do something about it. Then, most of all, I am talking about transport, since the transport program has been inexpensive and constantly changing since this government began. In fact, the flight policy has become a special concern, especially the state of Akureyri, and how it seems to be expected to reduce the importance of the Akureyri airport. In fact, this was also shown by the government to stop using the flying fund, which was particularly designed to build up the airport in Akureyri, which made it possible that the funds would be used later when the motive arose. If it's not for that now, I don't know when it's gonna come. In the capital area, these two combines, one on the other, with the problem of land transport and air transport, in the worst possible way. The mayor of Reykjavík comes up with a plan to remove Reykjavík's airport from the Emerium, from Reykjavík, as well as that the state will be doing this with him and the mayor and repairing a city line, a project that no government minister has ever been able to answer what population and what is going on. He has only been able to say that this will likely cost a considerable amount of money, but there will be ways to finance it and then with some kind of payment on the public. I'm sorry, this is the result of sitting by system management when the system is controlled and starting projects such as this city line that, of course, will cost a lot more than anyone has anticipated, will become much more difficult and more expensive, not to mention the future situation. The government has been mixed up in this nonsense like so many others. So, what do they get back? Yes, there is going to be some job in the rural areas around Reykjavík, which in the vast majority of cases was to complete long ago, although only some of it may have been stolen. There is now no more stability and the vision of the future in health matters. In fact, there is no doubt a future vision in the mind of the health minister, and we have seen some evidence of what that vision is. It is developing socialistic health systems in Iceland, while working on it and making decisions on the purpose of the health system. You're right. You're right. In recent years, the prime minister mentioned that there has been a tremendous increase in contributions to health. A number of governments in a row have made a significant contribution to health care, but do they receive this for the huge amount of donations that might have been expected? No, I'm sorry, because you don't think about fixing the system. The system is able to control itself instead of making wise, democratic decisions to repair the health system and to get more money for the health - care system so that it will be more useful to patients and to health workers throughout the country. At this council, we will present the results of a great deal of work we've worked to deal with the booth, save for the State, and reduce the stall, while ensuring better service and improved rights of the citizens. We will do so in a way that contributes to an investment in the land. The best solution to cooling in the economy is to attack a positive inducer that is responsible for making an investment more powerful and partly resulting in development in the state and in part with private partners. We will also define how the state can better handle its financial resources, use it better, especially in the health system, so that the building of infrastructure can be accomplished, whether by electrons, by health services, or by whatever means all over the country, and by the benefit of taxpayers across the country. I hope these suggestions are going to take a course at the General Assembly with this government for the procreation of the Generals, as they call themselves, but at least will have solutions that we can talk about and will hopefully take advantage of. [[The president calls.]] I would have wanted to discuss many other things, Mr. President, but I'll do that for the next few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. We're gonna go for a second. A senator is not a natural team. We may be a product of the fact that this government is formed over conventional lines of right and left. In effect, we are in a state of distress and opposition and have a different view of many matters. Among the things I believe we have a different view of are the centrally highland park. A senator turned into a subject of talk earlier. Hv. A senator has obvious opinions within the national part of the government, with members of various members of the Parliament and prominent posteminaries and independence party. That's what I wanted to think about. The senator, whether he feels that he will win, his team in the government, or my team. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u31	President. That was an interesting question. It so happens that I am not only a functioning politician but also a political amateur so that I will try to make this relatively independent assessment as an independent source of opinion. In view of my experience, I'm afraid that it will help. The senator will work in this case, as in earlier cases where the voices of those who want to be careful, win things well, look for the wisest way, and so those who come most aggressive, the hard-liners off the left side in this case, who may also know better than those who would join me in the government to play at the system, get them to work with them for their goals. We can see this, for example. with the city line I mentioned, I think most people realize it's a bunch of nonsense and will cost a lot more than expected because it's started in the system of these same groups, and they're going to get it done. [[The president calls.]] I'm not talking about the mistake with Land Hospital.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u32	A respectable president. The town line is a great deal, and it will not cost anything in terms of the high profits we will all gain from it. But I'm not up here to discuss it. I'm the problem of all of us living with a government that we're dealing with. A senator unites in opposition. There's been a little talk about the maintenance room in this government, the room that's filling up. There seems to be an increasing number of major issues in this waiting room, and the board seems to be doing little. I'd like to pray. A senator who is interested in politics wondering how long this government will have - in view. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u33	Mr. President. I appreciate the opportunity to press on in this role. I'm afraid, as if I were afraid to be a team. A senator works when it comes to an extreme argument, that this government will last throughout the ideal period because of the way it was formed. It was never a government for any political vision. She boasted that she was not a government for certain political issues. Rather, she was going to form a broad appeal, which they called. It was, in fact, just about reaching enough senators with them so that they could exchange cabinets for ministers. They serve as ministers to this government in such a way that I doubt that it will be easy for them to get out of it without force.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u34	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Sigmundur, Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson, traveled through many parts of the world and entered the infrastructure. Now that we've set up a flight policy for the first time in history, I'd like to ask if at some point we've put in such clear will as to build the airports in Akureyri and Egls as airports. December 19th. it was signed by the declaration of transport and rural administration and the travel, industrial and innovation of its secretary to ensure further construction of the Akureyri Airport so that he can serve as a pilot into the country and expand the area and travel services in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u35	Mr. President. The problem with that as a dog. A senator asks about so much in this government. The statements do not mix, often and often not even the names given, and the consequences and actions. That's what we've seen in transport, especially the flight issues where, as I mentioned earlier, people haven't even wanted to use the air development fund to build up in Akureyri. Because we're talking about things that don't mix sound and image, as some people say, there are constantly talking about consultations in all these governments' plans. It's supposed to have taken place in a wonderful discussion of the Middleland park and a great consultation, says s. A senator, on transportation. But what is the case? What's your attitude, e.g. The mayor of Akureyri or Akureyri for government plans on Akureyri Airport? I don't like that attitude to see that the discussion has been particularly good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. The task force made up to work according to the Declaration includes representatives from the two stewards, as well as Array, Eycel - in fact, called the SSNE - travel service in Northern and Istavia. That's where these parties work fully. The group has started their job and will finish in March 2020 to advance the airport at Akureyri. The first assignment is an improvement. The extension of marketing and marketing analyses in the North countries as well as the destinations and costs for permanent improvements in manpower and services are also being observed. What does the senator mean about the lack of air development funds in the market over the last few years? As far as I'm concerned, every cent that's taken off that fund has been assigned to the airports in Akureyri and Bulgaria. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u37	Mr. President. It is true that this fund has been used for this purpose in recent years. I'm here to refer to the highest words. Travel and industrial minister about this fund and his future. In flights like all transport, and indeed most of the large areas of the government, the problem is not that a person cannot hold a meeting to sign papers and get photographic, cannot broadcast reports that some of them sound okay, but nothing will be of the process. There is a great need for support in Iceland's international flight, especially in the context of the discussion as it was before the last election, where the groups that now make the government would be more successful. It was spoken of various avenues, the Scottish route, and the other way that was to be carried out. None of these things have yet to happen, but they've been assigned a team like what they were doing. A senator described. He is to be returned sometime this year, and we will see when the election is due whether or not it will have been accomplished. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u38	Mr. President. That's not what you're asking. paritaprevir Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson, son of Gunnuga, always succeeds in waking up the rest of us if we are asleep and throwing hidden bombs that we have the opportunity to ask back. A senator about. He here speaks extensively of the need for the growth of infrastructure; electric cables, health systems, education systems; and the lack of more systems. A man here speaks as if he never came to the board of this country. The latest case he spoke about here, the wonder, is about a central national park, a case that has been in preparation since 2016, and has been in a presentation throughout the country for two years. Hv. A senator speaks of the strangeness of this matter, such as the driving force. A senator chooses to call it, not to reduce the democratic authority of the rural authorities. In fact, there are other members of Congress. In fact, I am part of the group that agrees with the National Guard's resolution that this bill is actually giving too much power to the local government at the expense of expert assistance. [[The president calls.]] But I want to get it past you. A senator will see how he can foresee the future plans of the central highlands if this is not a way of doing so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u39	Mr. President. Yeah, I knew about this case before it was too late. The Environment Minister began to introduce it to meetings, and I believe most members of the Parliament have observed its progress. We had a representative on the premeditation committee. When that representative felt full - time that it was possible to get to a reasonable level, he left that job and did not take part in bringing it to the highest level. Environment Minister is now speaking at meetings. The discussion, whether it is the highest word. Minister of the discovery, or chief sponsor of the minister, and proposal, sir. A senator named Land Protection, I don't think there's anything out of the air to call Land Protection among the main sponsors of this proposal - but when you listen to the purpose of their implementation, you start to worry that this is intended, as I described earlier, to reduce the authority of the voters over your environment and to move it to a distinct group. [[The president calls.]] I know I haven't answered all the questions yet, but I'll try to finish it later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u40	Thank you. A senator for the answer or the answer he did not complete, but he reminds us that national protection is the largest interest organization in the country when it comes to nature protection and environment, so it is not surprising that we elected representatives listen to what comes from it. The second part of his talk went wrong. A senator also referred to the city line as a fateful task. I agree completely with that. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson told me earlier. It's tremendously good, and it needs an assignment, though it would have been sooner. But I'd also like to hear from what. A senator's vision of minimizing traffic, reducing pollution, which is used as a health problem, and a major health problem. But I'd like to get it past you. A senator's vision of this is seen in his eyes, for it is rarely heard from the mouth. A senator's solution to the problem of the capital area, and those who come here for work from nearby rural areas have to deal with in the form of pollution and traffic. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u41	Mr. President. First, in an effort to answer the question about what I can see in the highlands, I can see that I am able to make peace there in addition to what is already peaceful and even start new national parks because there are a lot in Iceland's highlands, and I see no reason to doubt that all members of the Parliament agree that much is great in Iceland's highlands. [[Good.]] But the highlands - this large part of the country, the center of the country - cannot be totally free to form electric activations or electrical lines, for it is not today. Now that we have to contribute to the battle with greenhouse gas emissions and to use our environmentally-friendly energy in Iceland and connect it more closely with our country's settlements, in some cases we may have to go into the highlands, but in this case it should, of course, be done in a way that would be as low as possible. Time is up, Mr. President, and I can't even begin to discuss the city line and my answer to it. [[The president calls.]] But there will be an opportunity for us to do so later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u42	A respectable president. First thing in a talk, then. A senator, and actually in other matters before, I have noticed that there is something wrong. A senator seems to be concerned about democracy when politicians try not to make emotional decisions and make decisions for some sort of professional opinion or allow themselves to be controlled by a professional approach. That's why. A senator's concern is that politicians do not control enough. On the other hand, there is no total lack of support. The senator at, e.g. Pirata's idea of democracy, and I mean in all things. Whether there is a public participation in the decision-making process itself, there is a lack of support. The senator of the democratic settlements and the democratic protection, or when it comes to promoting the freedom of an individual who is a different member of the democracy, I don't notice the support of the democracy. Senator. When it comes to public access to information, you see that transparency and other means of participation in decisions are also lacking support. Senator. It's like whisk. A senator is a big fan of democracy when it comes to controlling politicians. When the time comes for individuals in the country, whether as voters or as individuals in their own lives, they lack the support absolutely. I just want to get it on a clean, respectable president, anyway. A senator supports this wide structure of democracies and whether he is willing to do so in general or only when he himself wants to rule more when he finally gets back into power. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u43	Mr. President. I hope I can reduce my anxiety. A senator and even a member of the council will be pleased by the fact that everything he mentioned is things that are of utmost importance to me. I've been speaking for like that. ever since I got into politics, there was more direct democracy. Of course, no matter what ways a person pursues certain goals, I'm not sure that I always agree with The Pirates on the roads, even though we can agree on our goals. There may well be a much greater basis for us to work together on these issues. For example, the question was "woe. " A senator here, an individual who is a matter of great concern to me, and the need to promote the rights of the people in the country, especially now that we live in these disciplined image politics that always sort people into groups and evaluate people from which groups they belong rather than each individual's rights. The short answer, Mr. President, is that I think there is a huge platform for us in this united government stand to discuss at this new council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u44	A respectable president. There may not be a sound on the broadcast, but here at the council Hall, we hear protests on the outside calling for a new constitution. It was common for such protests to be held during the July 2013 /2016 season. Then I was in a position of government, huh? A senator was then the highest. Prime Minister. What I felt was characteristic of all the politicians that was then being practiced was a total disregard for the general public's claims for a new constitution, especially a direct democracy. I've never heard what. A senator supports these matters until now. As a matter of fact, I'm happy if I am. This suggests that there is an excellent suggestion that 10% of voters can provide binding national law on bills or issues adopted by the General Assembly. I haven't been exposed to any support since then. A senator on that subject. I haven't seen it since. A senator supports in word - except for the first time, as far as I know - some real improvement. But it's the same with the Independence Party, that's always very nice about individual freedoms. It's very important. It's very important. And democracy. It's an amazing thing, and it's important that we set rules to strengthen it, and suddenly everyone on deck is missing, except, of course, Pirata.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u45	Mr. President. Hv. A senator insists that he has never heard me discuss these matters. I'm sorry that he's not paying more attention to my talks and apparently not reading my articles, but I know that it's enough to do with members of Congress, and not all the articles that are written in paper and maybe not get all the speeches. But I reiterate what I said before, I think a lot of what I said. A senator mentioned something very important. However, this is not to say that all members of the Parliament agree on the best means to reach them. Of course, the political debate has to be about the routes, not just the goals, but the routes. [[I was...]] There is a slight tendency, sometimes to feel at times among the Piranha, to believe that they are the masters of truth, the only humans who have the right goals, but also the right ways, and even to condemn everyone else. That's an unnecessary negative approach, I think. We should do much better, as I have offered earlier, to find out if the government side, this exceedingly densely dense and united government opposition, cannot work these issues together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u46	Mr. President. Advertisers of the government are proud to boast that they have attacked a massive biodiversity, built - in, and committed major activities against climate change. But let's just see what reality is now in the government of the Left Green, Independence Class and Front Class. Economic growth has disappeared, and unemployment has doubled. The emergency unit is in a state of emergency, and the health - care system is ablaze. Greenhouse gas emissions have increased, alien issues are in unsaid; hunting costs are twice as low as when the government took over. In fact, poorer and older citizens have fallen further out of other populations, where the biographer contract does not reach all Icelanders, our judgment system is in an upset state, and we are on a gray list. This is despite the fact that Iceland and I in recent years have enjoyed extraordinary economic prosperity. We in the United States have tried to keep our eyes up, pointing out that not everyone can be well. While many people are struggling to survive, a few become richer and richer. In fact, the government does not promise any real changes in terms of equations. Moreover, it lacks a vision of the future. She has had plenty of opportunities, has shown her true face, and the emphasis is now becoming clearer as the election begins. Mr. President. Before the election, health matters were the biggest issues, and the voters of all classes put them in first place. Yet, in spite of the highest. A health minister has justified VG's presence in the government by the fact that the category was saving the health system. There are still conflicts with large groups of women who engage in an extremely important work under evil circumstances. Recently, too, a picture of the land hospital has been made that we cannot accept. At that time, health - care in many parts of the country is threatened, even at places where experience shows that they can remain isolated from the capital for many days. A 5% real - life increase in money to the Land Hospital can hardly be counted as the expected big offense. The same is true of education too. It's got the highest. Education Ministers have made a grand statement about a major growth, but the fact is that the real cost to high school has fallen together and that contributions to college have been replaced. We're still halfway close to the rest of the North countries. What is so grave about this shortsighted view is that an investment in education is our most likely guarantee that we can continue to be competitive in the time of the marvelous changes in the world. Education is not only a prerequisite for us to take advantage of the potentials of the technological revolution, not only because solutions to the greatest challenge will be in knowledge but also most likely to bring us closer informed and healthy communities. In addition to school investments, we also need to consider the young ones, the young students, who will have the quality of life for the next few decades. Education is an equation, and we like to talk about giving all children equal opportunities. The question is, do we? A fourth child does not receive adequate help at home. Impartials are far worse out here than in the rest of the North countries, whether or not we talk about the first generation or another generation. Let us not forget that these are the children of people who in recent years have put tremendous weight on the scale of the economy. Children who live in poverty also suffer worse. We have to deal with this in a way that allows young people to have as much opportunity as possible when they come out of their lives after school. The events of winter have also directed our light to an eviction of the land, and it needs to be corrected. During the last few weeks with an incomplete electrical distribution system and avalanches, this has been made clear. [[Up front.]] Actually, the results of the PISA analysis show this too. We are to develop and we can develop a community where all the people of the country have a potential for good health care, primary education, acceptable transportation, and, of course, all other necessary community services. Sadly, there is still a lack of effort, and many examples show this. Achieving this is simply not enough for the halfways of the government's media to feed on. It is not enough to strike with ambitious goals in a government covenant. To produce clear, clear, courageous, and united measures, we must also have imagination and vision. We need a government that gives people security and individual prospects for developing and cultivating their talents, for the benefit of others and for the benefit of others. A few people like Iceland simply can't afford to leave anyone behind and must give everyone a chance to pay. Mr. President. The world's greatest issue today is global warming. Action against climate change calls for firm, organized, and forward vision. We need to set ambitious, time - appointed goals, establish laws, and ensure full - time measures. True, they can be a burden to us for a short time, so it is important that in the government, determined individuals who follow such actions are aware that we must protect the weakest groups of society from their influence, even though all must contribute. Of course, future challenges like this and the technological revolution will have a profound effect on our lives, our work, and our prosperity. In the years that followed, we must use it to ensure an acceptable advantage to all, making the changes more equal and more happy for all people. The shortening of the work week is a very close subject in this context. It is a huge chicken business that would affect both the environment and the prosperity. Then I'm not just talking about 15 minutes or 30 minutes, I'm talking about even the whole day's work, but that's why we have to set long - term goals and work hard on them. Mr. President. A government in general is inundated with all polls, and although there are elections and elections, I have no doubt that people in general do not believe in government unions of quietness or damage to the same level of damage as this government community is. Most of us here can undoubtedly agree on a number of major interests, and we should do so. Yet, many of the major challenges we face today can never be satisfied with the compromises of conflicting classes. Granted, when it comes to an unjust fishing system or an old - fashioned agricultural system, which produces many farmers aquifers or a weak currency, these categories seem strange. However, groups that believe that increased equations are desirable, want tighter measures against disaster warming, and face the future inexorably must simply work together. I think it's time we stopped letting the Independence Party continually choose new partners after the election and then run their own business. Now it is time for a concerted and broad - minded government without the Independence Party - for all the people of the land and for generations to come. It must be a government that emphasizes social justice but, at the same time, has the power of creation, vision, and courage. The union truly exists in such cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u47	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The son of Einarsson's fire for his speech. I'd like to have a word about what he said about greenhouse gases and that emissions have increased, probably in two years, two and a half years, the time this government has had, but maybe for a longer time, I won't say about it, but I want him to explain how he gets it out. Farming has not increased, in the fishing trades, some 200,000 tons of reduction has been due to changes in fuel: assessment, increase in consumption, and increase with the new village station in the capital area. The energy exchange? We have been in second place in Norway for transportation. We have 29% binding emissions in this ETS system, much higher if we want to, and we have increased binding, which I know is not emissions but have also mattered. [[The president calls.]] So now I want an explanation for his words - real.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u48	Mr. President. I might have had to be a little more specific. I'm talking about emissions directly on the responsibility of the Icelandic government. That's the situation. We are talking about the policy of this government and its responsibilities, whether in these issues, economics, or other matters. But I think it's news if it's true. paritaprevir In effect, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson is going to come up here and state that he's okay with the actions we've made and he thinks they're enough. [[Foreground on: No.]] [[The point is, he didn't say it.]] The measures we are responsible for and the government are responsible for bringing more emissions in recent times. Surely, then, we must demand ambitious action. I'd rather ask who. Senator if he doesn't want to join groups that want to follow a VG to a greater degree than the partners now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u49	V.E.G. President. Am I happy? No, no, I'm not happy, but I wasn't asking the senator if he wanted to ask me if I was happy. I was asking him how he would get it that in Iceland emissions of greenhouse gases increased over the last few years. I'm also going to show him that he may be responsible - or his party - on, should we say a building of inscriptions in Helga? Why was it all right all of a sudden? Or something in the silica world? Why was it all right all of a sudden? Because it is this way that both governments that have been determined and their achievements are, however, that we have gone a few miles in order to reduce emissions; and to increase binding too, certainly. But that doesn't mean coming up here and saying: The government is responsible for increasing greenhouse gas emissions, if the senator can't prove how and where.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u50	Mr. President. In fact, there has been an increase in government emissions. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator cannot avoid that. We live in a facility where Iceland has the main emissions of CO2 on an individual, from economic systems, of the largest emissions in the EU. It's a project we have to deal with, and I would have thought it might be sitting in a glass house with simple glass and throwing rocks to reflect on the arrival of individual categories of industry. Hv. A senator may then be able to write only in the media in recent years and recall what happened to VG has had exactly the same structure. [[Up front.]] But I think we should, instead of going to some cocky shit and putting it on words, try to get together to establish a more significant and ambitious level of control. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u51	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A candidate for a fine talk that highlighted a big picture that is so important that we keep in mind, especially in these times. It has been shown many times that our economy in Iceland is a resource-driven system. We have a successful fishing route, our sea resources. We have new energy resources and tourism to nature, but we have left behind a bit of the fourth sector or the technical sector that encourages the growth and growth of innovation. Here, earlier today, the prime minister even said: that she wasn't worried about the old chewable when the currency was mentioned, but it was good to label: 75% innovations and sceptres have shown that the currency is the factor that has the negative impact on their business at home. Shared. The senator of this concern of indifference as to how we are going to build a innovation and procrastinator so that they can grow and thrive, not just by temporary action short-term, but by a longer-term growth? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u52	Mr. President. Of course I'll worry them. I think we just have so much to depend on, that we move on to modern employment and start using intelligent and such enterprises, rather than building everything on resource-future industry, even though it can lead to amazing things and innovations as well. I think it's amazing when government officials downplay the time when professional life itself calls for a better environment. In fact, I think it's the best thing to do not even want things to be taken care of but to take them over on just one board. I think a few people like Iceland can have a very rich future by technology, I don't talk about if we are increasingly using the digital revolution.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u53	Mr. President. Thank you for that answer. Very clear and very close to looking to the future. No longer can you overlook the pleas of a innovation and sceptical company to make the currency environment better for them. It is in direct relation to their operation and the possibility of simply surviving in the next years and years at home. There is another enormously important issue. A senator also touched on his speech. It's the climate. I'd like to know if in a way he shares the concerns that arise when you watch the board talk about the environment. We see that there are different priorities for emissions, e.g. whether or not we should aim at 40%, as the European Union does. I know that within the parties, I only heard it last day, there are some who believe that we should be looking at only 29% of emissions. I ask if the senator's concern is that there is not enough solid solid solidarity - and that is, in fact, not enough solid solid solidarity. Environment Minister - to follow up plans for the fight we all have to face in climate change.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u54	Mr. President. Yes, it was the red thread of what I was trying to say. I think we are facing tremendous challenges that require everyone to calm in the same direction within the government. That is why I find a government designed for political stability, which, in fact, will be so much less than just sitting for four years, the wrong answer to the situation today. You see, I think we'd need to think now that we'd sharpen our lines in the councilroom and we'd work together, those who work together, and then the rest of us work together. I think it's the only right way today. I do not doubt for a moment the will and interest of the left greener to take steps far more bold in this necessary group of subjects than in order to do that they need other partners.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a brilliant speech. I thought for a moment he was telling me about elections near, his speech was somehow that way, but very good though. So I'm just a little sad to hear that he couldn't hatch by saying that there was an election this morning or the other because we really need to change rhythms. I agree with what. That's what a senator does. Hv. A senator mentioned the matter of education and the importance of increasing knowledge and, in fact, training people to the future, who can create something new and enjoyable for us and take us to the next step, into the coming industrial revolution. Of course, we need to have employment, which can accept these fine people and create them work or manage them for jobs and for them. I'm asking why. A senator, whether he is so far from my belief that it is important to look for ways to ease jobs so that he can clean up or expand staff, expand innovation, and create more new ones. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u56	Mr. President. Icelandic politics are like weather in here. Who knows if the election is closer than we're wandering with, but they're pretty close. And the government's already shown the cards. Yes, we need to develop education, based on knowledge, and only strengthen our values. But we also need to grow our companies. I proposed a case in the fall that was designed to improve the position of SMEs, i.e. Enterprises that have under 49 employees. We need more variety. We should stop building on few pillars, which, if they fail, may prove to be extremely expensive. Among the things in this council that I agree with, for example, are my proposal. to reduce insurance costs to these companies beyond what we now plan to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u57	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. This is exactly what I think we need to focus more on, how we can help our companies hire people and also put money in their innovations. It is not enough to get a lot of hot, educated people. There needs to be a job for that. That's why I'd like to ask, too. The senator thereafter, whether it is far from acceptable for us to unite in the positive aspects of climate. Instead of paying taxes and fees, we would be rewarded, e.g. EICs and individuals who enter the lead of energy exchanges, exchange vehicles and electrical vehicles, provide tax discounts for innovation, leading to new environmental solutions, etc. New international fuel in some way. Because I think we're doing too much of that - or you want to go that way, you better say - just think in taxes and bad motivations for individuals and businesses.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u58	Mr. President. No, I don't rule it out at all. I think what we need to do right now, because we know we need to respond to our behavior in the last 100 to 150,150 years here on this earth, is to collect all available weapons into the cage and use them. Among them may be positive incentives. I think there are a number of cases in which people have fallen to increase their consciousness. Of course, it does matter how motivated they are. In some places, they are useful, in some places they are not. I think it should be burdensome to display unnecessary loose conduct. We have to do both, I think. But I shall totally sit down with the bang. A senator discussing these things. Green catalyses in this area, as do so many others, and we may have used them too little.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u59	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. I can't say that I disagreed at all. However, I have to say that in the season after the crash, 2009•2013, there was a category of whales. A member of the board who is now often cursed in sand and ashes, perhaps not ending up strangely on the subject of the age and was not a situation that could really be expected of anyone, in a political sense. But there's one thing I have to say about that terms. I thought there was a pack of whales. The senator, in effect, tries to change too many things at once. There were environmental laws, that was the RIV, the Constitution, and the EU. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator's priorities are only due to a lack of ability to find much in his speech. A senator about whom I could approach feels so important that the priorities of our politicians when it comes to changing the foundations of the government are very clear - and I mean the constitution that I would put in the highest priority. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to hear some attitude. When it comes to his ideas about improving government, the senator's priorities, especially the way politics works. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u60	Mr. President. Yes, it may well be that in 2009, the government has been highly imprisoned and has had an ambitious government contract. Even so, after it collapsed here, thousands of people were, if not tens of thousands of people, at the brink of despair. Some people are not over them yet. They had to clean up, so they were literally calling for all these things. I realize, however, that corporate organizations have to do compromises, and this certainly needs to do the same. The problem with it, however, is that there is such an overwhelming gap between the basics and the class policy - to the top right and to the left - that the result will be something like this. For my priorities, there is a number one difference in the standard of living in this country. [[The president calls.]] However, the Constitution is extremely important.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u61	A respectable president. I have to make history that this ideal period of 2009 was started with, reminds me, 120 billion bucks. At a angle, it was zero when the Independence Party began. I just want to remind you that it's not the Independence Party that this is a state fund. Of course, it cost a huge amount of sacrifice for the common people and for the state and the politicians. But back to your priorities when it comes to politics. The Piranians and I have very many issues, contrary to what some might say. They are more important than others. But when it comes to putting the issues that we want as politicians, it is important that the foundations of the government be established on a solid foundation. That's why I think it's so important that we combine, the politicians who are in charge of a new constitution, that it's the most important thing because on that basis we will build decisions that can, for example, be made. achieve the desired goals. A senator speaks so beautifully of. Some decisions are beyond our agreement. [[The president calls.]] But it's the foundation, the constitution itself, which is a democratic agent, that occupies decision-making and the like, and that's why it's so fundamental before we get to the issues we like, maybe, maybe, in the popular politics.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u62	Mr. President. Of course, I'd love to get a new constitution, even if that was the case. It was then the prime minister of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir who started this process and put it first. Of course, we will try to follow through on it. On the other hand, this can happen along with other tasks. While there are people in the country who do not have a knife and spoon, can't live from month to month, can't allow their children to attend leisure, do not seek health care, even live in insecurity and despair, I will still always put that assignment first. But we'll take the constitution with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u63	A respectable president. I'd like to begin by saying I'm happy to meet you after a break by starting a discussion about political views, looking ahead, and looking forward to a success of this arrangement that we know. It is tempting to look back only as soon as the future is discussed, and I want to say here that it was interesting to listen to the President of the World Council at the end of the Christmas Eve when he went over the performance of the winter. It was not clear how many cases went out at the council, and although government success may not be measured solely in a number of Congress cases, the list was very much at odds with the claims commonly heard at the council Hall that there was a need for a case from the government. Historically, many cases were resolved in the fall council. Among those who ended then was a bill that I had tried to lower taxes. They dropped by 2020 by 9.5 billion dollars. There, the reduction in insurance costs and the reduction in income taxation by individuals is one of the largest. About a year ago. a year we put into the air a site called the history of income.is which is a simple way to show the development and formulation of the income of the country from 1991 onward. It is a unique web to examine biographies in Iceland as well as social mobility. The story said there is not least an amazing increase in money during the last few years, and this apparent increase was supported by a responsible bargain on the public market last spring. There were milestone agreements, with government support in the form of measures that range from what I have mentioned, a decrease in taxes, but also other factors, such as longer maternity and housing resources. These contracts laid the line for contracting public markets, which I expect to be safely sailed to, in accordance with the framework of the provisional agreement. Of course, this large contribution to the workforce is most commendable in the interests of stability and the continuation of the life - style application for all the people of the country. At present, we will see what happens when public finances, employment markets, and the work of money policy become the same. We enjoy little inflation, see very low housing interest, the lowest we've seen, the state's funds have been on their way to reduce their debt, and thus enjoy the best historical experience. These are material standards that are of great importance to the quality of life that we can enjoy here, but especially for the future, both short and long, because these articles discuss how we can better live with the public, providing good health care that we have in recent years put ahead of our priorities, as well as improving especially the interests of those who have least. But to measure the core of what I'm referring to, how we really have it, how we can measure it, the government has not only opened up these historical data, it's a completely unique web in international comparison, but we've also recently decided to take up more standards and have introduced new standards of prosperity and quality of life that will affect our effectiveness in important aspects of the future. I can also say that at the fall council, we decided to cancel a number of other fees, such as credit on bicycles, electric bikes, and environmentally friendly motorcycles to a limit, and we extended the incessities for cars that run other than gasoline and diesel oil. This work together as a team of independents has contributed to our goal, to reduce taxes on the public, and to reduce negative climate impacts by promoting environmental transport. Transporting is for our own good. In the fall of the long term, we introduced a long - term agreement with the rural communities in the capital area, which aims for better and environmental traffic, as well as for which this government has established plans for a very important national transport improvement. The discussion gives evidence that we are in a country where quality of life is the most important thing in all nations. Maintaining that position will be an enormous challenge. In this regard, the competitiveness of our country is very important and how we approach our individual solutions. You can't have everything. If you want to live in a high - paying country, a country where pay is the highest among the nations, you are offering back the risk of making an investment. To ensure that Iceland pays the highest wage in all countries, the fact is that economic growth in such a country is limited. We can see this, for example. in a recent clue where Gylfi Zoëga writes about the known facts that there is a risk of less investment in a country where salary is high compared with production. We need to be honest about whether we are on our way to the right balance when we constantly stress that our country's wages are higher than elsewhere. It is certainly desirable, but it is not available without cost, and in general, I think we must accept, for in a Senate hall, absolute laws are often overlooked, as in economics, that we never have enough quality to play to solve each individual's problems. The quality we have from playing is too limited to solve all problems. This is a known economic law, but in the political field, economists have taught economists that the first law is to ignore this law of economics, to give the impression that we have from endless funds to play to solve any problem that humans want to address. I'd like to mention this because I hear a call for a release on large cases requiring increased payouts at the same time, when people complain that government spending has overcrowded, and often when it comes to the growth of the state budgets during the past few years in the Senate hall, it is very easy to overlook the growth of the number. They have mainly grown in social security, where we use the rules to ensure that the funds are best returned to those who have a minimum. There is also a large growth in donations available to the health system. The greatest growth in all the prime charges of this government is for health care. A large percentage of the health - care providers are going to ensure a better salary for those working there, since we were having discussions about securing a better salary for those in the health - care field but less than that for today's discussion. This shows how much change has been achieved in a short period of time. This is the priorities that people skim past when they call for some kind of reassignment of the money. It is called upon to look into SMEs, and I focus on the need for us to look into most of our jobs in Iceland, ask us what we can do to stimulate the work that contains most of the jobs in the country, what we can do to increase the amount of oxygen we can do about them. However, the fact I mentioned earlier cannot be overlooked that, while Iceland has the highest salary in the states of the north or in the OECD, these companies will be slightly limited, and there is a chance that we will now pass through a period of some economic development. In this context, let us also consider whether we do not enjoy balance, such as what we now experience with low interest levels and inflation around goals, since history has allowed us to get used to being in a crisis or tension. Looking for a thrill level, I suspect that people will soon begin talking about how attractive it would be to get back in balance where we are about to be. It's today. A respectable president. I think the projects ahead are demanding but soluble and that we are waiting for a spectacular and progressive spring council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u64	Mr. President. It was interesting to listen to a talk at the highest level. Financial and economic ministers. Throughout the period of independence and his followers, following the collapse of a bank, deposit has been neglected despite economic prosperity. Over the last few weeks, this failure has appeared to us in the road system, the electrical transport system, the avalanche defenses, yes, and in the health system. Since the turn of the century, the population has increased by 25% over 65 and over 60%. In this country, we place far less money in the health system than in the control countries, and then there's no point in pointing to a young nation because we're also few, and there's a more economic advantage in running a good health system here. I'm gonna ask him, "Do you think he's the best?" Is there not enough work to be done by health - care professionals with the problem that we all face each day?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u65	A respectable president. Of course, I don't think it's a good suggestion that I spoke to a health care professional with a good case. On the other hand, I would tell you why. According to a senator, the figures she is likely to refer to mean investment as the proportion of land production being based on a much larger national product than the population. In recent years, a senator has had increased doubts, especially after moving further to the left, on the value of economic growth. It is our view that in order for us to meet the demands of a powerful public education, health care, building up the infrastructure in Iceland, we need a lot of production in Iceland. It's been going great, we're about to finish something for the longest economic development in the history of the Republic, and that's all we've been good at investing in the community. We've been making the most of it, and we've been preparing for the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u66	Mr. President. Let's talk about numbers. V.E.G. The secretary of finance is making the taxpayers unnecessary $200,000. 24 hours at the hospital emergency room because patients cannot get to full or closed wards at the hospital, which cost 70,000 dollars. ritonavir. V.E.G. The secretary of finance is making the taxpayers unnecessary $200,000. 24 hours for patients in the emergency department in Fos Soil instead of paying 40,000 bucks. for 24 hours in nursing homes. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has the taxpayers pay for unnecessary travel and living expenses for the inhabitants of the country that are unable to attend basic health services in their home, and bring them to a land hospital that is completely overcrowded. Despite the fact that we may not agree on much, the highest. Secretary of finance, can we not agree that this is an extremely unwise arrangement for the tax of the people of the land?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u67	A respectable president. We get more of the perplexing questions from whence they came. A senator and statements. I'm not letting the taxpayers do anything or anything. I have supported one health minister after another in various endeavors, including the following: I'll refer to the fact that a few years ago we had a hospital opening up to relieve the hospital so that it would not be blocked because of a lot of pressure in the emergency room. However, despite some efforts, emergency departments are repeatedly in trouble. That painting party, a respectable senator, is with the Prime Minister. It's all right. A senator taking up this discussion at the highest level. Secretary of health. However, I point out that I have been a spokesman for mixed solutions in Icelandic health care. I've been telling you that we should fight every waste in the system, that we should use the flexibility of the private enterprise, while more voices in the Senate have spoken against the private enterprise, even when it's obvious that it could lead to saving the taxpayers as well. A senator has suddenly become a spokesman. [[The president calls.]] There's something new from the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u68	A respectable president. V.E.G. Secretary of finance says we live in the best country in the world, have the best standard of living, are all great, but it's still the same financial minister who said in his day that he would not trust to survive the lowest possible benefits of the government's social security with his children. Whether he still exists, it would be good to know, and if he does, how will he solve the problems of the individuals involved? We know that there are individuals with less than 200,000 bucks. And there's a large group that has just over 200,000 bucks. to survive per month. Everyone realizes that there is no hope. I'm asking the highest. Treasure Minister: Does he have any plans to make sure that this group can live a decent life, survive the benefits, rely on what he does not trust to do himself?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u69	A respectable president. Here comes a senator, who is the embodiment of the views I traced earlier, i.e. it is said that any human problem can be solved, that is just a matter of will, that there is no shortage, and that there is no limited quality. The reality, however, is different. I assure you, the quality of life is nowhere greater than in Iceland. I'm telling you, I'm telling you. That does not mean that we have solved each human problem. There is no impossible task. A senator believes that Iceland is less than any other country because we haven't. However, we have done amazingly well, and it is not necessarily a matter of bringing as much money into the social security system as we have done in recent years to improve the quality of those who are in pensions and who are in disability. We've done much better than we've made a great effort. This shows all numbers. In case of a moment. A senator wants to talk to me about whether I think it was important, I say, "Yes, and we will continue to do so. " [[The president calls.]] It is fundamental in our policy to have the energy and consumption of the land in order to do exactly this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u70	A respectable president. Secretary of finance claims that poverty cannot be eliminated, that some in Iceland cannot be prevented from starving and have to line up after assessment a month after dinner, that this is just not possible because of lack of money. At the same time, I'd like to ask, "How will he settle this and who will pay for the cashier loan mess, 300 billion losses due to mistakes? " There seems to be a way to shrug. Is he doing something about it? Where's he going to send the bill? That amount of money alone would take care of these people for years, but he comes up here and says: "There isn't money, they don't exist - but they've been lost. Why don't you investigate into your basement why you're losing all that money?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u71	A respectable president. I didn't say any of that at all. I've been told by a senator. I'm just saying we can do better than that, but it doesn't happen by itself. We need to make good use of the land, we need to focus on increasing production, and we need to produce the quality that is given to us, e.g. From nature's hand, and emphasis on the human resources of the land. That's why this government has, like, a government like that. focus on innovation. In terms of the apartment loan fund, the estimated loss of camp loans is now estimated somewhere around 200 billion of the loans. That account has not been paid. It will fall upon a government fund in some proportion of the 200 billion in the coming years. This problem is now stored inside the IL Fund. I'm pointing out what. A senator in the reflection of this loss of a government fund, and it appears in the lower interest of the households, who got rid of their funds and enjoy today lower interest rates on the market and can be estimated at around the end of the year. A dollar a year ago, all of these 200 billion are the benefits of having been released from trade with an apartment loan fund. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u72	Mr. President. If I don't forget I've got the biggest memory. The minister of finance is a minister of the government for nearly seven years, today, and, of this, most of the time as secretary of finance, a prime minister of nine or ten months. We were reminded that the forces of nature can be a disturbance in Iceland, and we have prided ourselves in trying to defend them. Now the situation is that the above - mentioned defenses are very lacking, and we are very far behind in all schedules. I must ask the highest. Ministers how he intends to use himself in the future and how he intends to provide needed expenses for the government's financial affairs over the next few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u73	A respectable president. In the late 1990's, it has been observed that the fund has never been funded as high or higher than the amount paid to finance the fund. It's never been like that. In chapters, I think it was understandable, for example. That men have been in a design phase or such, but to me it is unjust to present a particular tax, a kind of tax, in this isolated purpose, and not to make contributions for the purpose of the past. From this position, I intend to cooperate with a minister of the environment now seated, and we will update the fund's projects according to what has been designed, and it is estimated that it is practical to do. [[The president calls.]] That's what the fund needs for more money.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u74	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear this. In many cases, such projects are to be used as some kind of fluctuation device. I think it's time for me to give up that way of thinking. When we have the safety of the citizens, we cannot have a swing device. I will, of course, observe the fact that projects are being held and that projects will be fully rejected in the coming stages. The minister of finance will have support there, and I believe it and trust him to mean what he says. It's a big project, it costs a lot of money, and it's a challenge for the highest. A government to find the money within the budget that the government has. [[The president calls.]] It'll be exciting to see how it solves it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u75	A respectable president. It is true that there will be an increase in financial resources that will affect the survival of a government fund, and this is without doubt the main reason why the funds have not been given the entire amount of money that has been funded by this special payment through the period of over 20 years. However, let us not belittle the fact that much has been done, and it has made a difference, as we now see the latest example of Flatune. Having been in the past few years has made a difference, but we simply have to do better. I have shown that taxes or fees on which to pay a certain purpose have to find its way to home. This was true when we took 2013 and stopped cutting down the radio fee that was supposed to flow to the State Radio, during which time it was taken into the government budget. [[The president calls.]] Against such things I've fought before, and we need to correct the wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u76	President. It's like the highest. In order to fulfill the Mosaic Law covenant at the height of the time, a financial minister pointed earlier to health - care professionals, specialists, raisings, necessary increases. Minister of finance in the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollon. This happened after the doctors in Iceland went into history for the first time in a strike. The government finally responded at 2014/2015 and increased pay. If I recall the numbers correctly, it was about 4 billion that this would cost a year in its time. Then, nurses went into a strike. It would have cost the same amount, even though they are twice as many, to make peace with them and to let them land in the place that they were paying the same amount, although not quite the same as that paid in our neighboring countries, as it was shown in the election of the classes that were then in government. I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance with this in his own hands, but lastly he agreed to put a restraining order on nurses' strike: What is the situation now? [[The president calls.]] Nurses send out a declaration that patience is running out. [[The president calls.]] Are we facing strikes there? What will the secretary of finance do about the situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u77	A respectable president. That's where we're going again with this discussion that I brought into my story, which is that we can't spend the same dollar twice. Until then, attention was given to improving the healthcare professional's quality of life. The requirements we are facing today with regard to the health groups are very different from those we faced back then. The senator reviewed. Of course, accepting the law here at the council was an emergency arrangement, but it was put to the test, and it passed. A court order came to its conclusion, and the conclusion of a procedure was not far from the nurse's claim at the time. I'd like to mean that in the performance of this court, nurses have been severely rewarded, even if it's possible to regret that the dispute had ended in that way. I'm going to continue to be hopeful that the negotiations that are now over with the contracts are over. [[The president calls.]] It is, in fact, there. They were talking about a shift program that needs to be changed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u78	President. You see, I'm worried about this position in view of the fact that it was in the national meetings of the Independence Party, which came into the Constitution, the campaign and the government's policy, that the staff was the spine in the system and should be put first, it wasn't when staff, nurses, and midwives and other medical classes went into a strike. There was a ban on the strike. A month before the strike, a surgeon had said that there was a medical emergency and that it needed one or another to solve that problem. Citizens had already said that they wanted health priorities, 90% of the population put it first, so there was the money and that was the promise. It wasn't a thing to finish. There was a ban on the strike. It has now become clear, nine months ago, in the Icelandic nurses'statement that patience is gone, and they feel that the representatives of the finance minister of this negotiation are not doing so, so I would say that the steps are shaken. [[The president calls.]] This government contract does not say that the staff is the spine or anything like that, so there is not even a promise. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, I worry and hope that the secretary of finance will soon ease people's suffering so that they can find some relief. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u79	A respectable president. I don't think we're going to get along much longer with a silent conversation here at the Senate Hall. I refuse to be intimidated by the steps. The examples show that we have reached a conclusion that eventually led to a high level of employment, not just in the Land Hospital, but in the general health profession. To a far greater extent, what is involved is different from the salary. Of course, there is something that needs to be concluded, but it must also be called to a conclusion on the general market. What is really about now is the challenge of changing the schedule, and it's a good conversation, and I'm telling you that our people who are sitting on the contract table on the state side are doing a good job in that conversation. What I'm more worried about than these individual contracts is the lack of nurses in general, not just in Iceland, since they're a lot of people at other jobs or in medical institutions, not caring for patients, but some kind of management job, but in general in North countries. There are probably tens of thousands of nurses in neighboring lands, and then we face the fact that the nation is growing older. [[The president calls.]] There is reason to worry about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u80	President. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for the speech. I'd like to ask him why the Independence Party is against a private initiative. I would like to ask him why the Independence Party is against people having the opportunity to make use of their own interests. I'm going to ask the highest. Minister, because he earlier said that public funds need to be handled well and that would not be unlimited, and would like to attract the attention of the highest. Minister once more on the fact that people are being sent to foreign countries for replacement operations that cost over 25 to 2.5 times as much as they can do here, and cost 2◯2.5 million per person who goes outside each year. This cost has been increased by seven times over the years since 2016-2019. Now I ask, "Why is it the highest? " The minister and the Independence Party so badly to their personal efforts that he is drawn into an extreme health - care system rather than solving this matter? [[The president calls.]] There are 1,000 waiting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u81	A respectable president. ▪ It's good to wear the glass in your shoes when you're walking on rocks. I don't think I'm against the private enterprise. I noticed, however, that the Central Party voted against it when we wanted to give people the opportunity to enjoy their strength, and a industrial minister recommended for a bill to clear a license to sell used cars. Why is it difficult for people to take courses and go to school, etc., if they mean something by being allowed to enjoy their lives and to do whatever they want to do and to resist? In the days of the Independence Party at the Ministry of Health, we offered some clinics with excellent results. Note what has happened at the medical clinic in the capital area after we began making money come with patients and made no difference as to whether a person had a private business or a government operation at the clinic. [[The president calls.]] There was a major movement on the subject, and the service level improved, the list being shortened, so, of course, we just have a long list of matters that we believe in our own initiative. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u82	Mr. President. I think the people of the clinical community are happy that the government cares about car sales. V.E.G. A minister's course was natural, as is usual, by which he was asked. I reiterate this: Why are we paying 2◯2.5 times more for every non - Witness operation that needs to be done at home? And I wanted to add one more question. The Independence Party was formed not only to support the private enterprise but also to help people gain a better life on their own terms, but to help them, a minister has been very contrary to what we media have suggested, that the elderly e.g. You may enjoy what you earn by making a living that does not rob your pension income and that will cost 100,000 dollars. They'll have a shame-free target shut down that doesn't cost the state money. [[The president calls.]] It gives people a chance to survive on their own, which I thought was founded on the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u83	A respectable president. Hv. A senator would have many plans for me, to be against the clinical community, and to have a personal business in health care. It's just wrong. I don't want to go too far about it, there's no way to do this. On the other hand, it does. A senator like us has some kind of rights system in social insurance, where people have the right to be paid whatever else they want. This is wrong. It's wrong that we cut people's pensions through the social security system. We won't. The government will not take a cent from people who have saved themselves in pensions and who intend to use it in their later years, who will not take a dollar from people. [[Up front.]] All of this is wrong, the Hall of Congress is repeatedly wrong about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u84	I didn't ask about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u85	That's what I'm talking about. A senator asserted. On the other hand, we have a system for the weak, the social security and the pensions of the elderly, and we use these resources to support those who have mentioned them, the least in pensions, professional income, and other incomes to support themselves. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm not going to argue that it's not good to be able to raise the limit and it's been on our policy list to do that. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But it's wrong that we're taking over people's pension rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u86	Madam President. We are gathered here to discuss the political situation at the beginning of the year and the projects ahead. The year is 2020 and the government of St. Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, the highest. Prime Minister, has been in power for over two years. Since the development of the government, we have learned that it is something completely new and will point the way towards improved practices, social reconciliation, and long - term stability. This is a government that has to declare its objective of promoting the General and the public trust in society's politics and institutions. This vision of the members of the administration is reflected in the introduction of the Government Treaty to which it appears, by permission of the president: In a new government, groups running the political spectrum from left to right will try to add a new tone, responsibly place themselves in the key projects that put Iceland in the front order, making the knots so that it will be good to live and work for young and old. [...] Long-term stability has to be followed by increased transparency in activities and administrations to strengthen the public's trust in business management, financial life, politics, and community institutions. Since the collapse of the economy, there have been many successes but still lacks the social reconciliation that the nation has long called on. She needs to work.How much do you think she needs to do? These were the promises of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir at the end of 2017, and they did not interfere with discussing what it has been like to fulfill beautiful promises at the beginning of 2020. Have these classes broken a new tone, as they put it? Have they set goals for long - term stability? Have the public's confidence in business affairs, in financial matters, now or in institutions and politics in general? Have we pushed toward the social reconciliation that the nation has long called for? President. For a long time, I have listened to this new tone to which the formation of this government, the tone of reconciliation, responsibility, honesty, a tone that welcomes criticism, and constantly works on strengthening trust with transparent and careful management. Instead, I hear the same old tone, the same tone that has sounded in Icelandic politics for years. That's a false note, Mr. President, although aesthetic sound may be heard in between. That tone is never to admit mistakes, never taking responsibility for their actions. It is to rewrite the story on its own satisfaction, no matter how shouting inconsistency that story is with the truth. That tone is the use of silence by finding scapegoats and shooting the messenger. The tone sent is clear. It's worse to point out the problems than to create them. It's bad to talk about a medical emergency, says health minister. It is unfair to talk about the inability of a fishing minister, says prime minister. It's just a political thing to talk about incompetent seafarmers, says High Priest. President. When they ask about the projects ahead of them, they're good. These include sharpening the government in order to fulfill its promise of growing trust in politics and institutions. To that end, we have excellent guidance, which can be found in a report from a group of prime ministers on the advancement of political trust. The report includes: Entrusted in the financial institutions and legislatures, said, by President's permission: It is obvious that trust in financial institutions and the legislature is low. Such distrust comes from the 2008 financial collapse, which, overall, had a negative impact on the survival of organizations. The lost trust in 2008 has not been regained. I cannot help but agree with this resolution by the head of state, especially the financial institutions, to protect the public's interests against greed and fraud of money lovers, along with the dishonest and enormous ties between governments and commerce, the high trust the Icelanders had for the government. After a collapse, the public saw each fraud after another, not just the one that took place in the wake of the crash, but the traitors of politicians to the citizens up to today. In this regard, there is a betrayal of promises of national law on the continuation of Memberal discussions with the European Union. There was a betrayal of the legalization of a new constitution adopted by a good majority of voters in a national law, and this was part of a fraud that revealed that many of those who lost his pension money to the public, the strength of the people in society, their work, and the pay had fled from the tax industry and left the public with the bill. It became clear to all of us when the Panamas became public. These documents also revealed that the three ministers of the then government had property in the tax industry. Who took responsibility for that prayer? Perhaps the prime minister who fell from his job but otherwise did not accept the consequences of the conflict of interest that he concealed his people? A respectable president. A report on the advancement of political and administrative trust also shows that scholars have a strong link between trust and responsibility. If governments fail to indicate to the public that the management system is in the hands of qualified people, elected agents and staff administrations, trust cannot be created. In view of this obvious conclusion, I must ask how the existing financial minister, who himself is one of the Ministers who kept money in the tax industry, can still enjoy trust as such. Is it really hope that I ask how a former justice minister, who secreted sexual abuse information on the rise of crazed pedophiles in a series of information laws to protect the rich minister of finance today, could have confidence as such? Since this systematic irresponsibility is clearly allowed to take on years after a year, apparently almost without exception, it sends messages in the community, of course, to address mistakes, to deal with such a crime. A message I hear echoes in the tone that the Samhera leaders send out in their society at this time. President. Earlier today, outside the Assembly Hall Hall, people who do not hear that new tone being proclaimed were standing here. On the other hand, there were people still calling for social reconciliation, the reconciliation that the government accepts that the nation has long called for. They call for an immediate office of sea economist that the Council legalizes a new and revised constitution adopted by the people and approved by national regulations, by the resource requirements adopted by voters, and by the use of the common resources of citizens, to build up society and to ensure a man - made standard of living. President. The groups making up Iceland's government today have had a lot of time to ensure that the nation's will for the induction of a new constitution has been taken, but they have all had the opportunity to do so. The forwarding party and the Independence Party chose to insert the constitution into a drawer when they accepted the board of directors in 2013. The left movement, in 2017, made up a government of these groups that have shown by their actions that they oppose the nation's demand for a new covenant of community. Sadly, more than that in 2020, the new constitution is accepted to remain in a drawer and to negotiate further between its individual regulations. Of course, this situation undermines the trust of the public, the constitutionr, the politics, the public, who is supposed to set the rules for us as lawmakers. So I cannot see that the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, worked wholeheartedly to strengthen the public's trust in politics. But I still listen, Mr. President, with open ears, open eyes, and hope in my heart that soon I will hear a new chord in this hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u87	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for this very fine speech, in which it came in particularly well into the importance of completing all the crash issues and learning from experience, doing better, and getting a new constitution. Hv. In his speech too, a member of the body was able to fit in with many other subjects. One thing like that. A senator spoke a lot about corruption and trust, both in the council and in the community. So, Mr. President, I'd like to think about it a little bit and hopefully get some answers from what it's about. A senator on how to do it. A senator sees that a new constitution can influence the factors. A senator entered his talk. How important is that? A senator that a new constitution will be established to address these issues, corruption, and trust in society?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u88	President. Thank you. A senator for a great question. I believe that the legalisation of the new constitution is an enormous step in promoting confidence in politics and in dealing with corruption. First, it would agree in itself that the nation is the chairman of the Constitution and that they cannot attend in a democratic state - in real life - that we have held a national fee that the nation participated in and found a conclusion ignored by the General Assembly. I can't see how it's to build confidence in us sitting here, that we ignore what those people are saying. That's perhaps the main part of this, that we've been made rules, they're already there, and here we ignore more part of the democratic results of the nation in a series of cases. For corruption or general confidence in this constitution, there is, for example, a source. It's the law to protect the informants. It contains a much clearer distribution of tasks and responsibilities to those who have caused it. There are also democracies, we can say, for the common people to act if they feel they are in a wrong position by the General. It is very strong that if the public sees unnatural interests taking action in the legal process, they will have something other than waiting four years for new elections to respond. It is a good defense against corruption, and it is also a very good way to build confidence in politics because if we know that we can immediately cope with the anxieties that come.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u89	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this fine answer. We stand as a nation in the face of countless major issues that I believe are of enormous importance that the nation has greater and larger opportunities to come. Indeed, I think a new constitution would open up on it, like a dog. A senator came on, but among the big things I missed a little bit. A senator would enter his speech earlier is climate issues. I think climates are a very good example of what all Icelanders, members of the United States, president - all of us must meet together and make decisions together on how we will contribute as a nation to deal with the global crisis of climate. That's why I'd like to ask. Senator anyway. A senator feels that we are taking a step to deal with today's climate problems, especially with what the existing government has been doing and with the goals established by the government. Counts 'em out. A senator that we walk far enough? In this context, I also ask: What steps are there? A senator important that we accept that direction? Is there any answers to a new constitution?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u90	A respectable president. As in so many times earlier, the exact answer is found in a constitution that has laws on nature, a law that is really important to us to receive as our constitution to protect nature. You're right about what you're doing. A senator that I did not mention this point in my speech. I should have, as it were, because in the climate and in the battles, especially children, we would respond properly to the climate crisis, which I will answer. A senator's failure to take steps to correct matters was also a heart - stirring expression of the shooting of the messenger. It may not appear directly in the government case this time, but we see by climate operator Greta Thunberg that it is rather attacked and demeaned for its struggle. We also hear that the Central Party uses this rhythm, which may have come from the Independence Party's political school, if it comes somewhere, to shoot the messenger. In this case it is said that children are somehow being intimidated by telling them the truth about the situation today, that they are being brought in some kind of hives. I don't know who's supposed to be behind it, but it's not the scientists that are informing us about the situation today, it's some evil power that's trying to scare children, and it's the messenger who's shot in that case. It's certainly important to mention this important point too, and I think we are. In many ways, a member of the body agrees on the measures to be taken, agreeing on a green community covenant that we made for the council. In view of the time, I allow myself to point out that there are very extensive measures that I would like to see us do better when it comes to climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u91	A respectable president. In recent years, over a decade, a community of Icelandic people has been characterized by much turmoil. First, it was the famous kindness that ended with a collapse and a difficult, challenging year of building. Icelanders have achieved remarkable success in recent years, so that most people would not have thought of such things when the dust settled after the collapse of a banking system. The public and business life took what was left over and started right away. Over the years, the labour agreement of the last year, the biographer agreement, stressed the job market's desire to balance. The election of elections above was an exposé of the political root. So it was one of the most important political tasks since the 2017 election to achieve a balance. The stronger government today made it its primary goal to promote the support of society that had been neglected. This has been done in most areas, whether by transportation, education, housing, health, climate, and so forth. This is the management of structure and balance, and with its approach to reasonable agreements, one result is that growth is historically low, and it is of great importance to the homes and businesses of the country. In politics, however, the task is never finished. In recent years, not only were we happy but we had an eight - year - old airline that had become an important link in Icelandic tourism. In recent years, we too had a deficiency of hairy skin. These were two major losses for Icelandic economy and, of course, the hardest for those who lost their jobs, but they also had a powerful influence in local communities. Not so many years ago, one such shock would have been enough to almost overthrow the economic system. But that did not happen now, and it clearly shows that the economy is strong, a government fund is powerful, and society is strong. As the events mentioned above showed the strength of society and the system, others were who exposed its weaknesses. The gale that raged on the northern part of the country in December exposed how little we can do about the environment and the weather as well as in January in the western avalanches. We simply have to focus more on our basic systems, and I especially want to mention the electrical system. At times, when things are going well and any external circumstances are going well, we may forget to make sure that we are living in a more difficult time. In the past few years, debates about electrical power have focused on the fact that enough has been activated, enough lines have been turned, and in many respects electricity is some form of unnecessary luxury. It's just that if the electricity is not solid, then there are other systems. In the wake of the storm, we found that people felt insecurity, not acceptable, that basic systems, such as electricity or communication systems, cannot be relied upon. The government responded immediately by appointing a special group of campaigns that have sought to hear all voices, hear all the stories, and suggestions of those affected by the storm. Then, from that information, we will make plans. Because of the balance of the government budget, we are equipped to make long, shorter plans, and important things: to make plans. Last year, the so - called Samherian language focused on the fishing road. Today, it is one of the most important services in society that we can be proud of as a nation. I allow myself to state that Icelandic fishing exports are in the world's front order in terms of the responsible and sustainable use of ocean resources. The basis for this responsible use is the eating system. One thing that has been done under the direction of the prime minister is to suggest a change to the republic's constitution. There, the resource law is one of the most important. It is strongly emphasized that the provision for resource use will be part of the Constitution to ensure the nation's ownership of marine and marine resources. But that's not enough. Although the peddle system has returned and given much money to the community, it is not perfect, rather than any of mankind's works. I'm sure no one originally has the idea of creating the system thought that then an enterprise and, in fact, a large part of the fishing rights of Icelanders would be in charge of so much of the fishing rights. However, we can fix a lot of things in the system without overthrowing it. The land is inhabited by many, and at times it is made up of some physical difference. As one nation, however, we need to focus on the needs of the whole body and respect different viewpoints. In times of distress, such as the fall of the avalanche in the West last week, we try to listen to the accounts of people's experiences. Listening gives us insight into situations that differ from our own. With that understanding in the family, we can better appreciate the need to expand the infrastructure throughout the country, to build safer roads, to ensure more efficient supply of energy, energy, equal costs and distribution, to provide access to education through new educations and intensive education policies, health services, and to support the development of employment life across the country. It also involves housing. All of this works the government already, but it can always be done better. Developing in Iceland has been that the southwest corner will always be stronger and stronger, more populous and populous. Now it's time for the corner that comes from the city of Selephoss, called the White River, to live about 84% of the population. In the vast majority of the country, only 16% live. This fact and the development behind it shows that despite all regional policies so far, public work has been the main source of public activity in the southwest corner. We need to reverse that trend. There are many who want to live and work in all parts of the country but who are not able to do so because of less employment opportunities and sometimes less public service in the country. There has also been a lack of housing. Therefore, it is so important that the minister of housing, the social and child - care minister, is making an opportunity there. We can see that we are already taking action to build up in many places so that people who want to move there will be able to do so. Part of developing stronger settlements is to strengthen the level of rural government and promote with larger administrative modules that can provide better service. Sustainable and strong rural communities are also an important part of distributing the authority over the land, from the State to the rural areas, and thus from the inhabitants. The political assignments are many, and they are important. The advance team will work closely on the progress of the government, with the aim of ensuring balance and trust in Icelandic society. And it's a pleasure to see that, because we often compare ourselves with the North countries, the government that sits in Iceland is the most secure one that has ever lived in the north.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u92	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for excellent passage. Of course, what is my main concern now is the circumstances of small settlements, most of which are very palaces, including because of the direct intervention of the Lawgiver or because of the laxness of the government and the laxness of the law. We are now looking up at the situation in Florence, a small community that has died not only on the whip of nature but also on the whips of the system. The fishing system comes to mind first. Society has been robbed of its benefits to get natural rocks and a job life is shattered. True, a building agency came to support, handing out special local settlements with earmarks that were clearly marked for the difficult situation there. But it is true that the settlement is at the head of a Southern fishing project. Ice cold splashing the face of the Flat Tribals once more. A respectable president. So, what's to play this community crying for? Do you need further witnesses? Is this not an illustration of the ignorance of this system as the highest level? However, did a minister scream in his speech? [[The president calls.]] Will Flatters have to get this conclusion, this administration? It's under the roof. This local secretary of law is really okay? Is he willing to lie down on the rivers and change this system, meet the Flatters, either by means of a routine or by a global change system? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u93	A respectable president. I'll share my concerns with you. Senator. I made it clear in my speech that the weaker communities in Iceland are too weak and nature and the weather over the last six weeks has exposed the weaknesses we have to deal with, and I think we have a chance to do so. We simply need to set priorities for more money and more of our energy and mind, and we need to monitor more closely by building our systems around the country better. When it comes to the business, and here was a special committee, my attention was drawn to the fact that this case was being discussed by a graffiti, the specific local chef, whom I thought was very peculiar. So I asked for a building agency to take a special look at this route. It was done. Unfortunately, the conclusion turned out to be that they adhered to the idea of bringing this specific settlement to the next community, which is certainly in the same rural society, but they build another type of activity in Flatland. I will simply say to those people and tell them when I meet them in the West, that if the management department has failed in these matters, it will be charged, if possible, as advice. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course, I can't have direct access to it. The project is based on the Agency's study and the Agency's management decided on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u94	A respectable president. It is proper to note that there is no pool on the Flamards. We were aware of that, those of us who went west with the townspeople for a while, as we observed the first steps. Of course, they have been shocked to learn that the park did not fully hold back, and the people's attitude toward living on the spot may have changed to some extent. Trust has failed. It's our job to build it up. The town wants answers. What will the government do? Such conditions need to be clearly entered by the government, and this must be done quickly. If not under such circumstances, when should governments intervene? They're gone. He was sent away safely for pure profit. The locals continued surging in this impossible fishing system, which ministers are now impressed with. The commercial devices all alone were torn down in the avalanche, and the inhabitants are uncertain. [[The president calls.]] Thus, government reactions need to be swift. What will they be, and when will they come to earth? [[The president calls.]] It is important that we create a stable, stable job, and a sure prospect for the future and create faith on this foundation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u95	V.E.G. President. I simply want to agree with what. paritaprevir The Goddess of Brjánsson. I felt the same enthusiasm and failure of the people of Flattuus when we visited them, the point of the government parties. We agree on that, and I will put it to work, and we will support the people from the West to do what has to be done. But I can't set up some patent solution right here, right now. We need to have that conversation with the people west, with the local government, with the people of the Flatune community, and find the right way to do it. I assure you that the government is prepared to do what is wise to do to correct things that have gone wrong in confidence, security, and a vision for the future. The people there want to live there, and we saw them so well, including the young people who have been there, students at the People's School. He's important too.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u96	A respectable president. Now, the environment is quite large and extensive, and in the administration of the government, the aim is to establish a national park in the central highlands in the consultation of cross-cutting members, the Environment and Resource Ministry, rural society, nature protection and outdoor organizations and other stakeholders. A report by the President's permission states: A Sigurður Ingi said that the agreement was good, but he established some conditions before it was accepted that a high-land national park should enter the government covenant. He doesn't want to answer whether he supports national parks in the highlands... My question to the highest. A minister is very simple: What conditions were these, and why can a minister not answer whether he supports a national park in the highlands compared with what the government covenant says?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u97	A respectable president. The government covenant tells us that we will work to establish a national park in the middle of the country. That's what we're doing for a living, just as I came in. In the beginning, I said that four conditions would have to be fulfilled on my part. First, rural society had direct access to this group. This was done, but for some reason the conversation has developed in the direction that the communities, especially those close to the highlands, are inferred or suggested that they make more use of themselves and take care of this. So despite that condition, some conversation has not been reached. Second, the administrative arrangement will be at least as it is in a lakeland park. I've understood the signs so that they do. Still, there is considerable suspicion that it is rotten. Third, the routes used internationally, i.e. Seven classes and four tops are parks, will be used to class the country, both three and four that we don't have the experience of using in Iceland in National Park, we've put 95% of the Lake Earth park in two. Fourth, and most important, regarding such a large project, which involves so many people, a national park in the middle of Iceland, 32◯33%, national park of all Iceland, will not become the national park of all Iceland until the majority of Icelanders experience it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u98	A respectable president. That's exactly what caught my attention. A minister could not claim to support the idea of national parks in the highlands, in the case of the government covenant, just those direct words I was trying to draw out from where I came from. Very little, too big, as is a matter of perpendition. There is nothing about them in the transport programme that is now being discussed by the Environment and Transport Committee. There are a number of PPP projects, but not the charges in the capital contract. I was wondering when the bills for the case will be presented because I believe it is absolutely irresponsible that they will be held late during the current council if it is planned for the current council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u99	Madam President. There was never my word in a conversation with the press, and it's just why. A senator who makes it clear that I was not ready to declare support to the park. This is the work of the Mosaic Law covenant. We're working on it. All I've said is that these are now the words of consultation, and we need to be careful about them. There are negative comments coming from my rural communities, and as Minister of Ministers, I feel that I am obliged to point out that even though they were involved in this group, it did not end well enough, at least that there is not a common understanding of that conclusion. So it's just the mediaman who decides I haven't said anything like that. But let us continue that work. As I mentioned in a talk, we progressives will faithfully work to enforce the laws of the government and the ways in which they live. But we also need to listen to people, just as we have said we would do in other parts of the country and in other assignments. In terms of the charges, I'm going to answer it this way: A protocol program is on its own. The PPP is on its way. There will be paybacks, as was the case in the Haggard tunnel, and there will be other programs only in the capital area. [[The president calls.]] Like what? A senator is likely aware of the tax that may be presented as a financial prime minister when necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u100	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for an excellent speech and plan to enter the Minister after the Congress resolution on a frame plan as well as on the central highland park. Now these two cases have been in consultation and are entering the council as planned in February. The minister said in the news yesterday that he wanted to listen to a group member in this matter. In response to the Minister of the past, it was one of his criteria to accept this bill into the council that rural society was not against the matter. But now it's obvious they're completely against each other. It shows itself at meetings held in the Southland. Is the minister satisfied that the minister of the environment has brought the matter this far if the details are not included that he listed earlier that he had made conditions about this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u101	A respectable president. So that people can understand this right now: One of the reasons I said that we would have to be on our way to work at the central highland park - it could be called conditions or conditions - was that our rural communities would be part of this group, not just a parapolitian group of members, but that they would also be part of that group. It was done, two delegates were there. I would like to simply say: Although the process has gone perfectly normal and worked well, in the field and this was introduced several times in various parts of the country, I have noticed that in the last few months, especially in the South, in the ideal week when we meet the rural governments of that area, but also in other terms, such as the northwest, some of the northest, I have developed opposition to the ideas that have developed, which are in my consultations, that they cannot accept them. They offer either more work, more conversation, or say that these ideas are not working. No one has fully opposed it, at least I do not think it will be a center of land. [[The president calls.]] But we need to be careful about our work and listen to the people. [[The president calls.]] These conclusions come from the rural communities, especially those closest to the central highlands themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u102	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the Minister for these answers. I can agree that, however it may be, a central national park or a national park must work very well before it is approved. I'm concerned about the delivery security of electrical energy in this connection and activation options, and that's why I would have chosen it, and perhaps I'd ask the minister about it, that the framework plan for utilisation would have been first passed through the council before a central national park was taken care of. As time is short, I just want to ask the minister: "Is the Minister likely to be approved at this spring meeting before a summer break?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u103	A respectable president. This has been a blow in the winter, perhaps even in the past winter, when there is a misunderstanding or a frequent interpretation of what it is about to put work into government consultations. This, of course, is a means to get a response and a review. If they are very negative, in isolated cases it has simply been taken back and not seen or happened later or the most frequent, that they change. There has been no bill yet to be submitted, whether in the government or before the council. This theme that the Environment Minister's bill is in consultation, ends today, and I urge all those who want to send in envelopes to do so at the latest today, I think it's the last day. Of course, the Environment Minister and the Ministry take reviews and comments, and this may result in a change in the subject in order to try to make further peace. I agree with what. Senator, I think it's so important that we make as much peace as possible. [[The president calls.]] Of course, when we finish that work depends on how wide the peace will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u104	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of the speech, but I didn't notice, and I don't know if he's involved in any of the issues that the leading party has on their tables, in the case of the elderly, and indecision. In the previous discussion with the minister of finance, he claimed that there could never be any help. I'd like to know if there was a discussion within the government about who wasn't supposed to help, whether they were the worst or the second person, or who this group was that could never be helped, if anything was discussed. It is a serious matter that the minister of finance has been declared that no one can be helped by a particular group, and I think it's kind of scary that it has been presented here in a public chair. It should also be required that we know who are not entitled to help.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u105	A respectable president. Now I was so lucky to be here in the audience when it was time. A senator had a word with a minister of finance. I just can't get them all wrong and wrong. A senator carries and says that the minister of finance has said so. Of course, no such discussion has taken place in the government. We are always, all political people, trying to improve society. What is one of the things we're doing with our community? In case of a moment. A senator would read the Treaty and look at the work we have been doing, and we are equal to the opportunity. We're putting our arms around the little ones that haven't. We've been changing the tax system. We've been changing the improvement system, and we've been making this conversation with disability, and we've achieved considerable success among the elderly, the income story tells the true story. Please, Madam President, what? A senator is to handle the matter correctly and not restore it to the people and the government that it is not helping all of the people she needs to help. She works hard every day.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u106	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The answer to that question may only be clear and direct: Why, on the other hand, have the poor and the elderly not been given living contracts? Why are microists and the elderly the only group that has not been corrected? If it's so simple, if you're doing this, then you must also be able to say, "Why haven't they got a biographer contract? " Why have they not been corrected, and when should they be treated? There must be a firm arrangement for this unless it is arranged and arranged so that it is written in the covenant that this group should not be corrected and should have only a fraction of the increases that others have received. It is best that during the New Year's Eve, just a few days ago, older civilians were getting the rights of about 3% at the same time as the pay raise by 7%. I'm waiting for the highest. A minister to explain this to me: Why on earth are these groups usually given half as many as everyone else?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u107	A respectable president. Hv. A senator well knows that when he gives these talks that nothing has been done for the elderly and the desperate is wrong. A few years ago, we changed the system for the elderly, which resulted in a marked increase in their power gain over the majority of people in the community. Today, the government in relation to biographies has done much, including changing the tax system, which is the best and most beneficial thing that the least earns, including both groups that are affected. A senator refers to him. We've had a long, long conversation with the desperate officers, and I really hope that we can complete that conversation, get into a system change similar to what we did with the elderly a few years ago so that we've come to the same place with both of these groups. Hv. A senator well knows that this is the way it is, and he can't come up the day in and day in and he can't say that we're not doing exactly what we're doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u108	Madam President. It is fun to begin the Senate debates ahead, and perhaps a little work done on the work of this government so far, and the challenges ahead. This conversation is often very dark-white. It is either hopeless or wonderful depending on the speaker or the speaker. Never, though, have there been many things that have been done in the history of this government, although many other things have gone wrong. We'll see, for example. increase in health costs, prolongation of birthalorfs, decrease of income tax on individuals, all the fine examples of the best cases, and came to some good agreement here at the council Hall to finish, as they reflected a broad solidarity in the council, while at the same time promoting that this government is, of course, the lowest member of the council. Since it represents the issues that most of us may not be able to sign, but it leaves out all the issues that have been disputed over here for decades, even for decades. If we talk about the resource business, the fishing operation, as well as the way we obtain in the marine and other resource sectors, the procedures and management of agriculture, the discussion of the Constitution, and so on, not to mention the discussion of European cooperation and the currency. Indeed, it is interesting to examine the work of this government at this point, since it is now the ideal period over half, and as we will, the big announcements were not saved. This government was to assign historical agreements to different categories, plan to put a new tone in politics, proclaimed new tactics at a council, and intended to monopolize into the key projects that would get Iceland in the highest order, it was blown up. Much emphasis was placed on economic and social stability, and I found it quite interesting to listen to the highest degree. The secretary of finance earlier in this discussion today asks himself, " Might Icelanders be able to deal with this stability? ' I wondered, " What stability is it that's at the top? ' A financial minister is talking about when unemployment has doubled in one year, economic growth has disappeared, and, in fact, in a recession, with economic representatives at the beginning of this year, it seems that there is not much optimism. If it is the stability of the secretary of finance that there is a deterioration in the economy, surely I hope that we as a nation will never accept that stability. It's not a good stability. The fact is that now we are entering the latter part of the term, and in many respects the government should be reaping on the basis of good works in the first half of the season, it would have been in the interest of what should come in the second, so the government could well be seen in elections. But then we will see that it really is the opposite. This government was repeatedly warned that its economic foundations in its early financial development were far too optimistic. On that warning there was no listening, however, trumpets and expenses were sounded for the mass business of the State, but there was no room left for public investments. Now that we are truly dealing with a more difficult time in the economy, that is exactly the point: Public investments are lacking. As we look at the picture at the beginning of the year, we may find that economic conditions will become weaker than expected in the budget and financial laws of this government for 2020, and the government will have to deal with the economic reality in a new financial program that she needs to submit to in spring Congress. Perhaps it is of interest in political discussions and political context here as the latter part of this terms goes by, in many respects, this government has been on the throne of peace so far. Under the cover of the effort to bite and burn in the government's affairs, all the stewards could be given what they wished for infringement and all the difficult cases of the government in which they were going to attack were kept for later. Let's talk about the central nation park, which is obviously becoming a problem for this government. In fact, we don't have to discuss the fishing regime, that was one of the first cases the government allowed to reduce the fishing costs, and so it was taken care of. But there are a lot of the differences that we have here in the latter part of the term, just as we are dealing with economic recession. That may be what is right now. We need huge investments from the government. Although there is a slight increase in investments, it is still a long - term average. The only thing that made investments over the long term average at the last measurement was that we took over the Whale Land tunnel. It wasn't a new investor, it was simply a book transfer to the state funds. The fact is, when we watch investments in necessary infrastructures, whether it is the electrical energy system, road construction, the land hospital that is being reduced from moderate to moderate, or the building of nurses causing the great flow problem in the Land Hospital, there is no need for any new investment on the behalf of the government there. We're in use, hopefully, 100 spaces this spring moon on Plain Road, an investment that began in the last government. Where are the projects that the government proclaimed in that regard? This morning at a meeting of legal committees, it was time to introduce to them when they might be expecting the first ones. We can expect them to be available next year, which means that we will have to wait another two or three years after they are taken in use. The problem of the Land Hospital, with the boring name efflux problem, will only increase over the next two to three years in the administration of this government. When economic pressures are so good if we have room to reduce the budget of the job life in order to create jobs. It seems that the policy of this government is to stimulate the economy by increasing the number of public employees at the same time that the private sector is bleeding, there is no other way to say it. Private sector has decreased by 6,000 jobs over the last year, including because of the heavy pressure, the tax burden of today's commercial situation. There is a significant amount of insurance that needs to be dropped, and we can ask ourselves, " Is it wise to tax jobs in such a great way that we do here at the same time as jobs compete with technological changes? ' Such a course makes no sense. We need to cut down the tax system in terms of laws on the job and just lift this huge taxation on the job, because with the much taxation, we are simply reducing our jobs. We will not solve it just by increasing the number of public employees. We need to stimulate an investment in the economy so that professional life can build up, take back its weapons, and increase the number of jobs here on the entire economy, not just from the public. Sadly, though, the government is tempted, so to speak, to lift up boots, to increase only public employees, but at the same time to see the economic situation that it is bleeding jobs, especially knowledge jobs. Let's talk about the state of software and technology, which the government always speaks so damn quickly about being our most important structure, caring for the work of knowledge, since there is the future. The number of jobs in the past few years has decreased, and as we review a recent visual scan published last week by technology and sceptres it is found that only one fifth of them consider good conditions for managing international knowledge companies in Iceland. Only 5% of them consider the Icelandic crown to be useful in their operations. 75% of these companies say that a dollar has either a very or a serious impact on the business. That's what I said. Prime Minister for some old manure around the Icelandic crown. This is simply the economic reality faced by knowledge companies, and when the knowledge companies are trying to tell the government about their problems, it is an old economic mess. No, Mr. President, despite the fact that the current government in the first part of the season has put a questionable Iceland record into an expansion in just two years, the prospects are dark in the economy and serious challenges I think will be very difficult for this government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In fact, we can see that as early as this year's beginning, this government community seems to be considerably lower than the previous two years, and I think that this situation will only get worse when that election period passes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u109	President wants less of it. Councilmen are to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u110	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. She was a little complimentary about how good the government was, and all could agree with everything it would have done. It's good and blessed that men have begun to look at this fair eye. But, hey. In the past few years, since the government took over, a senator has criticized a large increase in government expenses. It has increased by 116 billion in the budget, which is about 16%. I'd like to hear from you. A member of the health - care network has had a 34 billion - billion - a - year - old health - care business, with the potential of a brother in the medical system, which has been involved in building a large number of problems, such as health care and transportation, and a number of other things. Where do you see it? A senator that, if it is available to do so, can be cut down, as has been the case with restoration for the past two years? Where do men want to cut down? Transport, health, infrastructure? Where do men want to cut down? Hv. A senator said that we were just raising the number of public jobs and that nothing was being done for the private sector, but all the funds that have gone up to the public budget have, of course, been useful to people in general business. They have also enjoyed these funds by carrying out assignments that have been offered, both within the medical system and on road projects and on other structure. It's not just government employees walking around here with hammers and saws.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u111	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. Because of what? A senator here brings up my praise for the work of this government. Apparently, a senator stopped listening after my first minute. [[Up front.]] It is true that something has been done correctly; otherwise, it would be in all this expansion. But it is true, I have criticized how the expansion has been done, especially, but, of course, that it is all too much and does not last for the long economic reasons for the state's financial affairs. It's always getting better and better in the day. It's getting a lot worse. Despite the fact that 2019 C.E. was a very good year in historical context, the treasure has already reached its limit. First of all, it is all too small a public investment. This means that there is not enough work now that you slow down. We would have had to deal with a considerable amount of public activity right away last year in order to face the obvious coldness, e.g. In the building sector and in the same way as we see it in a tourism service that went through a great recession last year, and this year will at best be a continuing adjustment. Although there is no predictions of intense contractions, there are no predictions of growth. They need something to stimulate the economy. They don't have a job in this government. In terms of increased medical expenses, the problem is immediate. A member of the body of elders said that there has been an increase in expenses for the public health system. In fact, they have been more relative to the health of the health department than to the number of other problems, so there is enough to be taken if a government - run tool should be sought. The question, though, is also: What has been the result of this medical expansion? The number of jobs in this government has decreased by one fifth. The list of requests is just as long as there is no solution to the major problem of many years talking about nursing. That's the core of the flow problem of the Land Hospital. [[The president calls.]] There's nothing to be done about it, and there's nothing on this government's horizon for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u112	A respectable president. It's interesting to hear that. A senator could not mention anything that could be cut down. It's good to know. Of course, people are often talking about something that is not the basis for, when there is nothing to be said to be released and taken care of in these matters. They've gone for something, these 116 billion for increased expenses. When 34 billion enter the Land Hospital and Health Organizations as well as other health institutions, they say themselves that the health - care system is growing immensely. They are canceling the expenses for the elderly and disability, extending the birthworm, and reducing pay on dental costs for the elderly and the desperate, and this is how you might continue to count. All of these are upbuilding things in the process of strengthening the health system and building a new hospital. Let us not forget that a whole airline went under last year. There must be something touching the economy. But we're on our way back up again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u113	Madam President. Thank you. A senator responds to his second. My criticism is that the highest measure of the government's success is how much it has been successful in raising expenses and not how it has improved its services. That's what I said last year. In the last two years, surgeon - general health procedures above statistics have decreased by about one fifth. Is that a success? No, it's a catharsis. A senator, after his medical expenses have increased as much as he has seen. What is happening in the health - care system when there is a large increase in expenses but the number of operations? It's called out of control. It's not a measure of success that's known to me. It just says the same thing that always applies to management: you don't measure results by spending. There are many ways to improve the health benefits of the health system - and now I'm not saying it had to be done; we've all agreed to put health matters first. But there is a serious concern when a government succeeds in adding as much expenses to health care and providing less living as it did. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u114	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. I believe that the Samherjam documents are not only a sentence against the Samhera owners but also of the fishing and government systems that enabled them to make such a shameful use of a successful position. The documents, however, are not a scruple of the company's general employees, who are up - to - date with honest people who are responsible for their work. Samherji is one of the largest firms in the country and manages a large part of our fishing resources, a company that most Icelands trusted in. But with the Samherjam documents, it failed, and there was an added lack of confidence at the highest level. The High Priest, who in the past was the chairman of the Samherja government. Above that, there was a lack of faith in a premeditation authority that refused to add additional funds to the investigation of the matter to the payment of budgets. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he would agree that the government's reaction to the Samherja papers was weak and not likely to increase political trust, which is a constant reduction. And also each. A senator does not consider this to be the case, as is the case with so many other members of the community, calling for a change in fishing management.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u115	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, I have to say the word. Senator. Of course, the Union case was a devastating blow to Icelandic society. The fact that an Icelandic company - if it is true, we need to be aware that the case is not fully researched or that it has failed, but the evidence presented in the Samaritan documents is very strong, there is nothing else - it is not clear that the behavior in which it is discussed, you would have simply never believed. Of course, what the matter reveals also, which I cannot help but agree with. In fact, on the day that Samherji was prepared to pay double the price of annual rent on resources in Namibia, the company has paid for untimely fishing permits in this country. It has always been held that long - term water supply would be a key factor and either non-term fishing sources are now or, for the very long time, for which it would be prepared to pay the highest possible price. The day came when one of the country's largest fishing companies was prepared to pay double the price of Namiba for annual rent on theturium, compared to non-term fishing warrants in this country. This, of course, is a scandal, reflecting that this is not the source of criticism for builders on the ideas of long - term discharges on fishing grounds, just as we have been in rejuvening and the Conspiracy have spoken for a long time. It is long time to adopt this arrangement, this part of the fishing system; although the eating system has yielded many good results in marine espionage and sustainable use of the resource, it is quite clear that the sector is not paying the cost to the people to whom it is ready to do so, as it showed in Namibia. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u116	Madam President. Depravity, greed, and bribes, tax gains, money frauds, and tax evasion give evidence of Samherja's trade in Namibia. Paying bribes is a matter of prison under Icelandic penalties, and it doesn't matter where the bribe is at home. But just like what's-his-face. A senator pointed out, will examine the matter, and the consequences will be revealed. But I think in most civilized states, the demand for a quick investigation would have been louder than here and a demand for measures against business corruption as well. In particular, the requirement for resource requirements in a constitution, a resource directive that keeps water, as expected by the administration board's proposal, would have been louder. These are not loud demands here, though they may have been heard. I want to ask you why. A senator: How would he have preferred the highest order? The government would have handled all these matters when the Samherja papers came in?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u117	Madam President. It would have been a good first step that the government had settled over the resource budget and asked itself why it was so difficult for the sea route to pay this much higher rent on very temporary fishing grounds, just for one year, at the same time as this industry repeatedly announces that there are all too many restrictions in the fishing fees on the local article. Of course, that is unfortunate. Of course, one of the main priorities of this government was to reduce the fishing costs, even though we have watched a better source and rising prices and crosswords that this year's Icelandic fishing road will probably have a record of marine products abroad than paying the lowest fishing fees we've ever seen. It would have been a pleasure for the government to start by considering if it was a fair system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u118	A respectable president. I want to thank a senator for his speech. The thing that struck me in his speech was the debate about a company, that 75% of them wanted to pick up a foreign currency but 5% were back, or wanted to hold on to the crown, if I understood it correctly, the senator would correct me. What I would like to ask is if he believes it and is saying that the only way for this company is to enter the European Union and if he thinks it is advisable to do so today. I now believe the European Union is a bit of a burning battle in which the British have fled. And if not, whether he is discussing the possibility of taking up another currency and what currency. The other thing I'm also worried about is that while it's good for a company to pick up another currency, it may be either good for the public. I am, for example. absolutely certain that much of the public does not want to enter the European Union. Consequently, the euro is not on the table. I'm wondering what solutions he sees in this matter. Then, too, regarding the business, whether or not he agrees that it is unnatural, as is built up today, for both seniors and disability, that they are being beaten, not to work, cutting them for working. The more people can work and pay taxes, the more they must be able to do it than prevent people, especially disability, who can and who want to win some smart one. The question is, What is his opinion?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u119	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. The short answer is: Yes. I think it's best that we switch currency by recording euro through involvement in the European Union. A simple reason is that we are, in most of the EU, already in the first place. This is our domestic market, through the EEA Convention, where the majority of our foreign trades are today. It would be of great importance to an Icelandic export company to obtain a currency for which they want to do business. This would also be of immense importance to the public. We are watching an all - out interest level in euro over Icelandic dollars, even though interest has dropped here on land. We must ask ourselves such simple questions as: " How is it that twice as often as in neighboring lands, we are having a roof over our heads? How is it that people in the burning house of which the European Union is so frequently described by opposers simply have much better? Especially in middle age and where people have fallen into debt because of long - term low interest levels, and much lower than we are used to, for example. Food prices are much lower than in this country. Food and housing, these two basic needs and the needs of all families, all individuals, are far more beneficial and costly than anything we have ever experienced. And is this some vision that European opposers resent? That the public could afford to own their house? That there wouldn't be such a high price to eat and do in this country? The Icelandic family pays tens of thousands of dollars each month to a higher food prices than does the rest of the North countries, which are more and less, except for Norway, in the European Union. Yeah, I think this is our best option and I'd give us a much better position than we live today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u120	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. Yes, in many ways I agree that it is possible to have it better. But there are also faults. We must not forget our faults. There's a huge number of young people out of work in the Europeans, there's a lot more unemployment there than there is here. It's just a serious matter. And we are also a small nation. I can't see how we as a small nation should have anything to say or say or say anything inside this huge-baloney. I'm afraid we wouldn't get anything out of such a cohesion but a curse. I believe they would bring on us the enormous unemployment in there. But there are advantages for some, but not all of them. I would think it would be far better to try in this context to pick up another currency than to walk in the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u121	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists a second time. This is another swamp about the burning house of Europe, far more unemployment than in this country. For one thing, unemployment levels in the European Union are like those in most parts of the world. However, it can be noted that for years unemployment has been falling in the European Union. It hasn't really been lower for a long time, but it is now. Just to illustrate a simple example, Germany's unemployment is 3.1%. We have 4.3% unemployment here. Is this the cause of the euro's extreme weight? I don't think so. I think the Germans have been strengthening their competitiveness with Euros for years, and less unemployment shows the best results. It is a far lower unemployment than it has been in that country for a long time and it is with Euro, the European Union. So I have no doubt that the European Union is very suitable for Iceland's interests and especially for young people in this country who are going to get a roof over their heads and then can avoid this high food prices that our generations have had to grow up with.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u122	A respectable president. Years after, decades from now, there have been groups in Iceland who have promised that the time had come to improve their worst interests in this country, older citizens, and desperate people. Unfortunately, the gap has always improved. The gap has grown to such an extent that there is more than 30% left on the disability scale just to stand on a plain. It's the 23rd for the people to secure 300,000 bucks. Minimum social security improvement was rejected by year by year. In addition, the government's challenge to increase the pension of social security in accordance with the rise in biographies. And what does this tell us? It was claimed from this platform earlier that I had said that nothing had been done for older citizens and that nothing had been done for disability. That's wrong. I said they didn't get exactly what everyone else did. It's a different arm. I also pointed out in the context that at the end of the New Year, they received only a little more than half of the pay raise. So there have been things that have been done, and I also want to state, and I've noted in the past that I thank this government for that, she saw to it that tax drug strength and all kinds of strength were stopped. The worst thing that had ever happened in the years was that taxes were strengthened and then diminished. An individual with a single simple concentration receives 5,000 and 15,000 bucks per month. 550,000,550,000 a.m. That come in your pocket every year. Previously, not only that amount would have been taken but also much more because it depends on the degree of impairment. People were being strengthened by a good religion that they gave evidence of improved systems, but then they made some of them worse than they were before. You're welcome. And I thank you again. They took up our group's bill to change it, and it was approved by a accordion. We must also realize that the damage is maintained in the social security system. A centenarian has been partially removed. A cent has been received in return by older men, who are in over a dollar by 65 dollars. It is now beginning to occur in the third year that the government has received tens of billions by betraying the disability to act quickly. Of course, it is a disaster that has not long been made to ensure that, as promised by all classes, those in this affected group will receive this correction. We must not forget that. Every class, every last election, promised to take it out. All the cases involving disabled people and microenergy pensioners are largely starving. Well, it's been given, but it hasn't been given correctly. It has been given half, sometimes less, sometimes a little more, but it has not been fairly administered so that this group receive exactly what others received, e.g. in the biographies agreements. If it had been left for micromasks, they might have got 20,000 bucks. an increase in time, but it was only changed to percent, and it brought back only a fracture. What's pathetic about this is what's being said about how you can live on average. Nobody lives on average. It's just impossible. We can only take, for example, the average wage in Iceland a year, half of it is under 400,000. and the other half is just over 400,000 bucks. But the average pay in Iceland is over 700,000 bucks. It tells us that there's a bigger group that's good for it and always bigger and bigger group that's got it. It also tells us that it sucks to think that the largest group lives on about $25,000. down payment. Poor people in themselves are a problem in Iceland for a government by the government. The people line up after dinner, and some people don't even have Christmas dinner, let alone have food throughout the year. The underpayers don't have that much good. We have to figure out that if you like. We wouldn't be doing our job here at the General Assembly, so we wouldn't be doing our job. We all need one another. Here, too, some women's group is remembered, and since they are at the lowest wage, they get the worst pension and suffer the greatest damage. I'm asking, "Where's equal? Is it our message in society that women are only worse and should be worse? We always say that we want equality, but we don't show it by our actions. The health system? It is frightening to think that if you are in danger of death and need to go to an emergency, you may be in even greater danger, even to the point of death, that once you graduate, you will not survive, as you have seen. We're not supposed to have a system like this. Such a system is obliging us to change and act immediately. It's a little strange in this context to waiting, as we've seen, to stand sort of in place or even to get longer. It's the scariest experience I've ever had... hanging on a waiting list and waiting for an operation. No one should have to wait for more than three months. Another is wickedness. Otherwise, people are being harmed. We have to start understanding this, and it sucks to think that we would rather give people unlimited aspirin and all kinds of narcotics that are addictive than giving them a chance to get a cure. In many respects, the interiors of the country are decaying. Lines were torn in the storm, and the surface treasure is crammed, while avalanches cause major damage. Snow flood. When I hear of the avalanche in Flatty, for personal reasons, because of the avalanche in Susavík, I get chills all over my spine. We must not forget what is so important and have not been given enough consideration: Our town was saved by the snowstorms. If we look at these two floods and how they went, I'll just say, "Guð will help us if the avalanches hadn't been there. " True, something went over them, but we can imagine what would have happened if they had not been there. Another thing that made me feel lucky: If an avalanche had fallen hours later, people would have been aboard the boats. That would have been an enormous loss of life. This tells us that we have to think things over again and make sure that these hardy people who try to live in these situations want to live under these circumstances - we have a responsibility to see that they can live there and that we too are under obligation to make sure that they can live in the quality around them, fishing. We could, for example. free hand-fishing, free beach fishing. We have to do something to save these settlements. We are under obligation to do so, and we are to make sure that those who want to live in those places can live without fear and support themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u123	Madam President. Hv. A senator is a zealous fighter against poverty, and I especially want to commend him for continuing that fight. I'm wondering about poor society. Hv. A senator named it. In view of the fact that Iceland is about The tenth richest country in the world is the poverty that is a fact here on land scandal. Everyone agrees on that in this room. Before Christmas it was reported that Iceland's Red Cross runs a special fund called a very poor fund. I'd like to ask people to think about this, a poor fund in the tenth richest country in the world. In this rich society, some 6,000 children now live in poverty. 70% of the population has to live under 300,000 dollars. The European Commission gave a review of the latest budget of this government. Here's a direct quote where the Corporate Community says itself, Madam President: ▪ All case groups dealing with disabled people and micro-organists are starving... Every group of paintings is starving. This is what the Institute of Destiny says about the latest budget of this government. This is taking place on the watch of the greens, the forwards and the Independence Party, and on top of these reports is now that about 8,000 people are out of work, and since that government, their percentage has doubled. This number of unemployed people is more than all the population in the West. So I want to ask you why. A senator in this context, and I know that he agrees with me: What means he really thinks he's the best person to fight this terrible poverty that far too many in this rich society are living but should not need it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u124	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I would like to reiterate that a group of people was established in order to fight the poverty of children. Rather, two or three years ago the prime minister said that poor people could no longer wait. But it's still waiting. What can be done? I have, for example. It's very strange, and you must be surprised to learn that 200 billion can be lost at least from an apartment loan fund. It's just a shrug, it's not doing anything, it's not doing anything. Money that would have worked hard for poor people for many years and that would have brought them out of poverty. The same time we in Floki's people have noted that we have an obligation, to make sure that everyone can have it good in Iceland, to tax deposit in a pension fund. We need to realize that there are over 5,000 billion in pensions. There are also another thousand billion tax revenues that are currently on the market. Is it supposed to be so cool that there's no money to eliminate poverty and there'll be no way to help everyone? It's just wrong. There's plenty of money to go, all you have to do is put the money in place, pick them up, and put them there. We're here talking about the money the people of the country have in these funds, the pensions. It's a tax bill that gets paid anyway. We are under obligation to make sure that this money is used immediately so that people, older citizens, do not have to come out of hospital, walk to the refrigerator, and perhaps look at half a bottle of light, and perhaps the only food available to maltdos. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u125	Madam President. Yeah, there's a lot I can say about it. A senator and since he specifically mentions the tax issue, I agree with him in that there is truly money here, but here he is making political decisions in this room that favors the most important group. Keep in mind that fishing costs have dropped by half in this government's work period, they were three times higher when they were at the highest level. I'm fully aware that they're swinging after delivery, and so on. However, it is a political decision that is taken here to have the low price of fishing that they do not even cover the cost of government service to the public. It is also a political decision to have the lowest capital tax in all the North countries. It is a political decision to reduce bank taxes, genetic taxes, and to provide a specific bill that should be put down on large ships here. When it comes to paying taxes, we see again and again what interests will be involved, such as the case. A senator mentions. I'm a little worried about this inequities, and I want to put it in context with poverty. I consider this to be perfectly inhuman facts: 6,000 children of poor, 70% poor under 300,000 k. At the same time, it is reported that one developer walked out of his company with 22,000 million. At the same time, another developer personally gained more than what the entire nation receives at hunting cost. At the same time, this government places a special requirement for school, nursing homes, and hospitals. [[The president calls.]] This is incredible politics, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u126	A respectable president. Thank you. The answer to this question is, I agree with it. There's the nail on his head. The developer who carried out these huge sums, high-payers, who get this huge amount. This is what they call mean. Because, on average, all these men must have it so good. They say, " No, you can't help everyone. ' But then these people must explain who should not help. There is a requirement for identifying who is not to be helped so that these people will know right away that they are not supposed to help them, so they can just accept that they are supposed to let death out of a shell and they are not going to get help. Then the taxes. Why couldn't all the tax elevations that came directly into their pockets be put in the lowest paid, those at the lowest wage and paid? Why do high - stakers need personal discounts? There is plenty of money that can be taken care of. I say for my part that I now had no need for these tax reductions, but I needed them four years ago, just like everyone else who was in my position. It is the injustice that goes along with it. What an extraordinary injustice it is when a person enters the public speaker and is accused of mistaken emphasis on the affairs of these people! I don't have the wrong emphasis. I've been living in this system, and I know how this system is from A to O. I'm in Survival. I know these people are out there, and they're just blowing. We're sending people to luncheons. In 2020, Iceland, we send a lot of people to luncheons. If it doesn't get in line, then just go hungry at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u127	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's talk, a lot of things I can agree with. I couldn't answer it. An antiquated senator on the disability pension and my views there. I just wanted to take advantage of my situation here and answer that question. I feel that it is absolutely necessary to reduce the amount of revenue that is in the system today and that there is a much greater incentive for working for those microenergy pensioners who can participate in any other form of employment. Of course, we know that the circumstances of a pensioner are many, and a number of microenergy pensioners are not equipped and that they will never be able to participate in professional activities. However, there is also a large group who have the potential for some kind of relocation, and that is why the system needs to be much more encouraging to employment and to reduce the number of clean and completed punishments today. But since I know what to do. In recent years, a senator, if I know the right thing, has worked very hard on this legal class and sits in the highest audience. Social Affairs Minister on Reexamination of the Microenergy Department I really just wanted to ask him a word about the kind of work I've found very little to learn about, at least in public practice the past year. Where the next year of budgeting will be exactly the last year of this government: why. A senator is expecting some conclusion in this work before the fall?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u128	A respectable president. I thank you for your answer. Yes, I can answer short and sweet to the top. Secretary of Social Affairs has announced the arrival of the council by spring. It's been won. Work's been done long ago. She did not fully agree, but her work was good and her resources had become good at the work that was being done. It's always, like, wanting to be, conflicting about certain things. I sincerely hope that the conclusion will be that the proposal of the Quantum must be taken into account because we must start thinking things over a little. It's like I'm talking to what. A senator on the matters of a professional employer who would be on the agenda for professional issues, such as I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do. It'll never work out. Hence, it is very strange when discussing the matters of disability that the largest group of those with least interest is to protect the microorganism; they are in the group trying to make up a latrine for those with whom they have no idea of how to cooperate. We must start to sit down and listen to those living in this situation. I'm telling you, after the time I've been in the management of the survival and survival of the home and in the pitting group of the Quantum Community, that these are the solutions, these people are looking for solutions, and we can. As soon as we do so, we can make sure that everyone can live with dignity.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u129	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. There was another matter. A senator I couldn't agree with, and there's a way to get the money and the idea of taxing deposit in a pension fund instead of cities. Then I'd like to think about one simple question for a reason. A senator. Today it is that, at the same time, at the same time, everyone in his pension is about one and a half. Five to six in the labour market, but we know that this ratio is changing very quickly, and it is predicted that within a few decades, two, three decades, this ratio will be dropped to three at a work market at one retirement level. Then, of course, the key to our pension system is that we are paying taxes of pension when we take it, when we have money from the pension fund and not when we're paying for it. And I wonder, because I've heard this idea a lot, and it has even. They were evicted, I remember, the present council members of the Independence Party; they actually put this idea in the time of collapse. This would be a clever way to finance the financial problems of a government fund. But to me, it is simply abduction of future generations. What should be expected of community consumption if these tax payments are not available when so much of the community is retired? What should be paid for our health care system? What is to be paid for their social security expenses, if we've taken this money and spent it today? Therefore, I fear that such suggestions may be called a generation robbery. Today's generations will have the money of the future generation to improve their standard of living now. It's a policy I can never sign.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u130	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry, and I'll be happy to answer. At the beginning of the pension system, the tax was in. There are many people today who are wounded, especially sailors, who have double taxes. Then we should also consider the collapse, how much taxes were lost there? How much was lost in the deposit of pensions? Is there anything that ensures that these valuables are said to exist in pensions of 5,000 billion? This money is a bird in a forest, a playwright on the market. That's where they're playing. That's where we're playing with taxes. Perhaps it would be better for the government to take these taxes and just put them in a special fund and make sure that they are not being played on the market but are there. It'd be far better to do something like that than to let it be like this. The public wouldn't do that. Let's just say the public before he starts paying taxes, just choosing to pay taxes or to take money to the financial market. Does that make any sense? Not at all. Why, on the other hand, does it make sense to let any system play with the tax money and the tax money that will be paid in the future? Hundreds of billions were actually lost. Tax money was lost to hundreds of billions in the collapse, to the property of pensions. That's why the pension funds haven't gone up as they should have, and that's why we should make sure once and for all time that this doesn't happen again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u131	A respectable president. You can hardly start a discussion about the beginning of the year without saying a few words about the storm and avalanches during a week. Happily, this time it is primarily with appreciation that challenges have been met, including. Here in the hall, when there was a huge crisis fund following the terrible 1995 floods, gratitude for the knowledge that has become available in many places, and crucial to the testing of the weather clinic experts, whether of the rescue teams or other respondants, and gratitude for the fact that when we face the test, we are together, not only the society that is due to the shock, but all of us who live in Iceland. During the following years, it is reasonable to learn from the avalanches of Flatland and the Sufjörður, as it was done 25 years ago, to reevaluate new information to reevaluate existing defenses and plans. Madam President. The members of Parliament who will pass through this hall in the next few years have a heavy responsibility to meet mankind's largest challenge, the climate crisis. It is not an isolated subject, but something that pervades all our work and needs to be pointed to all the issues that come to the attention of the government and the General Assembly. The good news is that the changes we have to make to cope with the climate crisis have the opportunity to rephrase all the systems on which our society is built. Whether we look at changes in the transport system, the tax system, or the economic system in behalf of climate change, the most successful solution is always in the righteous transition, resulting in change to a better community, healthy work, more equalizing, and justice. Here the education system plays a key role, for not only do our children need knowledge of scientific facts about climate change but it provides them with democratic tools to shape society and to use their influence on corporations and politicians. What we need to avoid, however, is to fall into the same trap that Norwegians seem to want to do in these days. There, governments set ambitious goals in climate, but at the same time, they are happy to blow up the massive search for oil off the coast of Norway. In 2020, however, these materials will not be held and released. We will not meet future challenges by repeating past mistakes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u132	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the talk and agree with him when he speaks of the climate change and how we react to them, the steps we need to take as responsible subjects and as responsible governments, that the changes in our large social systems must take place. Care must be taken to avoid the cost of government action to the worst. The same is true of the technological changes, we have to be careful now that rapid and intense technological changes have begun to manifest themselves and become more radical, assuming that in the next few months and years, they will not only lead to the rich, the poorer, the poorer, the lost jobs, and new ones not being replaced. That there are many things to consider in the coming great changes in society. What I'm worried about is that this government, which is supposed to be from left to right, although I have to admit that somehow all the words are the same, that for a government that is such a combination it is really impossible to handle such a change, that a government that wants to make radical changes to society and to fit the equation at the same time can't be so composite, it must really be more uniform. What does it want? A senator say about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u133	A respectable president. The question is good because I think it's one of the most complex things involved in cooperation with the government board. The target elements that are visible are so classic. It's about the fundamental question about the equation in society, about how we divide out the quality, not just within our own country, but between countries. It matters that people are united, and I fear that the government's conservative right arm just doesn't realize what time it is because the battle against climate change has to take place today. The struggle for equalizing the fourth industrial revolution must take place today. Consider just one small example that we have discussed in the Senate Hall before. The government groups agreed that all larger administrations of the government would be evaluated according to their influence on climate. During the last winter, we were granted the largest government plan, almost all of which we could say, a transport program that was not assessed in this way. Again, it came in the fall, not specifically assessed by the influence on climate, although it will build up our transport system, which will last over the next few decades. It does not promise good that this will be done half - blindly on the basis of how systems will affect the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u134	Madam President. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's The Treaty states that a high national park should be established, that after that election, this government will have passed through this law on how a high national park should look and frame around it. When I'm at the highest. Ministers then discuss the national park and when the protest comes - it's a loud protest, e.g. ... withScourgesin the Southland and already the highest. The secretary of transportation and rural government says, "We have to listen to these critical points, " is he saying that I think so, and I'd like to ask if. A senator agrees with me, that the criteria around the park will not be as if they were to take full consideration of any criticism that has developed. I think the same applies to a frame plan. If a frame plan is adopted as it is now, it will also overlap with this international set of national parks if I know it correctly. I'm asking why. A senator whether he agrees with me on this and if it could really be together that this place will be a national park in the highlands, a frame plan accepted, and the government will be held. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u135	A respectable president. I suppose we just need to ask what will be done with a frame plan and a central nation park when the cases finally come to the hearing, but the debate that is already in progress is not promising. It is an enormous conflict, and two things are not supposed to be attached together, the framework on the other hand, and the highland park. Draging a line into the sand at the 3rd edge of a framework program that has been placed twice before the council and not approved puts all too much pressure on the mounts, though large enough. We are the world's greatest power source of electricity on the population, and we are in the very first place in the world. We have, at least, two Kölna chicken Healing Syndromes in the innovation class of the box program adopted on spring days 2013. That's enough, isn't it? Is it not enough of the effectiveness of the use of energy resources in the country when we can achieve much more by amassing the global centres of Iceland? There is much more to it than little 90 megawatt activations up to the edge of the highlands. I was picking up the dust of what I remembered about the third step of a frame plan when it was learned that he should come back to the council and that I was afraid of some ideas that have been inserted there. They say something about how the energy base has worked. Take it, for example. Torfajökull, reservation to Mountainbak. They have arranged high - temperature activations, such as a pearl chain, at the level of peace. Do people who enjoy the unique areas, the stillness, and the natural beauty like to accept some kind of sauna all around them? [[The president calls.]] This list contains ideas that are so crazy that they should not even be viewed as completely independent of a central national park.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u136	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson gave a very good talk. At the end of this discussion, we are positive that we are discussing the biggest issues of our day, the environment. From the beginning of the day. A senator has gained his independence, and he has done a very good bill that I support with my mind and sees that a more clear climate policy has its objective, as it were, to monitor the goals established by the government and to provide them with maintenance and monitoring of how successful it is. It's a bill that, as I say, I'm very supportive, but I think I'm involved in transporting it. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council, whether or not there was a decision. A senator feels that there is a better need for supervision, any aspects of the government's strategy for climate and that prides himself may not fully or may need further attention, how much this team of experts needs to determine whether or not they will be successful. In effect, I'm asking, " What exactly is it that we need to examine when the government says we're going to do something, but the projects don't necessarily follow? ' There are some special examples. A senator is thinking about? I always support general government monitoring, but I wondered if there are special aspects of this action program that the Senator considers a reason to be more attentive to. He mentioned a transport plan, but maybe there is a slightly larger picture on the table as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-20-49.u137	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for referring to my bill of increasing the maintenance of the climate board, which I even expect to be on schedule tomorrow so that we can take this discussion even more seriously in due course. The idea in itself is simple, almost copied from the government law on public finance, where financial advisers have a clear and legal role to study the financial programme of each government when it comes in and submit their opinions to the General Assembly so that the Council can better develop its role in the European Commission. After thinking about it, maybe we should have figured this out when we agreed on the climate council because I think it's so direct. The fact that climate council somehow has a weaker role in the core policy of the public, while financial council has just as important to me, I don't feel that things are going to work in 2020. What might be the situation of the climate Council in this way? In the bill, I simply suggest that there is a government action plan on climate change when it is submitted, and particularly the bases on progress, whether the budget scheduled for the plan is practical and whether the Minister's emission scheme will be successful. This could include a discussion on the effectiveness program of every government on anything other than today, where each interprets it with his nose. [[The president calls.]]
