ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u1	The President now intends to look for a variation to the possibility that the fourth part of the program may be taken on schedule, which was distributed after April 1, and the deadline is not yet 3 mg. Thirty-seven. Parliamentary conditions, i.e. a so-called five-day rule is not fulfilled. In view of circumstances, the president wishes for a variation to be granted without a vote given at 1 mg. 80. g. Congress. No one acts against it and looks at variations approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Transport and Regional Ministers, Foreign and Development Ministers and Education and Culture Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u3	President. I'm asking the highest. Whether the government set some goal in the fight against the pandemic. I am not referring to the obvious answer to the fact that the aim is, of course, that everything is going to be all the best for both health and economic matters, but whether the government has set goals on how this situation will be handled, to develop, and perhaps especially about the virus itself. At the beginning of the epidemic, the goal was to try to break the curve, as it was called, i.e. that there would be no more infections, so that the health system could handle it. Is this still the goal, or is the goal of preventing the spread of the land completely? While such is not available, or any other goal, it is very difficult for governments to mention the public in the country and the companies, to take measures, plan, plan, plan. When people are not aware of what they are looking for, every day of uncertainty and every announcement from the government is being made to maintain uncertainty. Of course, there will always be uncertainty in this condition, I realize that. But has the government put together some stage shots so that they know and can tell the public that certain things will develop in a certain way, so the reaction will be in a certain way? If that were to happen, it would help to form the companies in the country to make major decisions as to how they operate, but it would help governments, you would think, to assist the public and the companies in harmony with the situation and the development of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Of course, as noted in some excellent discussions here yesterday, the objective of the government has changed as we gain more knowledge about the epidemic and the virus it causes. But since the beginning, the guidance has been clear, and I think it is. A senator should not belittle the prerogatives of the nation's health, its life and health, and the minimisation of social and economic benefits. Of course, that is what the Council worked very hard at the spring, i.e. This second guide, to minimise social and economic impacts, including with the intricate measures being taken to support industry and the public in the country, and I don't have to recall it. Right away. A senator testifies that at first there was talk about protecting the health system from stress, that is correct. However, we have seen that the wave we are in right now - that we can call the second wave of the epidemic, that I wish I would trust to call it a second wave, but I dare not do it - to some extent act differently than the first one. Whether it's because the virus is different from what was here in spring or because we're better able to deal with the virus, we'll see at least fewer patients are hospitalised and particularly in intensive care. Of course, that means that we will have to weigh our policy accordingly as our knowledge of the virus and the epidemic progresses. Hv. A senator calls for goals in the treatment strategy. They remain unchanged and have been from the beginning, i.e. setting priorities for life and health We see, however, some changes from the first wave to the next.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u5	President. I wasn't asking for a historical overview. I was asking for some information about where the government is heading now, in view of the situation presented here. You're absolutely right. According to a minister, there is a theory that the virus has other symptoms now. But at the same time, it's the highest. Minister, we've learned so much from our experience. All of this is somehow paradoxed and curly like government policy in this situation. So I reiterate the first question: Is it not possible for the government to give the public more information about where to go and if certain steps are taken, certain things will occur? Because if you plan to close this country completely until, for example, A vaccine is found, and there can be evidence of that, too, the company and the public will take other measures than if they are going to be. Is it not the time, after this six - month experience, for the government to provide more information about where to go, and what can be expected in certain situations?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u6	Mr. President. Hv. A senator comes here on the border-based actions and I admit that I have not completely understood his stand on their actions, although I listened very carefully to him here in the discussion yesterday. They are primarily supported by the fact that on the one hand, we see internal infections that we have not mastered, which all likely indicate came through the border and, on the other, the development of national borders. A senator knows because it is not as if governments are hiding information, that the number of active infections on the border is increasing, and this is directly due to the growth of the worldwide epidemic. This calls for a very strong preventive approach in this country, and the government is facing a choice. Whether we would like to compromise local measures and tighten the border or to continue the hard treatments within the country? It is not a simple choice. A senator realizes. But I think it's important, and I'd have even expected that we would discuss the priorities of the political parties here at the General when the complex options I might have expected were discussed more yesterday. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u7	Mr. President. Me and the highest. Surely the prime minister is sharing the view that the virus epidemic is not here to blame. The head of the United States and head of the left green must agree that one of our greatest projects now is preventing people's distress and that there is an increase in the crisis. Sadly, though, tens of thousands of people will lose their jobs, and homes will suffer a massive loss of income, even half of the income will be provided. This means that more people cannot pay back, not pay rent, not send their children to leisure activities, and even have to refuse to attend needed medical care. While it is good to extend a period of income - related unemployment improvement by three months, it does not mean that there are no incentives for working basics, despite the fact that thousands are already on them. The leader of the Independence Party has claimed that such an increase has a discouraging effect on jobseekers. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Does she agree with that claim?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u8	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. So I'd answer the last question directly, I wouldn't trust myself to claim it. However, I would like to remind you here that this government has taken a very large step in dealing with unemployment insurance. I'd like to recall that in 2018 basic work was 227,000 dollars. That was the case after the time of two right rulerships in the land. Unemployment had not increased beyond the index increase since the collapse. Then it was this government that decided to raise them, as well as raise money - related unemployment benefits and maximum payoffs. If it hadn't been done, unemployment benefits today would be about 238,000 K, i.e. They would have increased according to the index of consumer prices. It was the government's position. We thought that it would be more predicted that the unemployment insurance system would become more stressful, and that's why we managed to raise basic employment benefits. However, we have priorities. This was priority then, i.e. to raise basic employment benefits and payments from the pay fund, and I'm sure that this has made a big difference. However, the latest information that we have presented is to extend the time of income transfer, which we do because of the situation we live in, where many have been losing their jobs because of a pandemic. We're trying to bridge the range that people are facing at the loss of their jobs. The most important project for Iceland, however, is that we can create more jobs and that we can protect ourselves from existing jobs. Therefore, the government's decision is not to engage in government cuts, to defend our systems, to attack, not in cutbacks at these times, but in an even greater public investment, so that we can create more jobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u9	Mr. President. I appreciate the direct answer to that question. But because we are not in history and do not argue that the ladder has been a good step and that it is due to them, it does not change that there will be no delay in the coming weeks, even if we could certainly do more than the government has purposed. That is why you have to ask: What will the government do to protect the people now living at 240,000 dollars? by tax, but have there been legitimate reasons for making all kinds of commitments in terms of much higher pay? I'll take it from here, tops. Prime Minister, despite all things, to raise basic employment benefits?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u10	Mr. President. First, I'd like to say that I find it interesting to know that the members of the government have already decided that everything that happened yesterday has become a history. I think it's fun to mix with the council members of the U.S. Antiquities. I am not sure that historians would call it a history that was being introduced in the day before yesterday. [[Up front.]] But okay. This may indicate that the government has finally found some harmony. I only congratulate you on that. I'd like to state that no action is excluded in the situation we're in. It's not like that. We felt that this was the most important step to take now, i.e. extending this temporary period to meet those who have lost their job in the epidemic. I think it's a very good step. Because of what? A senator referred to various other social factors, and I plan to go to a little more history and recall that this government is, in fact, a government. Just one example, that this government is now introducing education options for jobseekers of 2 billion dollars. which I think we're going to have. A senator will agree that there is one of the most important things we can do in the present situation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I think when we discuss these matters, we just need to look at that context of things.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u11	A respectable president. Yes, there are many of them, the decisions that are difficult and twisted for a pandemic that no one in this room is responsible for. We see a severe crisis, a serious emergency, and a high level of unemployment. I'm afraid there will be more and more crisis for the political decisions of the government. We saw a great solidarity in the early part of the year, everything was done to get the virus together, and it was successful. It was a success that all of us can be proud of. But the consequences of their hard work were also vast, especially for individuals and businesses that were cut off. Then, in May, a well - meaning decision was made on the part of the government, since there has been no consultation, to help people reach the country. During our restoration, we repeatedly asked for a stage and plan back then, but we didn't get any answers. Then the summer went well, but then the virus again started to cool off. We asked again about the stage shots and the plan, some information at that point, but we didn't get any answers. Then, in mid - August, the government's policy changed. The land was about to close suddenly, and again we have asked for stage photos and plans. We are not answered, but it seems to me that a professional minister has really answered our questions. The preparation is unacceptable. It's called for increased analysis. So we can say: As long as the virus is consistent, it is not the government. First, I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether the fact is that little or no analysis was behind the decisions made in the summer and now in August. Where are they? Secondly, and I reiterate that I want an answer to that question, I ask: Was there a agreement on these decisions among all the government ministers, and especially about the strategy of the border? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. But I'm going to make a comment to that word why. A senator said that this was a change in government policy because it is not correct. On June 15 of the job of picking up screening on a border, it was based on a particular methodology that we wanted to pay for traffic through the border while taking extreme precautions. We did this by picking up a screen, which was actually something that very few other nations trusted in, but it was thought of as interesting methodology. I think, as I said in my answer before what. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, that he gave up well. I'm in no doubt, and the data show it, and we've based our decisions on data primarily, that methodology prevented the spread of a number of infectious diseases into the country. Nevertheless, it was as if they were infested. And based on that data and that experience, a returnseptic technique was taken up on July 13, i.e. for the Icelanders and those living in the country, there were specific rules about two screenings and return visits. Of course, the government's decision, which went into effect on August 19, was based on that experience and is completely unacceptable to talk about conversion in that subject, as it could be said that we have taken the risk of globalization, and we captured the rules by setting and extending them to everyone. Then there is a story, as I also came to my previous answer, that we want to evaluate the situation regularly, every two weeks, whether there is a reason to transfer countries from high risk to low - risk areas, which is also the methodology that we have based on and also other nations, but is also a challenge. How will the government assess the risks of the epidemic? Is it only from the incidence of infections? Is it based on hospitalisations, intensive care procedures, and the result of infections? This is the kind of food we're working on right now as if we've been working on so far. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator asks about stage photos: Yes, there are many options and needs to be evaluated individually.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u13	Mr. President. It turned round. There's nothing wrong with that. Just try to explain why they let you in. That's what we're asking for. Why did government decision - making take place? Why was this done? Again and again, the prime minister does not answer the question: Was there a solidarity in the government among all ministers to do so? I'd like to remind you that. In spring, the prime minister agreed with me that decisions, both economic and not those that limit people's freedom, need to be reasoned with. That argument hasn't come to my table at least. A precious union is formed if you receive information and understand the underlying factors behind big decisions. People do not have to agree with the decision, but our people need to know, feel, and understand that behind the decision, there was plenty of preparation and good analysis. That's what people are calling for in the greatest kindness. We need more information. We need to understand what is behind the transformation of the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u14	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. So that I will now answer her inquiry, which she has twice uttered, there was a solidarity in the government on these actions. And why is there a solidarity? Yes, that's because we're based on evidence. A senator no doubt knows that evidence as well as what it says here. Therefore, it is wrong to talk about transpondering because we were based on the methodology that we recommended on June 15 when we decided to go to screening on the border and have been somewhat unique in the international community. We have based on the experience that was created by the screening, the recording of aseptic techniques, and the experience created by the recording of a return-aseptic techniques that will lead us to double screening and screening conditions. What evidence do we have? Obviously, the facts that show us that new strains of virus have come into the land in spite of all our precautions. That's why I make a comment about the use of words. A senator also says that I think it is very important that we discuss these matters here at the General because these are all big decisions and it is important to know exactly where politicians and movements are and how they want to establish priorities. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] I think it's a very important discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u15	President. At the beginning of today's economic crisis, the government did not seem eager to bring Icelanda to the aid of the Icelanda, including the U.S.A. refer to words at the highest. Prime Minister Katrín of Jakobsdóttir's daughter in an interview at the Wolf's House in May, where she said, by permission of the president: We have said that we support that journey. If it succeeds, the state will be prepared to bring a loan line or some kind of state responsibility. At least that was the case. In May, that the minister made it a condition for the state responsibility that the union had achieved its mission to increase its share. But now there is another bank and loan line without even partial funds. Then I must ask, " What has changed in the highest position? ' Minister? Why is it now acceptable to give the Kingdom guarantee, this loan line, without any financial contributions being made? I can't see that anything has changed into the company's position unless, in fact, there's been plenty of government support in the form of the plot and part-change process. Yes, indeed, it has been changed that the union was able to negotiate a well-developed failure of flight attendants and pilots in a very aggressive and even illegal manner. I didn't notice any objections at all. Ministers when Iclanders left all their flight attendants on one board and threatened to negotiate with another trade union. However, I noticed the joy of the highest. Ministers when the blackmail was sealed by contracts with stewardess. So I ask the highest. Minister: Was it the complete victory over the stewardess' struggle that changed her stand for State responsibilities?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u16	Mr. President. For the council, which is discussed below, there is a bill about the state responsibility of a loan line to Icelanda, which is conditional. Those conditions have been clearly clear since spring, and nothing has changed in that assignment. The government has all along stressed that the Society is self-reorganizing itself, that the union itself completes its collective agreements, treaties with shareholders, creditors, and finishs stock tenders, should come to the end of such a Kingdom guarantee on loan line. The bill presented here is primarily about access to financial and economic ministers to provide such responsibility as this goes on. This project has been based on specific guides to the importance of being an Icelandic airline, with national headquarters, a work in the Icelandic labour market; that there is an active airline that can become an important member of the economic demand, especially the tourism service, in Iceland. This guide has existed since the beginning, and the bill before the council is a very normal continuation of the declaration made in spring. In case of a moment. A senator doesn't understand the bill any other way, so I don't understand it. Hv. A senator refers to a stewardess agreement. Yes, I believe that such debates should be solved at the bargaining table. I felt very positive that this dispute was solved at the bargaining table. In case of a moment. A senator disagrees with her issue. But, yes, I think it's normal for a business agreement to be solved at the negotiation table and that both parties should do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u17	A respectable president. V.E.G. One minister says that she feels that it is important for her to resolve such issues at the bargaining table. But I'm asking the highest. Minister: Do you care how it is done? No matter how treaties were achieved, what methods were used? I just heard the minister say right in this that the government's position was shown in its actions and actions by the government, so Iclands managed to save themselves with bull tricks and assaulting basic rights of work in Iceland. The company is rewarded with government responsibilities. That's how it looks to me. Or how to interpret the highest. Minister of running all flight attendants and threatening to negotiate with some unidentified trade union in return and even let pilots do their work in order to succeed in a class struggle? Does that seem acceptable to her? Does she feel that this is an acceptable methodology at the bargaining table? Is it something to be rewarded with government support?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u18	Mr. President. I can tell by the words. A senator that she and her party have any doubts about the bill here on the welfare of state responsibilities. I just want less of it. A senator says that it has the government from the beginning provided the clear guide I went over earlier. We can agree or disagree on that guide. I think it's important that this country is a live airline with Iceland's headquarters, active in an Icelandic labour market. I think it's important that we have an airline that can play a key role in rebuilding travel services. I think it's an important guide, but I don't know what to do with it. There's a senator. I think it is an important guide, as shown in the presentation of this case, that we, on the other hand, have access to public and public funds by having these clear fences laid here, i.e. that the Society completes its own financial reorganization, gathers the money itself, and the state is really there in support. [[The president calls.]] Maybe there's a reason. A senator disagrees with me about all these guides, and then we're just that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u19	A respectable president. I brought a mask in the speaker's chair because I was having physical therapy this morning. It's got a mask. Sadly, though, this obligation does not seem to apply to all who search there. There's a delicate group, and I started to think, " Wait, am I in greater danger with my physical therapist or here at the Senate Hall? ' I've had the same physical therapist for years, so I don't think so. But then I thought, " What is the situation with regard to human rights and constitution? ' Is everyone equal when it comes to the actions of Covid? We've seen this in the past few weeks in the news that there's been an ass study on the control of restaurants. There have been broken rules, groups of people assembled, drunk in waves, but at the same time the theaters are closed. There's no one there, and there's no audience. At the same time, 22 people play soccer for almost two hours, two times 45 minutes at least, hug and do all the things, but on the audience, no one can wear, not masked, not every 2 meters. I'm asking, "Where do these things fit into?" We have come to the point of causing the global sports movement. We caused enormous losses to artists. Is it not the time after six months to fight this virus, to sit down and give a clear message, to set clear goals that all are equal in the law, and that we will make sure that there are no exceptions to who may be where and what may be done?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u20	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I mentioned earlier that it is part of the subject that we are continually learning from experience. The use of a mask was not initially recommended, but now it has been changed by experience, including Other parts of the world, so this is where a mask is being proposed under certain circumstances. Hv. A senator came to realize that not everyone was respecting those rules, and that is a problem. The other day, I visited the National Hospital in Fosov, where there was an extremely strict surveillance for all to honor the masks that came in. Also, I know that there has been a very strict international surveillance program, so we may in some way accept the new responsibilities laid upon us. Hv. A senator also asks if everyone is equal. It is, of course, that it has not been like that. What do we want to say to residents in the nursing homes of this country? Have they had full rights throughout this epidemic? I don't think so. What about the people who lost family members, especially during the first wave of the epidemic, who were not allowed to sit with them during the last few hours? Did they enjoy full rights? Many people have not been given the right to run their jobs. Hv. A senator names a physical therapist, and we can talk about massagers, hairdressers, etc. The fact is, many people have not had their full rights through this epidemic. Of course, there we have tried to be moderate - minded and not go beyond what needs to be done and to make sure that people accept the action being carried out. This is always a difficult question, but it is the food that remains on the side of the authorities, how we ensure that we do not go beyond what is needed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u21	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I agree that, of course, nursing homes have to be protected, such places have to be protected, and they are doing so. Those at high risk also need to have a choice, making sure that they have access to everything, masks, and so forth. This mask of mine costs 2500 bucks. A third mask costs more than 5 k. The mask I had with the physical therapist this morning, which is probably in many ways better. This shows that there is heaven and sea apart in prices. The fact is, there's a certain group out there that doesn't have food for them. I doubt them for masks. I don't think they have any alcohol. I don't know if the arrangements have been made so that these people can come and have free masks and free alcohol. Is that not also part of the program?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u22	Mr. President. Yes, that is one thing to consider. Many operators offer free masks, but not everyone. This is one of the things we need to consider. Also, it's not the same with a mask. Hv. A senator is here with three layers, a reusable mask, as I understand him, right? On the other hand, there are multitudes of multiuse masks in traffic that are not three layers, so there we are learning only from the experience in those first days. I like to think about it too, just so I say it here, that often people react strangely when some choose to wear a mask. I want to use this opportunity to encourage all of us to respect it if people choose to wear a mask in their jobs, to treat them with respect, and not to respond with any questions. This is just part of protecting yourself in the present situation, and we should show them understanding and respect the choice of people in the absence of a mask. I want to reiterate it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u23	A respectable president. Here I recommend a bill for the budget for 2020, which is to be found on deck. 2032. This is the fourth budget bill presented at this council. Along with the budget-shaped bill, I also recommend a bill to change the state responsibilities that are to be found on deck. 2033, but both issues are responsible for the commitment to provide the company of Icelanda. During the past few weeks and months, the effects of the pandemic spider's global economy have become increasingly evident. Despite the extensive and extensive effects so far, there is no way to determine who they will be at the end of the day. However, most of the articles assume that the effects will be deeper and more lasting than at the beginning of the epidemic. Since the beginning of the epidemic, a number of economic measures have been implemented to meet the impact. Otherwise, it can be assumed that there will be another additional budget bill until the autumn months, hopefully just one thing, but it would be a custom, and it happened at the 151st legion. It's expected that this bill needs to provide further sources of money, including to meet the increased cost of unemployment insurance in the current year and other costs of the pandemic crown virus, which is not included in the resources of public reserves. This fourth bill for funding before 2020 is suggested solely for the change of regulations in Article 6. The budget on the bill. The bill is thus suggested that Icelanda be approved with the obligatory responsibilities of a government fund on loans due to the company's loss of income in relation to a new season of crown virus. It is estimated that the total debt of the state's funds for this is worth up to 108 million dollars or about 90% of 120 million dollars of loans to the company. That amounts to up to 15 billion dollars. Compared to the U.S. dollar gang at the bill input. There is a strong reason for such an operation, as can be seen. It is an operation that is in many ways unique in a financial sense. However, as a result of Iceland's geographic situation, it is necessary to ensure safe and continuous transport, both for the transport and for the transport of goods. This has led to a dramatic growth in the number of recent years in the tourism industry, where Icellands'activities have made a fundamental translation. A major basis for the growth and survival of all other tourist attractions has been the result of the bus transport of the company. Iclanders have been the burden of flying transport to and from the country, which is therefore definitely a systematicly important business here on the country. It can be said, then, that there is a great deal of social interests involved, along with very significant financial advantages for a number of employees and companies. At the beginning of the process that has led to the search of the Council is the authority to provide the State guarantee of a loan line to Illelands, it was felt that it was clear on the basis of such support. This was discussed in particular by the Ministry Committee and later by the government. The arrival of the State to render responsibility or to ensure access to loans has, after this work and some overcrowding on the part of the government, been subject to several key presidents. First, the establishment of the State is necessary in order to ensure a safe and intact flight to and from the land. Second, to ensure that there is a pilot who is actively involved in the economic resistance at the time. Third, that long-term management and competitiveness are guaranteed, and fourthly, the public funds and risks of the State will be limited to those who serve public interests and who do not have the goal of defending the interests of shareholders or creditors. These conditions indicate that support for the Society depends on it serving the clear public interest of protecting public funds to support the company. In addition, is the government's approach dependent on the success of the financial restructuring of the society in accordance with the proposed plans, including the acquiring of new funds, the part of which is still to be fully tested. The loan line with state responsibilities has been published during sleep management procedures as well as the ESA's announcement of approval for responsibility. Is also there a financial and economic presentation to represent the Generals. This refers to a meeting held this week with a financial committee and representatives of a class. We had also prepared this presentation, especially if some members of the council would request a meeting with the advice we have most trusted in, and I know that some such meetings have already been conducted. I will now review key factors. It is based on the fact that the loan line with the government's responsibilities is a real problem. In this way it can be said that this provision includes the coming of the Kingdom to include all aspects of financial restructuring, i.e. Come after everything else that needs to happen first. This requires that the management board be fully funded with money other than a loan from the authority of the State. The current management plan meets this requirement and does not assume that the loan line will have to be drawn up on the schedule and its criteria. It is also forbidden to borrow a loan line with the State's responsibilities until all other financial resources have been fully used in the community. This includes not testing the responsibility unless there is a situation where society's business is going considerably worse than plans are expected. The main purpose of a government loan line is to provide increased management security for the union that should have a positive influence on investing in order to reimburse the company. Also, the loan line is called the first one, i.e. that in the same way as the state is going to be the state's first out to show that the Kingdom guarantee has limited duration. It is assumed that if a loan line has been tried with a state of responsibility, the priority of the business will be to settle those debts. If society allows, the terms of the terms are expected to pay the loan line down as quickly as possible. It is only permitted to make high-price uses in society to speed up the loan line reimbursement. In some sense, the success of the enterprise may be called an excess of money, and there will be no more than paying off those loan lines with the responsibility. It cannot be cashed into other loans. It is also a requirement that only the loan line can be used with the State's responsibility to account for the general cost of business management. For example, the loan line cannot be used for investments or to reimburse other commitments or speed up their payment. The government's loan line is aimed at ensuring that society's management will not stop if the progress of the company becomes slower than the management plan assumes, or that the market situation will be heavier in the next two years, such as if there is air control or use of airplanes, it will not be in accordance with the Society's plan. Despite this role of the loan line, it remains bound to the degree of failure and duality. First, there is a limit to a monthly assessment of 20 million dollars; however, there is a limit to an individual budget of 2% or 25 million dollars. The first line will lead to a minimum of six months of exposure to finish the line, and the second line will prevent society from drawing to the line if its business has failed with its own money is running out. It is expected that the credit card season will be two years or September 2022. That's the time limit I mentioned before. The loan line should be reimbursed with equal monthly payments over the next three years or until 2025. As mentioned earlier, a faster paying off of the loan lines is expected to be allowed by society's management. It is determined that 75% of excessive funds at any given time will be reduced according to the terms of this loan line. The minimum responsible charge for the planned extraction is 1% but increases as the line is extended, with 1% as the ESA, the EFTA monitoring centre, has approved and was used in the SCS. The requirement for the establishment of a state of responsibility is, as noted, that Icelanddas are able to strengthen their budget according to society's plans and that the Council agree that they will be authorized to take responsibility. Other enduring conditions of responsibility will also be asked, but they are as follows: First, the motherhood and flight drivers' headquarters will be here in Iceland and their stock will be registered at the market in Copenhagen. Second, the company will be forbidden to pay interest, to reduce stocks, to buy personal items, or to do other things that include the provision of funds or assets to shareholders or linked parties. Third, creditors and financiers do not have access to bankruptcy or to speed up payment on loan or financing contracts. Fourth, don't negotiate with lenders, other financiers, no supply to speed up payment or other burdensome changes in reimbursement beyond what is stated in the official management programme. It has also been the objective of governments to make sure that government funds will not be used to pay creditors or to give special support to the existing shareholders. The network meets the requirement that the expected business of the company over the next 24 months is fully funded by new stocks, demands and other measures, such as agreements against labour agreements with Icelanda. All of this is the prerequisite that we have reached the time limit that the Council must take a stand on this Kingdom responsibility. I think it's very important that the months that have passed since this discussion have been very effective. They've been useful in reorganizing the business. It's taken longer than we anticipated. However, the stage has been set for each other. I haven't mentioned everything that's happened in that context, such as making deals with the Boing aircraft manufacturer, but there's one part of what's happened. Something else that has taken place since we began this discussion is simply the Icelandic tourist industry this summer and how summer would be fulfilled to a degree for the company. This has had an effect on long-term plans and gives some indication of what might take place when the effects of the retroviral epidemic begin to decline and then fall behind. There is yet another factor that could be mentioned in this regard is public action that the Society has been able to take advantage of. This has affected society's evaluation of the need for financial injections. Among other things, this, along with other factors, has likely had an impact on the overall assessment of the need for new parts in the past. I think the answer to the big question about whether the Society is considered to be competitive for a long time is that we must simply trust investors in the company to evaluate that point. Thus, the invitation to new stock is actually the big test, the big test that the Society is facing, and much better to answer that question than that we take our stand on the matter here at the council, how competitive the Society will be after all that is going to happen. The test for this is simply a management plan and a conversation with the market, a new investor. On the basis of the criteria mentioned, it must be concluded that it is conditional that the partner is stipulated by the stock market. But we have to face the fact that the effects of the crown virus are still unclear, and this is actually the root cause of the problem, i.e. The need for Kingdom responsibility to create and complete this vast financial reorganization in almost unknown circumstances. In this situation, we have rarely faced others as uncertain as the need for Kingdom responsibilities may appear to us. In this context, I have to add that it is in many ways a very remarkable fact that the company separates from among large airlines, carriers in many countries, by staying well on foot until the fall, while a large number of airlines found their way into a lot of trouble early spring. This is true of large airlines in Norway, Germany, and in many countries where countries were forced to enter a position that had come up and buy or lend money. This tells me a significant story about the financial strength that the Society had when the situation changed. Only about which factors could have further negative effects on the results of the Society during the period we are looking at, i.e. the valid period of state responsibility. It would be that situation that would increase the likelihood that the loan line would be pulled off with the Kingdom guarantee. Would this increase in demand during the expected period of the underlying strategy would interfere with the availability of Icelanda. Similarly, increasing competition may lead to a lower price on airports than expected in this program. However, our research experts have performed certain sensitive analyses, and it shows that a substantial variation from the management programme is required to get the partner into financial problems. However, if the Society were to fail, the government's financial risk is 90% from the head of the loan line, a total of 108 million dollars, but under these circumstances, the assets expected to be staked. Emoticons, Protocol systems, and post-mortems run to the state and could be used to address the uncertainty of what the bankruptcy would involve. In addition, the State would have a requirement for the company and would thus be better off than a shareholder who would simply have to face up to the loss of all the money. At least the claim would be at least ... withtheends. A respectable president. The State responsibility for the loan lines to Iccelanders is, as I've traced here, to help achieve sufficient success in the financial restructuring of this important society and to ensure that the Society has the ability to deal with challenges, even if the effect of the pandemic remains longer than we have anticipated. It also makes it clear that governments are ready to support the Society's programme and are helping to trust the basis of this systematicly important enterprise. The State responsibilities to Icellands will contribute to the rapid acceptance of the branch transport services and the linking of the Chefavor airport when people begin to travel back to some extent. Thus, the basis for a more powerful resistance to tourism and the economy as a whole is created. I'm going to predict that when this epidemic is over, there will be just the circumstances to get a very powerful fight. We've built infrastructures that make us much better in rural areas than when the rise of tourism began before. Ten years. We have invested, placed billions of public funds on a variety of projects and infrastructures, as well as the investment of tourism companies and the establishment of a great deal of knowledge, experience, and network. There is no doubt in my mind that the interest in traveling to Iceland will be, if anything is, more in the future than has been so far, and in some strange way you can also say: This virus epidemic is bringing up many of the most important benefits of being in Iceland, living in Iceland, traveling in Iceland, over Iceland crowded subways or in crowded tourist areas in hot heat elsewhere All of a sudden, they have become very attractive in comparison. I think all the circumstances are there to be optimistic about the future of tourism and its future in Iceland. More important, we will do what we can to make sure that those who work in this sector will pass through the most difficult times and be present to participate in the structure. There is one key action in ensuring resistance, not just for tourism, but for the economy as a whole. A respectable president. Along with the budget-shaped bill, the bill is also presented a bill for changing state-respecting laws. Government responsibilities laws give evidence of economic conditions and the work of the government under their administration. Since then, the economy has changed, and it has to be said, as it is, that there has been a long time before for a total review of the law. The laws can still apply when the state's budget is responsible for individual projects or projects in standard market conditions. In this traditional context, for example, it has been very often noted that the State is responsible for the payment of a bank. A review of the committee that operates on the basis of the laws of state responsibility has then turned toward the bank's strength or to the lender. On the other hand, when it comes to extensive marketing failures, as has been done in the current pandemic, the terms and terms of the law do not particularly well refer to specific support for enterprises. Many of the things that the law expects us to consider, consider, and lie over are things that we are making for the council and that show that we have been doing. I refer to the data presented to committees and will appear before a financial committee. This is, in fact, the central work of the experts who have been involved in the case so far. We stated earlier this year, when Kingdom responsibilities were being carried out on this resolution, that application of Kingdom responsibilities would not be appropriate for support loans, additional loans, and travel guarantees. With all this evidence, it is suggested that the State - responsibilities Act be added to the provisional regulations that the law's terms do not apply to such commitments to Illelands. The conditions and terms of responsibility on the part of the State have been tailored to the Society and to the conditions of the economy because of the pandemic. As the terms of the loan are presented, in exchange for given responsibility are laid down, as is expected in the state of responsible law. The budget will be submitted at 0.25% of the annual budget. Also calculated, the use load ranges from 0.75 to 1% of the state of contractures at the end of each month, depending on the amount of charge. To the extent that the law on State responsibilities applies, in the case of responsibility to Icelanda, it has been taken care of on the loan terms. It is thus the premise that the Society will take steps to promote its payment and that insurance, responsibilities, and use loads will be evaluated as appropriate according to the circumstances. A respectable president. I'm completing my case. I'm going to say here, at the end of the day, there's been a lot that's happened in a few months in our good community. We have had to resort to a number of resources that you could not have thought of when a new year began. This gives us a witness on the budget that we've made here at the council. Of this many other government support measures are given, and here is another matter that would have been very difficult to predict. It's far from likely to be bringing the individual business of this country to assist with state responsibility, with the responsibility of the whole community. That is why we have had to set a set of principles, and we have followed them as guides for this work. I have to say, given all the circumstances, as they have evolved, I feel that this has been a success. I believe this is an advantage far better option than the government fund had taken direct loans to the company. This is also a far better option than the fact that the state has become a partner to the company, even if it was planned for a short time. I must also say that the Society has accomplished an amazingly important work, and in many ways admirable, work in the past few months. Of course, only through unions, such as unions, creditors, and other owners. [[Top of the list, stewardess.]] The unions like the stewardess, right? In that respect, I feel that even if this is a very unusual operation, it is going as well as possible to wish according to the circumstances. I suggest that these two elements, which I have ordered here, be referred to. The legal committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u24	Mr. President. This has certainly been a terrible year all over the world, and it has not been an envying situation for anyone, especially an airline such as Icellanda. Clearly, there is something that needs to be done in this situation, and it is natural for us to wonder, " What roads were available? ' I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance to the forward film analysis. What scenarios were examined, which avenues were considered, and perhaps especially where, and why? I ask, though, that in his speech, a minister certainly reviewed why it was considered inappropriate to buy money rather than to give Kingdom responsibility. How did the negative points weigh against the positive points? It's, for example. can give evidence that giving Kingdom responsibilities sets a bad example. [[The president calls.]] You can argue that this is a kind of national use of the risk but that it is a personal gain. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u25	A respectable president. I think there'll be a little bit more time to go deeper into these factors in the treatment of the Committee. But I think it's proved to me that the methodology we used in this case, putting down certain basics, has been very effective. First, we will not be involved in this unless there is a need for the establishment of the State to fly to and out of the country, or there is a certain danger of breaking it. Second, it is important for us that there is an aerospace operator who is based on the fact that the function takes place through Keflavík Airport as an airport. Third, the lack of support without man's taking steps to ensure long - term competitiveness. And fourth, that we are not adding a new amount of money or a loan when those who have direct business interests or financial interests in the community have not contributed, such as. to save shareholders. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] With these criteria, making decisions is easier.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u26	Mr. President. Yes, all of this is true, but we still need to know what forms were taken into consideration. These conditions are quite good for themselves. But what I see on this state responsibility is the risk to the public. In fact, having this success is not a big deal for the government. Of course, we hope this works. But it would be worth looking for a proper marketing route, even going the way it was done in the collapse with the banks. There's a lot of negatives about that, I'll go over it in my speech afterwards. At any rate, we need to know the source of the road, why the rejection was made, and why this route was eventually considered the best. She's not safe. It is not completely safe, and it provides a dangerous example, which, of course, needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u27	A respectable president. You can stand here at the General Assembly and watch the Society from the distance and then say in the spring months: I think it's best if this company quits either business, and it's gonna start a new one, or we'll start a share, and take some more part, or something like that. I don't think that's an ideal method. I think it's much better to have the market answer all the hard questions. That's what we do by saying: If everyone else has faith in this, if you can be successful with your protesters, and if it comes up with a new piece of stock and you've already shown that with our support, you're gonna be successful, we're willing to try the Senate to take responsibility for a loan line. Eventually it will eventually become the new stockholders, i.e. who are being asked to bring in new money, which shall render that judgment. [[The president calls.]] They are the ones who will judge whether this was the best way or not. [[The president calls.]] If the union fails to go to the stock market, they will never try this state responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u28	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of extensive history in this very important and large case involving a company that is favored by the people of the country. It has large questions, especially in terms of the provision of public funds and the risks of government in general. The minister has stressed that public funds and risks should not be aimed at defending the interests of shareholders or creditors, and he included some conditions with regard to the formula called the first issue. Perhaps it would be appropriate to ask the highest question. Each minister of them feels that he is acting in this respect. As a result: Has the overall risk analysis been performed in which government funds risk would be assessed on different grounds? [[The president calls.]] I have more questions and will try to communicate them in a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u29	President. If I understood the inquiry correctly, they will be calling for what it is of the conditions that tend to reduce the risk. I think that what remains to diminish the national risk is the requirement for men to complete their stock tenders, apart from other aspects of financial restructuring. We're talking about the right time, about 20 billion of the new stocks, and more than that, into the organization that provides a lot of oxygen into the future. This is in my mind the largest single operation in financial reorganization, although something else was important for the long-term competitiveness of the society. With regard to the options, it is not merely contained in some table calculus and found out. A little depends on where people stand politically. [[The president calls.]] What grade would you like to give them the idea that there's a private airline running a competitive business? [[The president calls.]] I give it a high score.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u30	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. Following what I asked earlier, I'd like to ask, because the media has discussed potential sales insurance for the planned tenders and in this regard the banks, Iceland and the Landsbank: Has the government's risk been evaluated? Has the highest. A minister gives any instructions to the Bank Office on how bank governments should exercise themselves in this regard? I'd also like to ask you about the values of the book of bets listed, i.e. Tags, accounting systems, etc. versus the financial risks taken from the State in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u31	A respectable president. I haven't had a meeting where sales are scheduled. We have not been able to do that, we have not been asked to think about it, and as far as I know, there is nothing about possible sales insurance. Let's just say, as it is, the overall risk of the State is growing with the insurance policy, but it's being suggested in the history of stock tenders where the expected increase of investors is going to be considerable, running management programmes. Then, too, let us allow them to float along in the discussion of possible market insurance that if they were successful, they would enjoy the fruits. But I have no particular interest in the fact that the State is involved in such a financial risk. I'm just not interested in it. It must be a business decision made by each bank. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u32	A respectable president. There are quite a number of unconcerned factors, as the Government Accounting pointed out in its review. Of course, we on a budget board will do well with that. Public review will include: until it is very unlikely that the property set up as a guarantee for the recovery of responsibility will simply depend on the requirement. But okay, that's all the things we're gonna do well, and we're in the government's stand just for a few days, but the government's been having a conversation with Icelanda for more than five months. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, everything else, and developing competitive views: How to ensure that the loan line itself is not new to improve the position of other members than those who are already involved in the flying business that is already in the kit and are in competitive business? There are travel agencies. Despite their diminishing numbers, they are competitive. How can we make sure that the loan line is not new to improve their status? [[The president calls.]] I will come to the formalities and laws on the state responsibility afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u33	A respectable president. The money taken for the state responsibility in this case is, in fact, the remaining bets. I think it's quite true, it's uncertain of their worth. I also think worth the landing cover, if we specifically take it, will swing over time after market situation. I believe, however, that the value of a Web site and all accounting systems and what is underneath can be enormous. In fact, the client, the client, is making as informed decisions as possible in spite of uncertainty. It would not be very difficult to stand here at the council or to be a minister if you could always make decisions where there would be no uncertainty and everything would always be clear on every subject. [[The president calls.]] Now we face this situation and have a decision to make. Often, the worst thing you do is not make a decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u34	A respectable president. I'm not going to complain about deliberation in this government, I'm just complaining about it and reiterate it to the highest level. Secretary of finance that the public and us may be better informed here at the council. I believe that by doing so, there is more solid solidarity, precious solidarity, which is important in building up a powerful and powerful working life. I reiterate my question: How is it to ensure that the loan line is not new to another business but the airline, it is not new to a competitive operation within the kit? Second, I would like to ask: Why are Kingdom responsibilities not being used? The last time we had a state responsibility, she was abdicated from 2nd and 3rd. The law of state responsibility reminds me that it was because of Vella-hidenism. We know how it turned out. I believe that a firm arrangement is under the laws of state responsibility. It's not appropriate to say that the law doesn't fit, I think much more that the protocols there are clear and underline a specific protection code for the state. Of course it will be considered, but I pay attention not to be compromising the rules and requirements of state responsibility. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u35	A respectable president. I agree that it is completely absurd to take a stand on the matter without everyone being properly informed. Once we have a clear picture, we have shared everything with the council. These are new things. We've just finished our contract on conditions for the state responsibility. It actually tested whether the State and the Society could meet for the conditions. We're not trying to push the state responsibility into the company. The State is being called for to give a responsibility. We make conditions where money used from a loan line only goes to the business. It is true that it cannot be kept down much more. But it's a question of why people are particularly worried about it. There's always a line over which men cross. There was an example of the temple barrier, since I thought that preparation had been inadequate. [[The president calls.]] Regarding the State Accounting Act, I miss that there is more material access to the precise laws that could have benefited in the present situation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u36	The President corrected that there would be five respondents in this series, mentioned about four.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u37	A respectable president. We're covering loan lines to Icellands. Icelands have been in some trouble with the Maxs, but it seems they're gonna be fine. But regarding the clumsiness of Illelands with the flight attendants: Has the highest. Ministers do not worry that the clumsiness will damage them at the auction, e.g. about getting the pension money in? Their dispute with unions does not end because of this. There's something else I'd like to think about, and there's some of those in here. Yes, the state has 15 billion, but it seems to me that 10 billion should be with the banks and both are owned by the state. Then it seems to me that they need 45 billion more, so the total package is about 60 billion. Has this been taken out? Is this the right number, 60 billion overall, that they are trying to reach?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u38	A respectable president. I don't know how society's managers will manage to maintain trust in markets, investors, I'm not going to predict that. But surely we can agree that once humans have reached contracts, two things must be done, and thus differences have existed, were brought to earth, and are no longer there. I think it was a very important address that the partner reached the robot dispute, which was actually opened by the company earlier this year, asking for a renewal of the bargain agreements that were then in force. I don't have an economic account in my head exactly, but it's true that the overall commitment is huge when we take the planes and all the other loans. Only then can we see what the mortgage is like. These are very different from financial initiatives that blend into the overall debt debt complex and, for example, the debt gate. In the case of airplanes, we are talking about a completely different kind of commitment and a different type of repair than the one we're talking about here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u39	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answers. This is a huge amount of money, but what I'm worried about is an example. What example are we setting in society? Are we telling who to save and who not to? It's a lot of money, and I think that's to be taken into the court's account the money both state banks put out because it tells themselves that if the state banks lose this money, they'll lose their state funds too, because they don't get paid from the bank. Hence, what the banks have must be part of the progress of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u40	A respectable president. This was one of the best talks for the personalization of banks that I've been hearing for a long time; we don't want to sit down with all this loan risk in the Icelandic financial system on the responsibility of taxpayers. It was also revealed in the collapse that it was only fine that not everything was directly damaged by the State through the stocks and loans. It is good to keep this in mind regarding whether we want to have a completely state - of - law banking system or not. The loan loss will be at the cost of the state in case of a disaster. Of course, we won't be able to clear up this discussion here. You're right. A senator points out that it is in a certain way indirect damage to state funds if the loans from state banks do not get back, as could possibly be meant in this case. But we cannot understand this discussion because it takes a much deeper view, e.g. what insurance is available for individual loans and what status the banks had with other members of the Society if this was to be the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u41	Mr. President. When giving a review, we should listen. A public review is our agency, the General Assembly, and it points out in a more recent review that it is very unlikely that the insurance paid for the loan line will be held. When it comes to borrowing, it is important to know how insurance is handled, how to make a bet. A State Review simply asserts that these ideas on mortgages, accounting systems, brands, and landing pots are not effective. That's 15 billion. This is a large amount, more than the government puts in all of the country's child settlements. So I wonder and ask the highest. Minister: In what ways can we better secure the interests of the State when it comes to bailing on this loan? I know it's all bets up to the top. Is there any other way in the Minister's opinion to meet these serious comments or concerns of Government Accounts that these bets simply do not work? [[The president calls.]] We all want the Icellands well, especially with national interests and staff in mind, but this needs to be quite clear. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u42	A respectable president. I don't think it's going any further to get insurance from the company. We make the matter before the council in this suit, with these terms, and this needs to be determined in the light of other things the State has asked. I would say that, on the contrary, there's a lot of concern that the bet may be a loss if this situation occurs, people should weigh and weigh the credibility of the strategy. You should consider how much money collects. You should see how far the other members of your society have been willing to walk, e.g. ocials. When all of this is taken together, the question can be answered: The Kingdom has placed enough conditions for giving Kingdom responsibilities, and the State has tried to take adequate care of its interests, i.e. how to minimize the risk? [[The president calls.]] I believe we have.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u43	Mr. President. If the highest. The minister thinks this is sufficient, i.e. That I would like to ask him what the Ministry's assessment of these assets is worth. Has there been an assessment of the value of the brand or the accounting system or the landing warrant? It doesn't look like they're showing up to me. We're trying to secure 15 billion here, and the National Reunion, which is not any institution, points out that these bets are inadequate. Then the Ministry of finance must have some ideas about the value of the property that is behind it or what? Has it not been evaluated, or is it complicated? It would be very helpful for us to hear from this chair how this has been measured by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u44	A respectable president. What we can say about this is that some of these bets are actually impossible to make. If a person was to rebuild a union with the name Ictellands in the future, then the site and everything associated with it must be worth quite a bit. For other bets, you can look to examples. There are cases of landing permits, e.g. in New York Airport, buying and selling for very large sums of money, even billions, and at these major airports elsewhere. But I also think maybe at the moment, a landing permit in the United States is worth less, but it may have been two years ago, so it's probably on the market also. You can go down to the stitches and get more information from those who have been there to advise us on these aspects of the work of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u45	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Prehistoric finance minister with these two issues that we are discussing together. This is for many things, both large and complex, how best to cope. It is important that we try to make as much effort as possible, since the consequences of making such a move can be intense. It doesn't have to be said that there's a lot of uncertainty here. There's been a lot of trauma in tourism and air traffic. In many parts of the world, governments, or government, have intervened and come to the aid of others, and this is done in many ways. It is obvious that transport to and from the country is important. Of this, all of us can agree. We can also agree that Icelandi Groups have a lot of value and resources, but we need to think very carefully about how things are being done and what is the wisest thing to do. The Illelandian Group is largely owned by the national pensions. I think I'm correct in saying that about 43% of holding is owned by Icelandic pension funds, and by itself the union is directly or indirectly owned by all the people of the country. By giving Kingdom responsibilities, guaranteeing loan lines from the state's banks, the Society has come to more or less in the arms of governments. This will allow the line between personal conflict and state conflict or public management to become vague. The big thing we need to consider - and I'm not going to have any big claims about it at this point, since we are reviewing the matter on a financial committee and we've already begun to call a guest - is to realize if Icelanda's plans and plans for the future are likely to fail. In this context, we need to consider whether there may be other means to achieve the basic objective of making transport available to and from the country. Is this the only way to secure them, or are there any other options? We know that there is much turmoil in the flying world. There's a lot going on. There are many airlines in trouble, and some of them will not survive. We do not know how people want to travel in the future and how much they want to travel. We hope, of course, that people are going to want to travel, and we all hope that they want to come here in Iceland and the tourism business is right from the cow. That is why it is important for us to discern whether we are going the right way. The text of the bill shows that this is a road that includes. Went to have a positive influence on the arrival of investors. This is where the government puts a team and helps investers to view the Society as a promising investment option. The first question could be that, and it even came. conducted in the highest talk. Secretary of finance, if investors are willing to contribute with funding, that would be the test of society's plans. I don't have any statements in one direction or any other, I want it to be perfectly clear, but you have to ask: If society's plans are realistic and that they're attractive to investors, don't you think that's enough? Is it not enough that the Society has reorganized its business, has established a strategy and a projection of the future that indicates that it will survive these problems and have a future? That's enough, isn't it? Why does the Kingdom need to enter there? Then there are other stage photos. Of course, there are other options. First, many airlines fly to and out of the country. Of course, it has been reduced recently for reasons we all know, but there are many strong airlines that one would guess would fly to and from Iceland if they thought it was profitable. Then I think it's worth mentioning, too, in this context, that the Icelandic airline has established its base in Iceland, and if it is supposed to be its declarations, it is prepared to start a business and is really no longer equipped to start it and can begin working on the Icelandic market with a very short notice. You might ask yourself, " Is there any choice there to be in this situation that might be worth paying attention and whether such a union could be built up in such a way and at the rate that it could fill into this gap? ' Let us not overlook the fact that all of this is risky. Although this is not foretold, and much more, we need to be aware that, first of all, we may not be able to obtain investors in this traffic. Of course, something else will happen. Then the company or its owners will need to take other measures in order to keep the company floating. First, ask yourself: " Does it not mean that these measures are sufficient for the union to survive, to take steps to reorganize, and to achieve their business goals in a different way than by the government? There's one thing. Then we have to keep an eye on the fact that this may not work out, and there may be a possibility that the company does not get right from the cow, it simply goes on running out. That puts Kingdom responsibilities to the test. We're also trying to have two bank agencies that have credit lines for the club, and then, as I mentioned earlier, we've got the owners of our pensions that will lose their money. There's a dilemma in the matter, as they say, I realize it, and therefore I don't proclaim any magic solutions in it exactly at this point, and I probably can never bring magic solutions, what's best to do. I think we have to go over all these matters very carefully because they're very dramatic. Rather, we have come to believe that only in very special circumstances should the government handle jobs. It is claimed that this is a very special situation, and this may well be the case at the highest level. The minister of finance mentioned in his speech. I don't want to pass judgment or south on what to do. What I'm trying to say is, it's a real problem. It is important that we consider all possibilities. I think we're all shocked by the idea that this flagship of our tourism, Iclanders, might fail. But it may. It's possible that it will happen. Then we also need to ask ourselves, how do I put this in order to put it right, that we need to try to have as cold a head as possible when we think about what is best and wise to do, not allow feelings or doctrines or actions to be in control of what will be done? I'm not gonna have this much further. I just wanted to put in the general perspective. I don't think it's time at this point, at least. not for me, to go very deeply into the matter itself, and to have strong opinions on its individual components. I need to take a closer look and get more information. I believe rightfully that there is nothing obvious in my mind which steps are the most reasonable in this matter and which way to choose. There may be more than one way to go, and they have all their advantages and weaknesses, as well as risks. None of this is safe. We know that air traffic is a swingy business, we have a story about airlines that have come and gone all over the world and also in Iceland. We need to weigh this carefully. It has been said, and I'm not going to reduce, that all kinds of business relationships, guided systems, etc., are valuable in themselves, and that in Icelanda, which runs all these systems and flies in all these places, are of great value. I don't doubt it. On the other hand, will it take more years to go on a similar course for other communities? I don't have the answer, but times are changing, and so fast, and we're going to have to make some evaluations. That's just what I want to say. I know we're all going to take a very careful look at this situation and take the steps that will be taken by careful consideration and that we could as much as possible to the public and the inhabitants of this country at the conclusion. But all of us are ready to fly to and from the country. We have to make sure of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u46	Mr. President. As I mentioned earlier, it is not a matter that anyone would have chosen to take care of, but the situation in society today is so difficult for many companies to deal with. Icelanders are systematically important companies, I don't think any one of them. What that means is something that we have talked about at the council for the past few years, and especially in the light of how the State is going to address both systems of important enterprises, but also help them when needed. To this end, I have not seen such Kingdom responsibilities very well, and I have to admit that my faith in that particular course of action was reduced to the answers that were here because only in one of five cases responded to the Supreme Court. The secretary of finance is asking a question. Senators with a direct answer, and that was in the case of a given moment. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur's son, Ágústsson, who certainly had a pretty good answer. But all the other cases needed answers, especially to my question of the stage. That's what matters when you're talking about the state responsibility of another tens of billions or so, about $18 million, because it's gonna be done in dollars. It is important that this has been investigated, and then the possibility of an examination must be considered. Keep in mind that our place at council, as well as in the government, is to make the best possible decisions for our country. This includes a clear evaluation of the interests that can mean that we are in the Elder's pontu and faddlers on whether or not an individual enterprise should go one way or another. In any case, we need to be able to discuss all our possibilities. And that is exactly why and because I had no particular hope of getting a good answer from the highest. In an effort to find out what possibilities were possible, the minister of finance made my body of members of Piranha his own stagemics on the case. The fact is, there is no boundless way. If you assume that there is some way that you have to deal with the upcoming conditions of Iclanders, there are very few ways to go. In fact, there are no good ways. It was one of three scenarios that stood out, and the first way the government has chosen to go was to give Kingdom responsibilities, which then has a bet that can be called if bankruptcy comes later. Remember, though, that even that pledge is built. on the labels of the company that are of some value, but they are not necessarily huge. Then there's an accounting system that really isn't about the program code, yes, it's worth something, but what's valuable in it is the data. There are valuables hidden in understanding the behavior of passengers who come to the country, but as has been discussed in recent weeks, the state of international flight studies is seen to be that all the data that all airlines have suddenly become meaningless because no one knows how passengers will behave now when Covid rules are running and the rules are changed even for a week in some countries. The data are worth less today than they were before. Then comes the third point, and there are a landing warrant or what has been called in English, by permission of President, ◯slots, which is not even available to deliver. There are examples of that, e.g. from Chicago last year, when a airline sold its landing clearances and was actually breaking down the landing warrants. It's probably to find out if they can be handed over, but there's uncertainty about it, apart from the fact that they may be less demand than they used to be. Another advantage of giving Kingdom responsibilities is that this route runs less than many other paths to Article 3. The EEA agreement and the ESA have certainly been approved for this, which is fine. The third possible option would be that if everything worked out, the government would get paid, except that this bill is exactly breaking out all the laws of state responsibility, and as a result, there is no risk fee. None of the defenders present in the stately responsibilities laws are made valid on this project in the same way that they did not apply to the Venetian parade project at their time, and I find that for myself the reason to refuse this, from whether you believe in your aim. On the contrary, taking laws about state responsibility from relationship every time, is very bad, and shows a willingness to commit a certain offense to the goal that was in that law to begin with. There are many who are affected by the Kingdom responsibilities. First of all, it's a risk to the public. The public is taking a certain risk on behalf of a company and is actually getting very small for and definitely not paying the risk. It might be said that this is an irresponsible use of public funds, as well as moral risks. It is setting up an example that if an enterprise is important enough, it can assume that the State will run for it. This sets a bad example and is also the classic CC-PP game, i.e. Personalization of future benefits, while nationalization of all the risks. Of course, in this context you are wondering if this would be discussed if political ties were not involved. Keep in mind, too, that the Kingdom is not a casual person on the market. By submitting to Kingdom responsibilities, the government is creating credibility for the company, and this is of course important for future financial contributions. However, at the same time: We believe enough in this company to give this responsibility, but we still allow the market to handle it somehow. It's pretended it's a clean marketing solution, which it's obviously not. They're coming into this with a state shift. Then what other methods are available. One option that I have discussed before is to buy a share money or to dilute the item, with pros and cons. That would be, for example. a great advantage if the company became less in debt after the end of the situation. This does not match the classic CC-PP risk. This means that the government could have a higher proportion of control options, which does not necessarily mean that it would be replaced, but it creates the possibility of creating a owner's policy for the company. This has the negative result of being classified as political too. There is also a risk that there will be some kind of, by permission of the president, the result of a situation where good money is thrown after bad, if the company is out of order. And, indeed, it is true. Secretary of finance mentioned earlier, that if there was no bankruptcy, there would be nothing to be left. But accounting and information and something similar would turn up. There's another choice. I'm not sure he's necessarily worse, I even think he might be better than giving state responsibility. I understand that people give different reasons, but at least we have to compare them together. I think the third way, which I briefly mentioned in the counter, could have been the best way, and it's certainly the most market route. It would be merely to leave the market to decide whether to believe in this company or not and not to interfere with it rather unless the company ran out of business and entered the same way that they entered the banks in 2008. There's a certain advantage, that would create a clean company with a flier stop and other things. There is no moral hazard in this way. There are no precedents that will develop with her. This is exactly what Iceland has been commended many times for having done in the case of banks. The road, however, is not flawless, such as. it would reduce the chance of reimbursement. But the hardest thing about this is that it takes months to get all the clearances from EATA, apart from the fact that the landing warrants, as I mentioned earlier, are not necessarily delivered. There are relationships and business relationships with all kinds of suppliers and other sources that would likely break in this case, and this would be rather difficult. I have to admit, I don't know what the right way is. It may be a nice way to get to the government, but I have not yet been convinced and unable to respond. Minister didn't help. But we'll have this conversation over the next few days. To the future, we should look only at the possibilities of Illelands. Iclanders are and have been a very busy business over the years, and it is remarkable that they have not needed church assistance for very long. It's been properly fired. Many traumas have occurred recently, Max's problem and these unusual conditions around the Covid etc. Of course, it is important for such countries as Iceland to have a good relationship and a good chance of getting out of the country. The company is highly located and is a link between Europe and America. Achieving more about what has been called long and narrow routes of flight is a development in the flying industry. This trend is certain to continue, which will change both Europe and America and may strengthen our situation in Iceland as an international site. The demand is going to increase, I believe, and there's some evidence that Icellands can become a very strong company if they survive this crisis. When you look at which airlines in the air industry have had difficulty in this crisis, there are a number of them, and quite a few, but very few have ended up in bankruptcy. Flybe is one of them and it was as if in technical bankruptcy prior to the start of the Covid epidemic. Aianca, in Colombia, too, was shocked, but she was just following her sister companions, and then the Italian - speaking airline, Alitala, may have been the most strange ruler of this kind. But in general, countries around the world have made credit lines or have just bought into airlines with new stocks. Of course, it is possible to compare the current situation with that of seeing what possibilities are open to them, but it requires that this field analysis have taken place and that there be a need for the council, as well as the general discussion of why one way is chosen above another. It's not much more complicated than that. I am not personally in position at this point to be able to recommend this or against this route or other means. I think it's a good thing that we're breaking the state guarantees off, and I think we should even let it go. Otherwise, we need to do something, and then we need to examine all possible ways and find the right way. I just hope we do it with as much honesty as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u47	A respectable president. In this case, only a small answer was given as to the options involved. In short, I think that we set our primary goals, and they helped to resolve the different options. Like what? A senator here has mentioned government funds that have been held by airlines. I have noted that it is remarkable in the case of Icellands that the Society had the potential to survive the incredible storms that have raged on this market during the past few months, even to this day. That is on its own, I would say, an accomplishment in international comparison, in which one large organization after another has been in total distress, and the states have stepped in one after the other, and this has often had to make decisions during the night or the next day. We've had months to prepare a decision. The Society has done an enormous amount of work, and I believe that of all the cases I've seen in neighboring countries, we have built a way that is much more likely to minimize the risk to the public than others have ever been able to do. It simply lies in place, and there is no need to investigate that the State's taking a part in the unions is the highest risk in general. It's all signed, and it's in the order behind everybody else. A share is what gets lost first. By directly borrowing machines, we too may be more likely than with the methodology we have developed here, in which we put it to the point that our partner saves himself on swimming in the sea before testing them, we have given it time and that it has been used well to what I think is important, to minimise the risks of government responsibility. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u48	Mr. President. Yes, that's fine, and I might be willing to buy them a reason to a certain extent. The problem is, we may not have been able to see why certain ways were rejected. I believe that as the highest. Minister says, but I need to see the data. I need to see the reasoning, not just hear a few things listed in a speaker's hand. That would make everything much more trustworthy. Later on, that is, the highest. A minister was saying that it would be even more credible if it wasn't to cut off all the nails that are under the laws of state responsibility. These defenses were not created by chance. This, of course, is based on knowledge of how government responsibilities have gone astray over the years and how to deal with their failures. We don't want to do that again We want to do this well, no matter what we end up doing Isn't that true?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u49	A respectable president. I still miss the fact that men are referring to the State responsibilities that would have been of use in this case. What kind of process is written into the laws we don't put into practice here?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u50	Risk charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u51	The State responsibilities committee was set up under the law of men in that process. In this case, this committee would undergo a complete double act. In effect, she would be going to work for us at work that we have assigned to financial experts at Delotte's place to work for us. We've done it for food, put it before the council, and offered a conversation with our experts in this subject. We have a bill here. Hence, it is in the State Accounting Act to reduce the burden of Kingdom responsibilities so that, in fact, people pay for the advantage, the benefits that result from their State responsibility, and by paying the tribute, they take back part of the benefits of the Kingdom responsibility so that the responsibility will give them where they are trying to reach out but will not remain behind the lender himself. I'd like to mean that by the implementation of the fee we've been on here, we're doing the right thing. We enter in the same principle of responsibility as the law is discussed, but in other respects, it is basically in the nature of the operation that we choose a lower risk route. The most dangerous way is simply to send part money into the company. There is also a more risky way to extend a loan to a bone. [[The president calls.]] There's a more risky way. Then you can ask yourself, " What is the risk of doing nothing? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u52	Mr. President. Yeah, that's a good question. What is the danger of national gain because of doing nothing? Of course, she has to answer. I don't think there are many questions left in this discussion. I'm not necessarily convinced that this is the most chosen risk approach, in part because I haven't been able to see the data. Pirata's team has accepted an invitation to meet with this expert group. True, I don't understand why you can't use the processes that have been placed in the law and why the law has to be decontaminated and found some other experts who might be more suitable. But okay. Finally, I find it important to say that I want Icelands well. I want us to end up with a good and powerful airline that can carry people to and from the country as well as possible. But I think it's important in all of this that we put all our feelings aside, look at things as cold as possible, and do what's right from the available data. So, of course, I'm asking that the evidence be available.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u53	Mr. President. I think this matter is quite complicated, as the debate today shows, because I think most members of the council are concerned about the interests of the public when it comes to transport between Iceland and the rest of the world, how important they are and how important the role of Icelanda has played in them. Icelands have been responsible for 66% of transport to Iceland at least every season. It's quite undisputed in my mind that Icellands is a so-called systematicly important company. That definition is available. They're not like any other company. There are compelling reasons in my opinion especially for such companies with assistance, especially in times such as these. We see Iceland is going through its deepest recession for 100 years and we see that tourism, one of Iceland's major industry, is going to be a major blow. Clearly, Icelanders are a burden in Icelandic tourism. Therefore, I feel completely justified that the State will come in one way or another to help Icelanda. Of course, there are certain conditions and equalities, and so on, but what I consider most important is to ensure the best interests of the public in the first place, and the interests of the staff. I'm not particularly concerned with the interests of shareholders in this regard, but I think, in this case, that they should be diluted into almost nothing of which is true. It is interesting, however, to recall that the market value of Icelanda was at the highest of 180 billion, to me. Imagine, 180 billion marketed for Iccelanda at some point, but it has now reached 5 to 6 billion. It is interesting to wonder how much of the pension fund that is large in terms of property in Icellands has lost on this investment. But there is another discussion. Of course, the pension fund is taking care of our money, and they need to be careful when it comes to all investments, especially when it comes to such large amounts of money. However, they are likely to have limited domestics in this regard, and there is no such thing as any for the world's economic situation with the appearance of the virus. But we've saved companies before. We restored the domestic banks in their time after the collapse of the bank. We define the Icelandic banks as a lifeline in the financial world, and Icelanda is a very important means of transportation, whether it is viewed as transport or products. I'm not saying that Icellands is the only company in the world that can guarantee transportation, of course not, but the situation is that Icellands is there. Iclanders are based on man - made resources, experience, and certain brands that we need only to look to. That's what I care about, saving valuables, securing transportation. I wonder, because there are no small amounts of money involved, that we have become a little blind to the amount of money we talk about in this room because this is 15 billion federal guarantee loans they can draw if necessary. Fifteen billion are quite high, and I could in my counterministry earlier today that this amount was higher than all the child damages, just to add that number in a context. It's important. It's a big amount. And when you lend, it's important that you secure your loan, bet. Well, it wasn't my favorite song in law, but then you could see very well how important it is to be safe and sound. That is why I published this non-long review in particular from the Federal Reconcommunication, which is one of the two institutions of the General Assembly, not the Minister, where a Federal Reconception, specifically suggests that the guarantees listed here are very unlikely, the brand, the accounting system and two landing sites, and the potential losses if the worst happens. No one hopes for it. And of course, we hope that Icelands will correct the cow, and I have believed that they will, especially at the time of the vaccine. But this is something we need to consider. We need to examine and analyze the concern of Kingdom Accounting in this regard. She ponders over other possibilities in the situation and says here, by permission of the president: ▪ Another possibility in the situation would be that a government fund would become a share if responsibility was taken or would simply take over with the intention of eventually finding potential owners. It is a question of whether to examine this route if the bets fail to work. Of course, only the company is in serious trouble. But we need to stay below us, for we are taking care of public interest and tax money, which everyone knows is not beyond our limits. There's some speculation I know that a budget will probably discuss with one another. It's complicated. We'd like to secure a strong airline, we'd like to consider staff and public interest, but we also need to consider the interests of the taxpayers. We know that these people are in town to start an airline. They are concerned about the competition. That is something that we have already begun to look at at at the scene of the legal committee. We know that this may well affect the market in this regard, at least In the opinion of the parties involved in this airline, we need only to consider how we deal with it, for of course this need to ensure equality. There are also other factors I would like to draw out. I'm glad that one of the conditions of the loan is that it is not paid for and that the Society must not buy a letter in itself, which is one way to bring money from a partner to shareholders, it's a good thing. But I see no conditions to ensure that society's rulers cannot pay them skyscrapers or super-employment. That is why I wondered, " Has a minister taken a look at it in any way, because there is a discussion we've already taken in the past to help the government with companies? ' But it didn't seem like that to me. Of course, we also need to make clear who owns the company. I know that the pensions are there and there's some kind of cash in there, the investment fund, PARtic Management. At the same time, we need to know who is entering the company in the auction. What kind of partner are we going to borrow or lend a loan line, or what do we call it? We need to know who we're getting. And, of course, you need to pay close attention to how this campaign works. But I'd like to finally condemn the behavior of the club regarding a fight with Iceland's stewardry. I think most people -- I don't know it, but at least I was shocked by the conduct the Society showed toward this key class in his operation. It was just a total mess, if I speak pure Icelandic from this hall, how society's leader acted against this key class, and I want to condemn it. This is just not how people do, as they were careful when it came to dealing with the stewardesses. I hope many senators can agree with that. But in the end, I can make such a traditional complaint that we don't get much time to look at big issues. It's due, as I understand it, on this so-called senator. It's a big deal. The Ministry claims that it had been examined all summer. We're looking at this today, and we've got a few days to do it. There's no need to keep the council out of this for so long. This isn't some sort of political thing, no one's going into some sort of stereochrome shoot-hole in this regard, and I want to have most of the Covid business so we can work something together. I mean, honestly, I think they'd actually get better if Ministers would let more people in the past when it comes to such a big deal, there'd be more peace with it, and maybe they'd just get better. Finally, I think the state has a significant role when it comes to helping the private enterprise, a private member of the market that's going to get into trouble. I think our regular recessions, as horrible as they are, show that the best system is a mixed economy. We want the personal enterprise to be enjoyed, but in the same way, the public has an important role. We see that unregistered capitalism in good will not be good, it creates inequities, inequities, pollution, and so forth. But unregistered capitalism in a crisis is not working either, for it calls for government assistance because of the damage it will otherwise bring. The United States and the ever-populars of the world favor a so-called mixed economy in which the government is under attack during a time of crisis, and then we can stand back in good order. I think it's the North American way that many Icelanders believe, and we just see that rich communities are more and less involved in such economy and the factors we expect the state to have there. But by the way, Mr. President, I look forward to this work on the area of the budget and to hear more views on the main issues of opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u54	A respectable president. We are dealing with the government's loan line of 15 billion to Icellands. I have to say, as it is, if Iclands succeed in reaching the resources of exports needed to keep the company floating, I, as the situation is today, will support the situation as it is stated. We have to look at the complete package. Icelanders have been building over a very long period of time and have come up with a tremendous number of air traffic experiences. It's not possible that we can just get on a plane and land where we have to go in Europe, and if you're not going to that pay, there's a very short distance to go. This has been based on an incredible amount of time. I think we'd be in some really bad shit if this airline went completely nuts. It would take us an enormous amount of time to rebuild. It seems to me there's an incredible number of defences inside this thing. What I was worried about was that it's 15 billion from the state, and then it's up to the banks, Landsbani and Iceland Bank to lend as well. However, it is stated that when the holdings of the enterprise are covered by 8%, certain pathways are closed, with a cut-off of 13.3% according to a budget. They're trying to keep things going wrong here. It has to be said at the moment that the airline went off a bit bad and only fired itself in the leg with the incident of stewardess. The saddest part of all this was how they stayed there. I'm thinking they must chew themselves on the back of their hands right now. That controversy is not over and was a very unfortunate incident. You don't know what that'll do, whether it will affect an invitation or not. There's another bad thing in this situation, as it did in the past. paritaprevir Ágústsson Áugusson's guru, the value of the club, is estimated to be between 180 billion and 6◯7 billion. This union has been around for a very long time, and there's the loss of the pension fund. And who are the losers? Yes, there are ordinary people, working people, who have their money in the pensions. But there is always the question of how much profit has been made at all this time. Of course, these things need to go together. We also know that we have given similar responsibilities in connection with the Vella-Lowway, where there was a certain loan or risk, and much of it ended in the state. Well, I haven't made it through this Venal Hall yet. I had a chance to do it for the summer, but I did it deliberately to pass them. Because I know them, I could pass them. I was referred to Grenivik, but I was on my way to Húsavík. If I had been a foreigner and I hadn't known, I would never have passed a guard tunnel, I would have passed through them, for there the dart pointed to Húsavík. People are just being misled. It shows that this is a bit of a problem, that we should let ourselves do this, I don't know if it's in order to save this government contribution or for some other reason, but it's being wronged by people and trying to get them to go to the tunnel. I understand that most people want to use the tunnel in winters and when the weather is bad. But it was only the best weather, so it was wonderful to go the other way. But I was one of the few that took her, most of them went through the tunnel. I'm sure every foreigner will, unless he doesn't go out in Svalbard or the other way. We may be at great risk of everything going wrong, but we don't know anything. There can be volcanic eruptions, there can be another plague. The risk is always present for air traffic. We must also appreciate the high risk of letting the airline cross over. It must be some sort of thing, but I hope it works for the Society to get all those billions it needs. Here's the word, Mr. President's permission: With the aforementioned budget of financing, the Society will fully expect a budget (258 million dollars) for the next 24 months of free money (150 million dollars) and raise money for new shares (147 million dollars), a total of nearly 297 million dollars. I understand it's about 45 billion, so it's a huge amount of money. Then the banks come into this, 52 million dollars, then another loan line, $120 million, from the state, of which there is clearly 108 million, and the other goes to the banks. As I said before, the need for money seems to be around 60 billion. As a result, the proportion of the state in itself is only 25%, and it does not come in unless all the rest is gone. I hope it tells us that the risk is relatively low.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u55	Mr. President. We will discuss how the Kingdom will come to give the Kingdom responsibility to Icelanda. Of course, it's a big, big case that matters in many contexts for an Icelandic community. As here has been attributed and repeated in this discussion and reviewed, Icelanda is a systematicly important company. We all know that it is important to live on an island far from other countries that transportation, including the longest, safe, safe, and safe. That's, of course, even. Because of what we are discussing here at the General Assembly of the State on this matter. I think it's the best way. A government proposes that good things are gone because it is being done with the interests of the public in the country. The route that has gone means it's the club itself and the owners of the person who has to start by making sure that there's money in the business, including by going to the stock market and thus increasing the share. This is of utmost importance, that there is a basis for Kingdom responsibilities to be possible. This is not only what needs to be met but also requirements to be given Kingdom responsibilities. It is very important that these requirements are publicized, available on the board of directors' website. That's where even the two of them come from. to see the company's headquarters and flight drivers in Iceland, that their stocks will be registered in Copenhagen and meet all the laws and regulations for publication on the information on the survival and operation and that loans are forbidden to pay off interest, reduce stocks, or buy their own items or to do anything that involves the financial or property of the company as a means of managing shareholders or related organisations. Of course, such things are of enormous importance when the time comes for the State to become responsible for a private company. As I said before, there's a way here that makes a capitalite team, which makes the investors, who make the private partners, contribute to the funding needed for society's business plans. To this end, the State is prepared to offer support in that form, if necessary, that Kingdom responsibility be obtained. To me, the interests of the public in the country are guaranteed by this convention, just because the State is last involved in society and will also be the first party out. Comments on the budget law show that public funds and the risks of the State will be limited to those serving public interests, i.e. to ensure flights to and from the land, but not to protect the interests of shareholders or creditors. To me, this is exactly the key to the situation. That's why I like the way that's going around here. I can't think of another way that would be better. Now it's going to be a problem. Of course, the legislature board and there we'll have guests and we'll review views. But I believe that this is an important matter that is being proposed to support the public, and that is why it is important in these difficult times, during these unexpected moments, as a community and, in fact, all other countries are facing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u56	A respectable president. Now, on a budget panel, we have received a presentation of the position, the presentation of the results of Deloitte report prepared for the Ministry. It wasn't too much, it was mostly two charts showing how things would get a little worse, but something worse, etc., and how it would still be the stage shots the Icelands put on. As little as possible is expected from the government. Great, all right. That means two things, and based on the evidence that comes from Deloitte, it seems that there's really no more to it, there's a good situation, there's good plans, and there's much to be done to make them fail, and that they need to take on state responsibility. In fact, I have a simple question regarding this matter: Why does the State usually have to bring Kingdom responsibility to these matters before the stock market is made? Is it that the stock market is more likely to succeed? If so, why didn't we get answers to those questions when we suggested them at this meeting, that was a question asked, but there was no diagnostic analysis. I wondered if this is really the government's reliable statement on the quality estimates of Icelanda or whether the situation is really bad that the State is afraid to take any more reliable steps in that direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u57	Mr. President. I think that there is really no one other than those who participate in the stock market judging whether plans are considered more likely to follow up eventually. I believe that's where the criteria go whether this is considered a promising bisism model. However, I believe that the Society has done an enormous amount of good work and has made a good account of its business in preparation for this stock market. But that doesn't change what's been happening many times, and I told you before, our union is important to us, i.e. It's important we have a secure flight to this country. Hence, it is important to have a successful business here, which is why, of course, things are going well. But at the same time, we must think of how we can make that requirement, because we are working with the public's money at the time of the state's responsibility, that it is the capital owners responsible for bringing in funding to the company.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u58	A respectable president. Hv. A senator says that no one else can evaluate this except those who participate in the stock market. Yet, we are here to determine the Kingdom responsibility of 16 billion. I scratch my head and want to know if you can achieve the same goals, safe flight routes, and connections to and from the country, for 16 billion in some other way. The meeting also asked what other forms were involved. The Ministry of Economics said that they're going to get all the evidence on the matter, and I'm looking forward to seeing it and how it's going to work on the Committee to do it. My experience in this regard, though, is not tremendously good. Every time I ask for all the evidence, they don't come, or if all the evidence is there, we're in worse cases than I had thought. Building a decision on so little data would be of great value in the matters that I discussed, in financial terms, in financial planning, etc. for this reason. But here we are in this council hall to make a decision for the amount of $16 billion. If we make such a decision, we will be blind as a matter of course. A senator points to the fact that those who can make this decision are those who participate in the stock market, I wonder if we are not on a bit wrong with the executives if this information is not available to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u59	V.E.G. President. Of course, the idea and purpose are not that these Kingdom responsibilities need to be carried out. It's only thought - provoking, so hopefully, if things work out for the company, then government funds don't have to contribute money for this state responsibility. That, of course, is what I hope to do. I can't tell which other way to get less money, because of it. A senator asked if there could be any other way to go for less money than this 16 billion, as the full state responsibility would be if all of it was handled, but the goal is that the government does not have to contribute to financial resources but is that Kingdom responsibility is there for disaster if the rest fails.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u60	A respectable president. It's a big, big deal, and I've indulged in the fact that the state's responsibility is never self-important. And since we speak of responsibilities, much responsibility is given to members of Congress to study the matter and especially to the government that has had nothing to do with this matter. It was revealed at a meeting, and I want to thank you especially for that meeting. He was following a bunch of bosses this week. At that meeting, I specifically asked that we be introduced to other stage photos, that we be able to see the scene. The conference was then announced for presidents and representatives of a financial committee that was good, but we were not allowed to see the other forms that the Ministry told us they had worked with. So I assume, as the Ministry announced at the meeting, that the scenarios and criteria will be sent to a budget board and to a business committee. But it also came to the meeting that the Ministry and the Government had been having a deep and deep conversation with Icelanda, natural, there is nothing hard to believe about. Hence, it is also reasonable that the council will allow more time than a few days to review the grounds, reasons, and preparation for the establishment of Kingdom responsibilities. Of course, certain questions arise as soon as we have to remember, and I want to agree with what has come in here, that Icelands is a very important organization, systematicly important. I'd like to join that definition, and like it, I'll come to that later, after the government decided to shut down the real country. Then the airline is even more important to us. It is important that we ensure that our foundations for and from the country, that there will be reliable and somewhat unsurpassed transport in these times, as well as that we can start building something for the future, that we give companies, not only in travel services, but also innovations, brands, or exports, an opportunity to organize ourselves. However, we are blessed to be free of charge in business with foreign countries. The meeting itself was informative. I thought it mattered to me what Iclands placed for us as well as for Deloitte and the diagnostics that came out there. It was very important to have the views that the companies raised regarding the situation and the possibilities ahead and how they saw the future in this otherwise highly variable and unstable flying world today. So here are some comments I would like to make. I listened even. in a talk by the prime minister. I listened to a board of directors earlier, and there was no proper argument in my opinion, not yet, which tells me why they are being changed from the rules of state responsibility. That law contains a firm arrangement. There is no need to state what is in the law that we need to achieve, much more so than to reveal what the government's route offers, what it is trying to shun. Because it involves using formalities and regulations, especially by being careful about the public interests of the country through its formalities. So we need to have rich and much clearer reasons in my opinion to change from formalities, and the committee will definitely review why the laws on State responsibilities have been turned aside. So far it has not been good for us to abandon those rules. We need this time so that the Council not only works as a stamp on the government. And according to the way the government is put together, it is important to be careful and ask questions. This includes democracy, and this includes a lawsuit that guarantees public interest, so that I can also go into the middle of my district and say, if necessary, why we support the State responsibilities or why we don't. That's why more data is needed. It is something that the government must start to develop, to give more insight into why these momentous decisions are being made. The Kingdom responsibility includes the giving of it to the overall agreement. There may be a reason for this. But I would like to direct it to the Commission and the government to take special care of it, and preferably to specify on some terms, that the loan line is designed to ensure the airline and the airline, but not that it is new to improve the position of other partners, other management units within the kit. It can't happen. Then we're rocking the boat when it comes to competitiveness. I don't like it very much if we have any kind of trouble with the idea that eventually the loan line will be new to Cabo Verde's Air Force - there are many units inside the kit; there are the air routes of Cabo Verde, that's Iceland Travel. There are many who are competing with other fine companies and other travel agencies within the company, although they may be shrinking, there are still some. The committee and members of the committee need to consider competitive titles. The committee also needs to be very careful about comments made by the National Reexamination Board, as we have seen. In fact, a decision to establish these opinions and our concerns regarding uncertainty is being made. Certainly, if there is any certainty in the uncertainty, we can never tell exactly about the situation as it is or will be. But we have to try to do as much as we can, once again in the interests of public interest, to explain to people why we're going this way or the other way. To this end, I feel that this is missing, although I have to say that much has been improved since the very beginning of the case, and I have no doubt that it will remain in the budget under the safe leadership of the Chairman. These are my comments and tips. I want to agree with what has also been said, and it doesn't have anything to do with the state responsibility, however, that it has something to do with the way the state wants to deal with companies and societies when it comes to the state's responsibility. I'm not going to have an opinion of what flight attendants' demands of their time, and then I'll come back to a fight. I understand that the executives of the company were under great pressure to save the company and that the tension was intense. But I'm going to have an opinion that I didn't think it was proper how leading people in the company themselves were about stewardess. It's said in the best of kindness. This is something that society's leaders need to realize. At least part of Congress, at least. In the state of the government, this is exactly what worries them. I have not heard of these concerns on the part of the government, not on the part of the government's leadership party, but these are my concerns and I hear that other groups of government opposition agree with me, at least. As far as the Union and the Piratars are concerned, it's not good if there's a bomb up that labour market model without a debate about how the deal is made when there's a conflict between employers and unions. This is not the time to blow up that arrangement. I've heard financial ministers, and I've heard members of the government, including. Senators of the left green, they say: Yes, it's fine, because it's the private people who take the most risk. The biggest risk is with privates. Fine. In itself, I can agree with that. But who are the ones with more than half the Icellands? It's the pension fund. You can't talk about the pension fund, which is actually the custodian of social capital, and say, "These are private people who can just take the risk, not with the point of what has been pointed out, that Iceland is the only country in Europe that had to resort to currency, and was assigned to a pension fund. Pension funds are thus forced to participate in such an invitation. This, of course, underscores the weaknesses of the crown. I'm not going to go into that song much, but all of this makes sense. I'd especially like to point to Icelland's investment presentation because it was very clear on the part of Icellands that the most important risk factor in the investment event was who? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That was the most important risk factor in Icelland's investment presentation. When you put it together, and when you look at the status of pension funds that don't have a rich garden to pay for now when it comes to investments, how to manage the public budget, we'll have to let us ask questions, because it's true that the public's risk is twofold in this matter. That's why we have to dig deep into everything. The risk of public life lies in the state of responsibility, where taxpayers may have to carry the burdens, but also the public employees, those paying for a pension fund. They're also at high risk there. That is why we need to be careful about this. I believe that it will be done as long as people are willing to share information and take the conversation. In the past, I was able to believe that the government's decision to close the country would have led to the fact that Icelands is more and more systematicly important to us Icelanders than ever before. Yes, I agree with the secretary of finance that we have an enormously short and long - term application in our country. Tourism begins again, just because it's the way the environment is, the wholesome nature, our culture. And now that we're closed to the United States, and we've actually just got the flight plan Iceland's European, Europe, the country, we're not at first in my opinion, it may be wrong, for other airlines when the risk is that the government can suddenly take a turn and close the country and say, "Well, we shut up, but maybe after two weeks or maybe after three weeks, and then there are others who say that this country will be that way for a month. This is the uncertainty that the government itself has taken to shape and create. Therefore, it is more likely than enough to remind us that it is wise to support this systematicly important enterprise, Iclanders, based on the evidence, but especially on what knowledge is in the company and what experience and what human resources live within the company. In my opinion, a major factor is that we look into the matter even deeper and deeper, as the situation is now. Besides, at Wesfjörður we have emphasized the need to provide companies with the opportunity to be in a house, to be ready when the opportunities come, when this starts again. I think it matters when we see that a vaccine may be ready from New Year's then we'll be here with a large, powerful, experienced airline. We must be ready to go on the second or third or fourth wave of tourism. However, we in our government need to ask questions, and of course we hope to be answered.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u61	President. Thank you. A senator's fine talk and for asking many questions that need to be asked and answered. I can't afford to ask you why. A member of the council asked certain questions because she was told of the transformation, as it calls it, which occurred when the government decided to shut the land down. In that case, five of the nine are likely to be referred to in the Surgeon's memo to the government on how to handle the border. I just want to ask you what. A senator: Is she against it? Which way does it go? A senator goes around the border? Is it one of the other methods proposed by a psychiatrist? Or how does it want to be? A senator take the border?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u62	Mr. President. I notice that it is not merely a prime minister who feels uncomfortable talking about corrosion; it has been infected by a council of the left greens. Yes, it is, in my opinion, cowering that the opening was over the summer. We asked about stage photos. We asked about a plan and got no answers, not at the opening of the summer. If the senator hadn't noticed, then the government took it for granted. A senator supports a political decision not to consult. Then we must ask questions. We've got the data we need. A senator and a government? No. Have we had the opportunity to make and build stage photos? No. On the other hand, I would have considered it to be more successful in increasing my solidarity, and I restituting it: The foundation is a precious motor force to push society back on, to create some valuable thing, to continue. But the government decided to do something different. I'm not gonna appreciate it here and now where it should be. I would've wanted an explanation. Why was this transformation taken? This doesn't necessarily come from me. Should we talk to executives in companies? Shall we speak to members of the House of Government, read, the Independence Party? Should we talk about a government minister who basically draws it out with his memo if it is to be spelld into us who are trying to read it? The preparation for the decision was inadequate. I need an analysis, dot. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u63	President. Biscuit, on my death, I had hoped, not this phrase. I was sincerely wondering, where it was. A senator has been talking about the closing of a border, no matter what. A senator would be at that close. The previous study has been publicized for two weeks. We've all been able to look into it and think about it and talk to people. I'm saying that this route was the most reasonable of the nine proposed psychiatrists. I've heard nothing about him but that he was pleased with that way. The question is extremely simple and does not focus on the field - of - field analysis or the alleged lack of consultation. Who thinks so? Senator to be the right way to the border? Counts 'em out. A senator that the way he has gone is wrong now?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u64	Mr. President. This government and its supporters here at the council have succeeded in disrupting the solidarity of the triennial public defenses with the nation. What's the problem? From the trident, it was always clear where they were going and why. The decisions were difficult, but people can make difficult, difficult decisions as long as they explain why a certain route is gone and they make the tridently. Then we release our public defense trident and the decision goes to the government. Do you want me to mention the failure to communicate with the Icelandic genetic analysis of diagnosis and screening? You want me to mention it? When the government gets it to him, there'll be some murder. It is all right to tell people that we have to make difficult decisions that will lead to something else. We didn't get that information, not for jobs, not for cultures, not for artists. As a result, we see a problem between social groups because the government did not explain adequately where it was going, with its methods and ways. During our restoration, we have supported more and less everything that has come from the government and might even have had more to do with it. We've come to, we've helped, we've fixed. But when we ask questions, it's not only that it was a political consultation but it's to turn over our questions to the government. We still do not have the answer to the primary analysis. A travel minister asked for and why. [[Up front.]] What analysis was available, and what economic and social consequences were there? What message are you planning to send to Southnes who are struggling with aging unemployment? What will be the result for them? [[The president calls.]] What are the consequences for artists? That was not explained in the summer when we opened the door, nor was it now when we closed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It was a good sign of an eight - or - nine suggestion made by a psychiatrist to suggest that the politics are also aware of their responsibilities. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u65	The president asks why. A senator's time limit is due.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u66	V.E.G. President. His talk presented some difficulty. A senator's only accession of bill to a law that we're discussing here as well, about a change in state responsibility law. There is a new provisional principle that the law does not apply to responsibilities as a government fund is permitted to submit to the Illellanda Group. It will be discussed in the report that the laws on Kingdom responsibilities as they are not particularly fitting in this way, since the law is primarily thought of when it is being given Kingdom responsibility for certain new projects or projects. It also adds that because of the provisional principle, the conditions and terms of responsibility on the part of the State were customized into society and the unprecedented conditions of the economy because of the pandemic. I'll take a hint. A senator's need for the law to be taken as seriously. That's why I want to ask, because I think it's important to work anyway. Qualifications: What are they in the laws on the state of responsibilities? A senator believes that we should keep our eyes on things that are not specifically addressed in the conditions?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this question. I say, if this is in the terms of the terms, why can't you apply the law? That's what I'm wondering. Second, I cannot help but say that once we haven't received all the information that the government's members have to control, all the way to the government - it seems to me that the members of the board are sometimes as much in the dark as we are at the front of the board - I am careful to do so if a law has to be cut off from the law of government, to what it is doing at any time, and it needs to be reasoned. It may well be shown better by the committee. I don't think it's clear enough about the bill, so I think it's worth a little more than the committee's going through it, because experience shows that for those times that these laws have been cut off, it hasn't been very well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u68	V.E.G. President. I find it extremely important to keep it in place that here we are talking about the setting of custom conditions for giving Kingdom responsibilities. How important it must be when Kingdom responsibilities are being given because of circumstances and social factors that in general do not receive Kingdom responsibility in the state! We are not talking about unique projects or new projects. That's why I have to say here that I think it really matters that it was written right into the terms in which it is even referred to as how the growth rate changes according to how the loan lines are pulled. It must matter to the State that it is tailored to the implementation of the Kingdom responsibility how to pay it back. If that means that the general rules don't apply, I'd think more is involved in having custom actions and plans based on this particular state responsibility rather than on the general structure of other projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u69	Mr. President. If it's possible to prove that this method guarantees a public interest, it's good. However, laws on Kingdom responsibilities approved at the time do not spring from voids. One of the reasons why they were put here was that a government responsibility was given to a private company. That was even. The root. Hence, there must be a condition in the law of state responsibility, which is precisely appropriate for granting government rights when it comes to tithing. I know why. A senator is a member of the budget board. I just want to make it very clear to the members of the board to review this point, because the formalities are consistent. In keeping with that, there's more security for the public, and that's what I'm saying. If you can convince me that this path is safer and better for public good, it's good, but I just have more doubts. Wait a minute. A senator is forgiving myself that I have my doubts when it comes to selecting solutions for business, economically important enterprises, valuable companies, with these categories we have in the administration and the experiences we have with the government during this ideal period.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u70	Mr. President. It's not every day that the Council is given a national responsibility for a private company. It is, in fact, extremely rare, and when it has happened, it has led to a heated dispute, such as when the state of state responsibility for the company deCODE came to the council, like two members of the council who were then members of the council and are still here must remember. Similarly, Kingdom responsibility in connection with the very business of implementing the National Resurrection to one foreign company caused a great controversy both in the World Parliament and in the Icelandic community, such as the president of Congress and others, to be well remembered. Now, we are elected representatives to include the state guarantee of loan line to the private company of Illelands Group, which can study up to 108 million dollars. It is clear that in addition to allowing the council to fulfill their Kingdom responsibilities, the laws of state responsibilities need to be changed, showing the weight and severity of the matter. Thus, even if the chairman of Icelanda's committee has made a quick, reliable decision in presentation of the case that it is urgent that the therapy of the matter be made. The director for information is also extremely urgent and needs the Congress and elected representatives to give themselves the time needed to handle the crisis successfully, even if he and the company's members are on the move. This is a government responsibility for public funds for a private company, so respect is needed. Mr. President. Speaking of the careful treatment, I believe there are several uncertainty issues in the case that I believe are worth calling attention to in the hope that members of the panels will take the time to discuss them professionally and receive a clear answer. First, there is uncertainty about the final amount of the state guarantee on the loan line that is in the U.S., but is not given or conditional in Icelandic dollars. It must raise questions about government risk. Second, the fact that the state responsibility is on the loan line for the entire kit rather than just the airline itself, so that we elected agents would really not be accepting the state responsibility for the national and systematic important airline but also on a loan line to the Icelandandas Hotel chain, owned by Icelanda Group, and know the travel agency and other subsidies of the kit. How this is compatible with the natural competitiveness of other hotel chains and travel agencies is not sufficiently explained to me and needed to explain more. Third, what happens if the September stock tenders don't work? What if only part of the goal next? That's not a test of the state's responsibilities, said the highest. Secretary of finance earlier on the counter. But what? So, what's plan B? This would have to be explained better. Perhaps it is some kind of confidential information that is not yet time to report. However, we need elected representatives on this matter here to feel that there is some plan B, especially since the key to the establishment of the state is, of course, that we can get a new amount of money in the company's stock tenders in Septemberk. Or ask yourself, " If it fails, is it in the pipes to prepare for another State's approach or what? ' Fourth, if everything goes the wrong way, it is the insurance policy for the recovery of the state's responsibilities. In a hurry, there are the guarantees of the company's brand - name, its website, and its landing warrants at two destinations, not worth $15 billion. In fact, these assets in the bill need a proper price assessment. In fact, The State Retrospective points to this point in his comments sent today. It says that it is highly unlikely that they will meet requirements that meet up to 15 billion Kingdom responsibilities. I was confident that members of the budget committee would ask these questions and answer these questions to explain and respond to them and, of course, ask further questions that need to be asked and received clear answers. Mr. President. During the incredible world times we've been living since spring, governments around the world have had to deal with the major problems of tourism and airlines because of Covid-19. And what have governments in many parts of Europe done? Yes, they've lent airlines directly, accepted the state responsibility of financial institutions for them, or gone into action that is obvious. The secretary of finance and his squad are extremely shy and opposed, even shyer and more opposed than the sisters'groups of European finance ministers, who are investing in an airline or adding their share in it, even temporarily. There is no reason for me to know to be shy in this way, for that is the way you see in these days that there is no room for any new-free or political shyness when it comes to government exchange by big and national important companies like Icelanda. But that is where politics infiltrate and political decisions and ideologies. An example of clear measures by European governments to support airlines is when the French and Dutch governments put about 10 billion euro in their national assistance to the Air France◯KLM airline for the April/Mamiin date, due to the economic impact of the Korean virus on the fly sector and gained a total of 28% share in the airline. How did the French government and the Dutch government do this? Yes, the French government approved a 7 billion savings package, composed of a mixture of direct loans and state responsibility for loans for the airline, while the Dutch Governments mortgaged up to 4 billion euros to assist the airline. There were clear conditions both on the part of the French government and on the Dutch for the welfare of the State, including those of the French government. that, by permission of the President, the environmentally fittest airline on earth will become the environmentally fittest by adding the current commitment to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 50% in 2024. There was also a clear demand to reduce the government's pay costs and not to be paid any money but also to be a member of a government in which business decisions are made. As a result, representatives of the French and Dutch government and as a public influence on how the exercise of the airline will become even more public money in the budget. This is how the government of French liberal middleman Emmanuel Macrons and the conservative right man Marks Ruttes is Ruttes. And Germany's government, the right Christian Democrat Angela Merkel, decided to assist the state of Lufthansa at 9 billion euro and the fact that the German government has a 20% share in the union and a denial of society's government. Mr. President. I'd rather have seen this route in the bill on government support to the private company of Icellands, that the Icelandic government was more involved in the Icelands airline to ensure that the state of State responsibility follows a clearer responsibility for the company and that the government can further ensure that the State of State responsibility is spent on action that benefits the public and the public money are spent on business measures and decisions. A public representative is there in a government to influence these decisions, but more so that the public can share in the financial gain of the company at the time. Not just putting enormous sums of public money, loans made to a private company, which are adding to the economic resources that the government has made possible, and Icelands has been the largest individual user. We see that this bill does not provide very strict conditions for the 15 billion national responsibilities, just general expressions that, by permission of presidents,... the public funds and risks of the State will be limited to those who serve public interests, but will not aim to protect the interests of shareholders. This is not explained further in the bill. Iclanders themselves decided to reduce their pay expenses, which are excellent, but there is absolutely no requirement for green and climate-friendly conditions for the national responsibility on the loan line or that the company's managers conduct themselves in accordance with Icelandic work rights laws, something that should, of course, not have to be set as conditions in the Icelandic Law Review Guidebook, where firms in Iceland need to submit to Icelandic labour laws. In this case, there is, unfortunately, full reason and more than that, when considering the unsurpassed behavior of the Iceldir executives in front of the stewardess and their flight attendants, the conduct that will follow in the Icelandic labour market and mark its contacts with the people they are dealing with, and it is less likely to mark the interaction between the Icelanda and its managers. State strength in the form of state guarantees of a loan line without any formal requirements and conditions are in my opinion not the best way in this situation. When members of Congress and Ministers readily speak of the solution to a state airline, as if it were the worst thing that would happen, I ask, " Is that not all right? ' Is it so bad that the United States has more of a airline? The Finnish government owns 55.8% of the Finders, a well-runned and valuable airline, or the New Zealand Air Organization for 52% of the stock is owned by the New Zealand State, or the temporary share of French, Dutch, and German governments in local airlines. The temporary item of the Icelandic government in an airline that deals with an enormously difficult situation that the Icelandic state could sell when the company hopefully gets up again, is not a very bad idea, as many have claimed, on the contrary. Whatever for a state that is on an island of the north in the prom sea, who is counting on flying in contact with the outside world. Just in view of the national importance of the airline because of the geographical conditions of Iceland, it is a fear that the state is a part of national interest and, in fact, critical in my opinion. Mr. President. It is clear that Icellands is a systematicly important company for Iceland but also important national security because of our geographic range and smallness. A job related to Ictelland's activities runs on hundreds of direct and direct jobs can be counted in thousands. Thus, it is in the best interests of the government to provide support at these times, and the company's staged presentation of data is found to be practical, and contracts that have been made to various demands are considered to improve the financial status of the company and make a significant increase in the possibility that they will be able to sell the new stock. It is of utmost importance that these decisions are made and implemented by the public and the environment's interests and the lines become clearer to responsible moral practices for the benefit of the employees and employees but are not intended solely for the shareholders. If the government is going to help this company to survive, which we are considering here and most likely will be accepted, I certainly hope it will. But let us do so closely, and let us do so with clear conditions for the sake of the public. If the governments of other larger countries than ours can, then we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u71	A respectable president. I wanted to ask you what. A senator would have noticed that she was at the highest level. The minister of finance spoke in his preeminent speech about state responsibility because it was a bit of a big deal. It's got the highest complaints. Secretary of finance over how difficult or impossible it is to comply with state - responsibilities laws. Something to do. So we set out a law to enforce, but they were scraped aside, reasoning that they were not relevant in this situation and that they had been given all the other arrangements and so on. A moment later, the highest was spoken. Ministers that various diagnostics required in the state responsible legislation have been performed in cooperation with Deloitte, etc. What does it mean in this exchange of power between legislation and financial authority, which, in all equal terms, should get these analyses from the Statety Fund, public members who are responsible for rational support, access of information and the like, and then the Commission who come to an outside party, a private company, to achieve the same analysis as required in the law, and then complain that it would have been a double effort to perform these same analyses again in the State Accounting Fund, but it had been so difficult to do it for the first time? Would it not have been possible to win them just once, simply by having the right person do it to the State Accountable Fund, under the law that we set up the Commission to follow up? We are in such a twisted environment where the European Commission, working by law, decides: No, we are not going to work by this law. It's uncomfortable. Let us turn them aside and suggest that this is not appropriate in this case. It's so unusable. However, let us do what the law says with some other sources that the Senate does not have as much access to. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. As I mentioned at the beginning of my talk, it clearly shows the gravity and seriousness of changing the law on state responsibility for this extraordinary matter. Of course, we need to take a good time to discuss the matter at a judicial level when we are actually offering a bill of changes in budgets that are subject to the State responsibility and, in addition, to changing the laws on state responsibility. With the access to specialists, I'd encourage shock. A senator on a budget board to call in the field according to all the information he needs and the special help he and other members of the budget may feel that he is useful. The Parliament is the site for the legislation of the legal authority to acquire expertise, just to be a counter-requisite to the European Commission. And I'd just say "wow." A senator who is well - known for asking many questions and seeking expert opinion to do so on a financial committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u73	A respectable president. I've asked this question, and I've put a memo to the budget on exactly why the State Accounts don't apply, quite significant nothing. The explanation is very high, simply that the law does not apply. What, though, is the basis for this? It is suggested that they are only relevant to a project and a number of things. There is no reason. You can read from this memo that says this and not why? There is no question about the legal authority of the European Commission not to comply with the law or where the legal authority is, which says, in the case of granting state responsibility, is not relevant. No reason. The only solution is, "Ups, these laws are unpleasant, "and then they'll be taken away." At the same time, however, some of the laws are being followed and placed in the terms of this Kingdom responsibility. This is remarkable, for it is the means, in effect, to take on a certain legal role. The terms generally seen by the state responsibilities are entered into the terms of state responsibility for the private company itself. There are, in fact, legal issues that do not receive any political treatments, no reviews, or anything like that. In this case, the law is actually decommissioned, putting a part of the legal code into the terms of some agreement. I think it's something important. It's interesting to me the use of the executive authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u74	Mr. President. There was no question directed to me in this counter-regulated situation. paritaprevir Björn Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, was quite interesting. A senator I think may be able to expand more fully, develop and develop, affecting his work on a financial committee. And I encourage him to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u75	A respectable president. It's very difficult for the executives to come here and ask some Greek questions, and I want to thank you. A candidate for this talk was very thought - provoking. This was a form of rebuke too. I'm just saying that it needs to be done that way. We do not necessarily agree on roads, but we agree that we need more answers. I ask the Senator if he agrees with me in that as the matter is now not prepared to provide adequate public welfare, at least not making it possible for us to go out to all our clients - we are in the same district, the Southwestern district - and explain to our people why it is necessary to go this way. As I spoke about in my talk, I don't feel that the fact that we support the company is more likely to get seriously, but it's only natural that we make these clear demands, and we have different viewpoints. I want to ask you why. A senator, first of all, would it be necessary to explain the matter more fully and to see if she had said this in the board? I especially welcome the emphasis as a matter of course. A senator talks about the environment. It is surprising that at every press conference at the U.S.R.R. meeting, environmental minister is not visible. It was supposed to be one of the left-hand greener vessels in the government to care for the environment, but it's as if their best friend in all these measures has been slightly forgotten. I'd just like to keep my head down. A senator in order to be more alert and to draw the environmental factors and the requirements that we will be doing better in making a decision about how we are going to build our professional life.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his objections as well as for his compliments on the environment. I think they're a huge part of the measures the government needs to take about economic resistance. I hereby declare that I would like to see more emphasis and more about the environmental issues of that action. Like what? A senator knows that a government aid to a private company is always difficult. She was at a council when the state aid to deCODE was discussed. True, there were higher amounts of money and perhaps a little bit more uncertainty about exactly what the company's business was supposed to be about moral, etc. Politically and ideologically, public assistance is always difficult. But when it comes to bail of public funds, sharing money, we as legislators need to ensure that public funds are ensured in this way, as I mentioned in my speech, that there are stricter requirements and that the executive representatives will then be there to protect the public. As the bill shows, not all agree exactly on this point. The decision is to provide the State guarantee of loans rather than to give partial funds to the company against temporary involvement in the company. As I mentioned in my speech, it is the way the right governments and the liberal centres of Europe have been treated, there are temporary measures to become part of the airlines. I suppose that's what. A senator might agree with many of the measures taken in Europe, but it is clear that there are no other members of the administration who agree with me on these ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u77	Mr. President. Iceland and I are heavily dependent on flying transports and on more than many other nations. Safety and safe flight transport also divides the growth and maintenance of the tourism service, which was our largest sector for the viral epidemic, and the export of transport prices associated with air transport have also increased in recent years. This involves a great amount of community interests and large, large, and financial interests for a number of people and businesses in the country. It is a great responsibility in my opinion of the government not to do anything in the pandemic situation and particularly in this company. So the risk is serious not to do anything. The company of Illelands was run profitably in 2011 -2018, at that time resulting in a wealth of about $3 billion. Its scope is high in the Icelandic economy and the stock market was strong for the viral epidemic. The company is very wealthy and is employed by people who have worked hard to make the way of it as the best for years. A lot of jobs at the company. The steady state was 4,700 in 2019, followed by a number of secondary jobs. If we take as an example the number of Southnes workers, then there were 2017 370 active in a new air cover then being taken advantage of at Keflavour Airport. These jobs are generally high - paying jobs, so do not forget in this context that unemployment is the most important thing in Southnes. In Smokeytown, it's about 19%, no less. For example, in the company many women are employed, and in Southnes, now one woman out of five is out of work. Thus, in many areas the role of the State is very important in this matter. This is working on investors coming up to the company and it's about this important thing. If the financial restitution of the Society is to follow, then there is a need for the establishment of the state, a need for the General to grant this loan, which hopefully does not need to be used, and to secure the interests of taxpayers. Of course, it is very important that the matter be discussed carefully with a financial committee. In particular, I would like to mention the comments of the existing Kingdom Accounting Committee, that the committee oversees it carefully and answers the questions that arise there. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenlfóttir told us earlier that we should be careful in this matter. It's very important. The guarantees made by the company on the loan, I believe, are acceptable. These include airport shops, called ◯slots, in English - language languages, which contain considerable value. Then there is the brand Iccelands, which is known worldwide, and then the trade and distribution routes or accounting systems. The insides of the club are ready to go full, start immediately and light on this market. Its value is precious, and it is especially important in this matter. I want to agree with that with the highest. Secretary of finance that it is a certain achievement that the union survived the severe storms that have raged during the last few months on a plane. The Society has now reached important stages in preparing the stock tenders needed to ensure further operation. All flight groups have been negotiated and negotiated until September 2025, and with aviators until the end of 2025. The union has been paid damages from the Boing Air Force for the so-called Max Planes, and the company has also reached contracts with the lenders. Of course, these are all very important interests in the financial reorganization of the Society and involve a lower risk for the contribution of the State Fund. Of course, the tourism industry will again grow when the epidemic is over and vaccines are available. Iceland has many wonderful things to offer when it comes to tourists, as we all know, and the country is going to be popular again. The government is taking a heavy risk in my opinion if it is not supported by government funds in the form of loans. Keep in mind that the loan is a real problem. It may not be new, and hopefully it won't have to come to that. But it is necessary, so the company manages to collect the necessary items to ensure its management. It is a great risk, and much can be lost for a national gathering if the union went bankrupt. The Society is still on a good boat, as it were, for cash, but if nothing is done and it goes down to zero it will happen in the autumn months. It is important in this matter, as stated in the bill, that the coming of the State will be expected to be the last in the reorganization process and that the state will be the first to go out, as it is said, as soon as the situation develops. Then fences are put in order to encourage the Society not to take advantage of their Kingdom responsibilities. There are some factors that will not be allowed to be paid for, and more factors mentioned in the bill. It is an important point that the Society can enter the summer of 2021 without drawing on government loans. Keep in mind, too, that the major members of the organization have enjoyed government support. Then, in 2020, there is one of the worst years in the history of world aircraft, so that in one way or another, a number of airlines are exposed to the arrival of the State. Of course, there is a risk factor in the situation if the next summer will not be good for the arrival of passengers, and there are two main causes of uncertainty about the situation. First, it is the time of the epidemic, when it is gone and when the vaccine will be marketed, and second, it is the travel of people, when people will generally be ready to move again. It has been observed that in the great work that has taken place in this case, two groups were appointed on the side of the State. I want to use this opportunity here to thank the fine people who have been involved in the case of the State and have laid the foundation for the work we are going to the budget and the council has taken care of. One group was in a conversation with the Icelandar Society while the other group examined other routes, it has been observed, and those involved in the working groups are well aware of this operation. The conclusion was that the wisest way to support Icelanda was the wisest way to do things. Other routes were considered non-inferior. Important knowledge and experience are within the society that will be crucial to strong resistance when the pandemic is over. That's important to society. The government has been identified as having a share in the company. As for that, I'd like to say that this means more risk to them than to the people here. The object-to-part route is risky. The history of public possession in airlines is not to be imitated, as is experience in most of our neighboring countries. Airship is a variable business that is not ideal for the State to be shareholder. So there's a lot to do to save the company from bankruptcy, that's what I think everybody's aware of. It's technically complex to rebuild a bankrupt society. Such a union is a significant risk, and much is lost in that process, much of value. If the government does not grant this loan, there will be consequences. Mr. President. At the end, I want to repeat what I said at the outset and stress that it is very important that a financial committee, even though it has a relatively short period of time, carefully review this case. Committeemen have been well introduced in terms of the company I've only traced. This is a national interest firm in many fields, gives a number of families a job, and helps us to succeed. We are very dependent on air transport, and having a good airline that has headquarters in Iceland has a lot of value. I would like to repeat that it is very important that we approach this issue, since it is nationally important, but we, of course, need to protect the interests of the state and the interests of the taxpayers and to consider all the comments made in the coming process within the committee. I hope the Senate will agree that this is taking an important and necessary step.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u78	A respectable president. In the ensuing speech, the minister of finance complained that it was impossible to enforce the laws on state responsibility, that they had nothing to do with this. A brief time later, he said that the analyses have been performed, e.g. With Deloitte, it would have been important. That is correct, for these analyses are part of what needs to be applied in order to fulfill laws on state responsibility. If we correct the key elements of these laws, the State Accounting Fund should evaluate the payment of creditable creditors, assess the risk of responsibility, assess insurance that will be submitted on the basis of responsibility, and assess the effect of Kingdom responsibility on competition in the area, and then there are here various requirements that suggest when it is not permitted to contribute to the State responsibility and the like. There is a reason why these matters are under law on state responsibilities because the Commission has to be explained to the council, based on the points, why public funds are in secure hands on state responsibilities. It's said that the laws for state responsibility do not apply in such situations, in such companies and so on, that the law is out - of - date and that it has long stood to update them. It does not excuse merely scraping them aside and taking at the same time some of the laws on state responsibility, e.g. The fee, and enforcing it into the terms of the state responsibility itself. At all times, the General will weigh the terms of the terms of the state's responsibilities and the logic of the European Parliament's legislation on the basis of their terms and on the basis of the reports made by the State Responsible Fund. We get reviews about whether these terms are good or bad for a legal bill. However, in terms of terms of state responsibilities in a contract between the state and the private enterprise, the terms of which are by no means legal. The government is taking on a set legal procedure that seems inappropriate to me. There's a difference between law and financial authority. We are here as sources of financial resources to decide whether 16 billion responsibilities are considered to be a good use of public money or not, or the trust that the state fund has behind it for credit rates and such. Then, however, it is carried out. It's two separate things, but it's done a lot like the same power. The government, who has taken part of the Council's office, conducts the Council as a secondary product of the European Commission, by not giving us information when asked for it - we will see if it will follow up before. Um... I look forward to seeing if it happens, but it hasn't happened yet... about what other possibilities were in the situation and why the possibilities are worse than the possibilities put on the table. This is exactly the same discussion I have had with regard to financial, financial, transport, transport plans, where they need a list of priorities. Here are all the possibilities placed in front of us. We tried to weigh each possibility on the basis of risks and benefits and even on political ideologies; it doesn't matter as long as there is evidence that this option was the best of all. We've heard in the financial department reviews, on visits to the budget board, that we're talking about a company on the open market and that we need to be very careful. But it's an open market company that's coming to the public and asking for public funds, and we need to be careful with public funds. There are certain transparent requirements that we need to meet, information we need to have to make in order to make a decision on how we treat our taxpayers well. There's a reason why the State Accounting Act is set. This is because companies in an open market are in competition, and when the government decides to help one company more than another, it makes the competition. Then the government is to choose and reject one person above another unless it is governed by state responsibilities, where the company that receives Kingdom responsibility must be paid for it on the basis of the difference between the market and the terms of the state's responsibilities. We don't get that analysis because it's too hard to appreciate, but we're going to let Delotte appreciate how convenient it is for us. The problem that we face in the final analysis is whether this 16 billion national responsibilities are considered good management of public funds. With regard to that question, there are some possibilities. One answer can easily be yes. If everything depends on the plan, if Iclands' plans pass, if the stock market goes out, if you never borrow the loan, it's pretty much like it's never been paid. But it was granted. There is a tendency to have a Kingdom responsibility behind them for disaster. Iclanders, the person who receives the Kingdom responsibility, enjoys it in the stock market, it's more solid stock market than any other. This makes the competitive situation amiss. We do not have a diagnosis of what should be done under state responsibility law. The other chances are that the loans will be fully borrowed and that everything will be restored. It does so by means of a certain charge that is under the law of state responsibility, that there should be a certain charge, so that it has been avoided by law rather than by terms of terms of terms. I don't understand why. Perhaps it is because the law needs to be reasoned better, but there is no need to support it in particular if it is under the terms of the terms. This is a way of getting rid of having to reason on the matter in an open and transparent manner, as the General has to do in order to make informed decisions about such issues. If something is, if you're going to have a pessimism, this is a way to shut down the transparency that otherwise needs to be there when the Council makes decisions about funding and government responsibilities. The possibility of this is that not everything will be collected. What's the risk of it? We have no idea. It is to be appreciated under the laws on State responsibilities, but we are not to be evaluated. There was a plot from Deloitte that said that although there would be a rift from plans of 10,970 percent or something like that, it would all stand up to some 50% deviation. It's just said by memory, don't take me at all on the word as far as it goes. That staging analysis looked really good. You can reason: All right, considering these plans, it takes a lot of work to make this impossible. All right, so it's a secure investment, and the state comes in to a very small extent, to as little as possible. But there's still a time, even though it's so safe. Or, because you can't see the information and you don't know what real information is behind it, because the data Deloitte is the information from the club itself, is it a fallatar but is seen on the numbers? Is the database under which data are based scrawl but found in the analysis? If so, it may be as careful with these contracts as possible that it will not be harmed, which is also good. However, this prevents the aim of a safe and safe flight. That's what we want to achieve, isn't it? Then you ask: If it's your goal, is Illelands the only organization that can meet that goal? Again, it is not an option for us to see whether it will last or not. At least not yet, though, the question has been asked. There are more committee work left, but there is a small number of committee work to be completed in a very short period of time. The Council is to complete this Friday and we are to issue 16 billion Kingdom responsibilities in one week with very limited information, at present, to base the decision on. I have no doubt that the government has access to better information, confidential information. There's never been said in meetings here so that the information received by a financial committee is confidential, in fact, one cornea from someone other than Ingelanda, who asked for confidentiality. I don't know why, but okay, nothing bad about that. In all other respects, we have not received any confidential information concerning Icelanda and the analyses that have been derived from the data that have yielded to the financial committee. So I guess we don't have the same financial information as the government on why this is the best option over others. I don't think we're gonna get that information or enough information along with other options so that we can say that this is certainly the best option in the situation. I don't think it's likely. I can only hope that it will not work, but if you get experience, I'm going to guess that the conclusion is that this case will be taken over, that we'll have a client's report on this case, and that all the boxes will be checked and the case will be completed, and because the government has simply decided by its majority that she can just finish this case without showing the World Council reasons and the argument that it is a good government's handling of public funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u79	A respectable president. One of the fun things about the other sad conditions that result from the Covid epidemic is all the new words and terms we're learning. This is a systematicly important enterprise. I'm having a bit of a hard time with it because I feel like a company can never be systematicly important. Yes, Icelands is important because many people work there. This is important for them and their families. Icelanders are important because of the company's services. It is systematicly important that Iceland's transport around the world be secured, whether it is in the hands of Icelanda, or whatever it was called here once, FL Group, Pillus and Airlines, or anyone else. The company has not existed since the beginning of the flight history in the same form, but the service has always been performed, and that is what is systematically important. Therefore, when we are considering this matter, we must always pause if we are going too far in the interests of the company as such rather than the objective, which is the company's service. The approach the government proposes means that the state will be a borrower for disaster if there is an all - out problem with the Iceldirs in the reimbursement. It is not obvious that this is the best way, as has been pointed out. It is equally good if there is no better reason for the Kingdom to be the cause of trouble. If the company does not manage to finance its market on its own terms and is about to drop the empire and catch it in the fall. It is even closer to being the State's responsibility to grab the company and thereby secure the ministry. Earlier today, in an unsubstantiated question period, it was stated by the highest level. A local prime minister has the importance of working as an airline with a base in Iceland that worked in an Icelandic labour market. I stopped at both. I stopped that it would be important for the company to have headquarters in Iceland because I don't have any guarantee that it will be in six months, a year, or two years if everything works out for Icelanda because Icelanders have hf. is simply a partner that shareholders can direct in their desired direction. There's a market company. Is it not, then, in control of where they have their headquarters? I agree that it's a positive thing that in Iceland is an airline with a base in Iceland, but we can't use it as evidence that there's a condition somewhere. That might be a good idea. I also think it is important that the airline that provides the basic services the country's link to the outside world is a job in the Icelandic labour market. I couldn't agree more than that. Prime Minister. But what happened in spring? Can it be said that the events of Icelanda executives in their dealings with union union union union union union unions are in any way compatible with those of an Icelandic labour market? Of this, there are no conditions but the matters we have right here in front of us, as it might be empty talk. The classes have been turned. We need not worry that it will be done in the two years that the loan line will apply. This was done during springtime, so it may not be necessary to set conditions for the company to work in an Icelandic job market. However, it is not stated that this request for the government to have an airline operating in Iceland with the National Aviation Centre as a work force under the Icelandic labour market is not introduced into any form in these matters. It reflects a greater trend in the government, in the emergency procedures that have been started in the past few months, that conditional support is extremely afraid. If a prime minister feels it is important that this is a company with a base in Iceland working in the Icelandic labour market, then the opportunity is already here to give a partner a 16 billion loan line with national responsibility, the possibility is here to put it on paper instead of saying it is his opinion in an unprepared question period. It doesn't have the same value as a document that's been signed and confirmed here at the council. That's not a requirement. It's a wish. I'm not going to put up a lot of words, but I'd like to describe my concern because while planning to guarantee a loan line to the club, the law frame should be turned aside to guarantee loans to partners in this case with very weak logic. State responsibilities laws set a set frame, including is an assessment of risks. Whether appropriate guarantees are available to defend the State will be evaluated. The State Accounting Act ensures that the State Accountable Fund that operates within the State of Lent makes this assessment professionally, and it then follows a proposal to the council to give responsibilities to the State. The only reason I'm sorry for compromising the State Accounting Act is to avoid the professional process, to avoid exposure to the evaluation of the day. I don't know why we should be shy about it, though, because the secretary of finance made quite clear in a transmission speech, and he says that responsibility is probably of no value. He said he didn't know. He said that if the company broke down, someone might want to rebuild the airline Icelanda, and then all of a sudden the site could be Icelandir.com could be very valuable. Maybe no one wants to use a domain. Maybe they don't want any accounting machines. Maybe we're gonna have too many airport landings. In that way, the responsibility is worthless, as is pointed out in the review of Kingdom Accounting. That's right, because it's all happening, we know it's paying the state warrants in empty air, why can't we go through a state guarantee fund that said it only black in white that it would follow the evidence? Then people would be accepting the case with open eyes. I think that it may be possible that having a state of responsibility is a firm statement from the state to the company because investors involved in the stock market will be presented to the executives with a request that the state guarantees a loan line to the company. The investors reason: Yes, the background of the company has been reviewed. There's been some assurances and risks. The state says this company is good enough to put money in. Then I can bring my money. Investors view it as an agreement to the General of this matter as a reliable statement, but we have heard it from the secretary of finance and read from the National Relation that there is no basis for confidence other than a wish for success. Everything worth is bet on. Therefore, as a responsible lawgiver, we should face it and another way of saying, "Well, that's all right, we don't need responsibility, you get this money, you're a really important company. We just want this to work out for you. Let us not pretend that some site and accounting machine are worth anything, just do it well, 15 billion. The other way would be prepared, to be lender to disaster, owner to disaster, and to say, "Here you get a loan line of 15 billion." If everything goes wrong and you have to cut off the loan line, we know you don't have a guarantee. We're just getting stock in return. If things go wrong and the government has to step in with its 15 billion to support the company, then the state will be allowed to participate in the future structure of the company, directly as shareholder at the table. I think it would be a much healthier way, since we're about to get to a place where we don't want to go on the legal route set up in the state of responsibilities. Of course, it would be best for us to do so because in these critical times we must have a law that is crippling. By departing from first-authority laws that are to be protected from government funds, we are saying that our body of law cannot withstand the pressure. That's not good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u80	V.E.G. President. We're here discussing possible state responsibilities on loan lines for Icelanda in the form of two primes, which are rather simpler than the figures they follow, like this 1. How true of the matter! Only about the bills. The first bill is to discuss a new team at 6. budgets, a law that includes permission to provide Iclelands, as a systematicly important enterprise, solely responsible for loans, up to 15 billion, 90% of all but 10% were in the hands of the two state banks. However, there is a bill about a change in the laws on state responsibilities. This change has been made according to the nature of the matter, though, in the context of a new provisional principle that separates this action of Kingdom responsibility as it occurs. But we know this from payment to make extra loans earlier in spring and so-called bridge loans and loans to smaller or smaller operators, support loans. A financial dimension would be set up in a bill for financial support and the remuneration for possible responsibilities there and particularly in the agreement and other conditions for which such responsibility is necessary. As mentioned in the discussion, these matters are being handled well by a financial committee and the council. We've already called in and received a Kingdom responsibilities memo and why it is wise to make provision to replace this with state - of - duty laws because I agree wholeheartedly with the general situation presented here. ... ina matterwhat. paritaprevir The son of Leví, Gunnarsson. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, who was before me in a talk, came into this conversation. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir put it as if I thought it would be a good way of gripping it, that the formalities will provide the discipline and support necessary for the Commission in making such decisions, and when the council decides matters that have entered the council. I'll agree with that. I can't answer this question about the law in a moment, but I just want to come by and take it down in the memo for information on the proposed state responsibility. That's where even the two of them come from. until, by permission of the President: ▪ 1st. it states that legal rights should be in place so that the state's funds can handle commitment. The Bible further says: ▪ Preconceived state responsibility for Iccelias is temporary, and it will not be decided by special laws, which must then be canceled by a specific law. It is more reasonable that such sources can be obtained in terms of financial legislation in a comparable way to the sale of the property of the State. I'm not going to read any more of this but then we're going to take out each song, and it's gonna be our job at the moment. The legal committee is considering this as requested during the discussion. State responsibilities law has not been revised, as it has been for some time. That, in fact, is what it says. Here in footnote: However, the study has not been considered urgent, in view of the rare nature of the last few years. This will be discussed in a report on State responsibilities and reimbursement. We need to dive a little bit on this show, but at the same time, even though we're dealing with this matter right now, there's no reason to be suspicious of everything in this process. It may be more prudent to guarantee this in a financial bill, as is done with the use and responsibilities. Of course, we must always look at this and the rest of the matter in relation to the risks involved. But enough about the Kingdom guarantee for now. The work ahead is to answer the questions that have been raised to 1st. and the opinions mentioned at the outset of my speech. It has been discussed with the systematic importance or national importance, the definition of it, and how far it goes. I don't think we can ever talk about something that is systematicly important or national without putting it in some kind of context. Now, we've received reviews from the Association of Tourism, SAF, and the Association of Employment, they've entered this systematic importance, and they support the case in their reviews. We will have these members for the committee. I feel that in the discussion it is undisputed that the company of Iclindas plays a very important role in transport and freight transport and services and the scope of tourism. When we talk about context, we can mention that tourism has up to 40% of total transport income. That's when we start putting things into some kind of context when we're discussing public interest and systematic importance. Of course, it is our responsibility to define it because we are guided by public interest. It is not, and it will never be possible to handle such a case, state responsibility for private companies and companies on the market. But there are very special circumstances that we are dealing with in most cases here. Such an intervention is naturally accompanied by a competitive disorder. It has been noted that Icelandi is not just on a plane, moving passengers back and forth, but he runs a travel agency, hotels, and various other flying services. We need to be alert to equal relations on these markets, and once again it links it to the public economy that is behind us and is our guide. There are also contracts with all the professionals, employees, Icelandic environment, state-of-the-state assistance regulations. There have been a number of other ways, and as we are looking around, most nations have had to resort to these measures, some of which are like the suggestions and other ways that have been discussed in the discussion; to lend directly or take a share, or to do nothing, etc. Many nations have had to support airlines, as has been shown here in this discussion. Hv. Brynjólfsdóttir In Denmark, Sweden and Finland, Norway, Germany, France, Austria, and elsewhere, we have a very good example from France and the Netherlands. It's been brought out here, and it's important in this 1st. The committee has a great responsibility to go through these questions all and to draw out the answers. It is clear, though, that the preceding process has gone a long, long, strict process. Let us not forget that the union itself has faced a huge battle and has had to negotiate with demandsors, negotiate with suppliers, and fight for its existence. It is important that the union itself assumes responsibility for its own existence in this way, and I think that the approach to a government control group has been reasonable in this regard. It is certainly safe when it comes to evaluating this route in order to minimize the risk of paying taxpayers and to ensure transport and to the general public. I think we have to look to it. The premise here, when we settle this case, is that the stock market is behind us. Of course, it's a big test the company's going through there. All the programs that the Society is making and demonstrating for support, whether it is investing, the current shareholder or the support we are considering, are below. Everything's going to be taken care of. Of course, accepting the matter here gives a measure of confidence and is included in that regard. But if we put ourselves in the position of those who are thinking about supporting the Society with their money, they are in the same position that those funds can be lost. This is not enough to allow us to be willing to say: This community is a matter of public interest. We just have to look freezing at the situation. At any rate, it is a large test, and it is important that the partner go through the test that it offers. The cost model will be examined there, where plans will be prepared, revenue models, etc. If we wonder what we're really trying to secure, we're in an economic situation, that we're all there in all other matters. It is not simple to say: Let's give companies a shelter, pay for companies to give up jobs, when we say at the same time that we want to spend jobs and create new jobs. However, it is said that each of us will be ready when we feel possible. Of course, having an organization that has these systems and is ready to begin is something of value. That's the context we need to put things in. Of course, we cannot answer all the questions at 1 Peter 3: 1. ..., but here are many valuable questions for the committee to work with. We are just waiting on this challenge for us at the council to handle these matters. I'm not gonna keep this any further until now, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u81	A respectable president. Trust and national responsibility. It appears that the private company of Icellands is actually looking for a firm declaration from the government: Please give us a reliable declaration that comes in the form of a state guarantee with as little access as possible to minimize the risk of state funds. That trust statement is held in this hall, inside the council, not in the government. Even though the government has made a statement, the Declaration of trust is presented here by the votes of every member of Congress, depending on their convictions as to whether the company is worthy of trust. The method we use to weigh whether trust in the form of state responsibility is deserved has been established in the laws of state responsibility. Suppose these laws are out - of - date and need a review, and this has been known for a long time. Icelands and the government have also spoken for a long time since March. At that time, the government has never said: "We may have to go out to State responsibilities, and perhaps we should update the law so that we have finished it before it comes, if we have to go out into that package, we might have to go out with the box that we need to make sure that the evidence for Kingdom responsibilities is good. Instead, the State Accounting Act is scraped aside. We need to, I think, just close our eyes and press a button. And what kind of responsibility or confidence statement is that?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u82	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for this question and the discussion of state responsibility here today. I think we agree on most of the things that lie that the committee needs to pay attention. We agree that the State responsibilities are discipline and discipline, and they are important laws. I think our Lawgiver's responsibility is just as much less when it comes to our failure to revise these laws. And I'm not gonna close my eyes and push some button, just so blind. We've called for a memo. There's a memo. It may be that the memo is not necessarily enough for us on the committee, and I agree with it by reason. Senator. But it is quite clear that when we withdraw from the law and conditions just appear in the budget bill and a special contract, we will simply have to ensure that the State Accounts Act and all the maintenance and discipline contained in it will be presented in the document we are working on. That's my point.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u83	A respectable president. It is my earnest desire that they answer, that there is nothing more complex than that. But from experience, we have experienced quite often here at the council that the government has certain information that the Senate cannot receive. In fact, it has been attributed to judicial cases that a minister kept information from the council. There is no doubt about it. It has been a case in which it has been made clear that the members of the federal states vote because they trust their counsellers, the government's advisers, not because they themselves have the information that matters about decision making, but because they have the conviction of following the counsellers. All right. The conviction of each senator is perfectly valid. However, there is a certain imbalance between the fact that the government's non - government government minister does not have access to and much trust in the counsellers. Therefore, the management board is a set of questions for the council, and particularly for members of the council, who do not have access to advisers. I think that access is fairly inappropriate. It's, for example. relatively inappropriate when half of the legal committee gets a minister to ask questions about certain issues, etc. but those who are not members of the government do not get access to a minister to ask the same questions. This is what I'm trying to draw attention to, that we in this room should always have access to information relevant to making decisions on individual matters. [[The president calls.]] It hasn't happened, historically speaking, and I hope that the experiment will be different in this case. But I'll allow myself to be skeptical. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u84	V.E.G. President. I'm very happy and thank you for the answer. I'm gonna grab it with me: I'm gonna let me be skeptical. That's exactly what we do. We are to be skeptical without perhaps crossing the line of suspicion. I don't think it's any good in this case to conceal any information. It may be that in view of the fact that the market record contains information on the basis of some confidentiality, etc. Of course, we respect it as we can and seek all the facts. In the end, it will not be beneficial to hide information, especially regarding what we are discussing at the outset, in answer to the issue of state responsibility. We just want to make sure that the process is clear, that it is transparent, and if the council supports this matter, everything we want the State Accounting Act will be guaranteed in the matter. It is our job, and it is our common work ahead of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u85	A respectable president. As we have seen many times, it's a huge deal. That's not easy. After listening to a talk, however, some did. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson son of Thor, chairman of the budget board, I hope to do so - I'm not saying that it's something new because we're sitting here. A senator at times over important discussions makes notes, and I'd like to say that such a situation has improved because of such a reaction. I don't mean to wear a plate, but it's important to the sense of security you get, and I think it's a bit of a rush. A senator thus works in a different way than that, for example. The government, where he sits in here and listens and is clearly gathering what is said, hopefully to the best of his ability to answer the concerns that exist between myself and others in the government. I have no doubt that there are many of those questions that can be answered. Then there is a political view whether or not they want to represent state responsibilities, etc. But I'd like to stress that it matters that this company, and what it stands for, to keep the paths to and from the country open and available, will be ready when we begin our next visit in the tourism service. That's when it counts that there's a airline here that can do it. But it will, of course, go over and look, and we will take it into consideration once those answers have been obtained. I want to ask you why. Chairman of how much time the committee needs to review.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u86	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. I was worried that for a moment, I would be required to comment on the many matters of opinion that have been presented in the discussions today because I really wanted to answer them. I may have had a view of some of them, but I feel that the discussion has drawn me to the conclusion that this will not be in some category of political bikes, although it would have been said at any time that political princely rule. But it certainly isn't like that, I think the circumstances make it that it isn't. This week we're giving ourselves - we'd have needed the week to just take care of this one thing, I think. But we've tried a lot here, and there's probably a marathon day, a committee day on Monday. We're trying to make the most of it. We gave us a deadline until Monday, and then we'll try to get a party as the reviews come, those who are ready to come. And then we are at the same time dealing with government policy, so we need to work hard. I can see that we're trying to finish the reviews on Monday, Tuesday. It also takes time for the council to digest the information that goes through it. So I think a week is less than time, if I'm supposed to say just right now, but we have to see how the days, the holidays, and then Monday and Tuesday work. Interestingly, when the committees get the day to work, they tend to be very dramatic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u87	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. I realize how difficult it is to settle the matter in such a short time. Of course, we want to have more discussion about this, and I also realize that the senator is in more parts and all the members of the government, independent party, forward and left, have agreed to that. But I told it in my speech that we must be able to explain why the government is going this way, no matter what we decide to do. We need to be able to tell people that there is a basis for preparation and that it was in such a way that the government could go, because it is important that people understand and perceive. This will give you a greater chance of solidarity. One more thing. I'm not demanding answers, but there's a lot of talk about a private member, that the pension fund, which has more part of the company, will be free to come to the table. But they are not quite free, so investing is not for a rich park. Then I wonder how realistic it is for the company when such a large shareholder is moved to the table, because he is headed and the reason for the seas is natural $1.4.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u88	V.E.G. President. First, the key question that all of us need to answer is, Why is this way chosen? I'm only about as far as I'm concerned with answering this, but I think that the direction group's approach makes sense, putting the key users in mind. for the greater good in mind. The premise went to the highest level. Financial and economic secretarys well over, ensuring safe and intact air travel and the presence of a pilot when we go to the front, and then taking care of the risk factors and minimising the risk. The plan will go on and on and on, it's a real challenge. It won't test the loan lines. That, of course, is the best situation. Of course, that is what we look at, and that is how we minimize the risk of making public use in this way. The objective is not directly to defend the interests of demands or creditors in this regard. Then comes the second. A senator into the state of the pension fund. Of course, they're not in any place, they can invest abroad. But I wouldn't last all the time discussing the crown. It can also be very important for us as we start talking about the subject, as it has been before. On the other hand, I think the pension fund, because it has to be public interest, will, of course, be able to look at all the factors below, both the estimates and the underlying factors, the cost models, revenues, demand, etc. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u89	A respectable president. No one needs to be surprised to know that I speak in discussions about bill issues relating to the state responsibility for Icellands and saying that I hate it. Those who have watched me and my political life before and after officially participating in political politics should not be surprised to know that I also say that I do not feel alone in giving Icelanda state responsibility. I've been through the years, where, rarely, such cases have been raised here at the council, opposed the services of state responsibilities. Although I had not been inside the council when Icelandic genetics received a government responsibility by a special law, I made comments on this at the time. One of the few legal bills I have presented here as a member of the Senate paid exact attention to their law, which had been given the days of the law and was still in place of state responsibility for Icelandic genetic analysis long after it was intended to apply and all other responsibilities. I can think of government grants for a silicar on the Backcoat, et cetera. who have found themselves in the discussion and payment here at the council and are subject to such responsibilities as undeniably a competitive stand on the market. Even if the market is not highly competitive, such markets fall into place and make bad decisions that are out of control in the real world. So I don't think it's a shock for them to bring me here to name it. In today's debate, which has been very interesting to observe, the members of the Parliament have been talking about the systematic importance of Icelanda, but I have not seen that men define exactly what that involves. I ask myself, " What does that mean? ' Yes, we all agree that transportation exists and from the country is systematically important. I don't think anyone's gonna share that. For us as an island nation, it is particularly urgent that flights to and out of the country remain safely. But there is another issue that can be considered so important to the company that it itself is systematicly important and so important that it calls for many billions of Kingdom responsibilities and even financial support. I'm pretty sure I can claim it isn't. But this is exactly the subject that will be discussed here at the council for the next few days. In all of this, there has been a measure of the wording "temptively important. " Maybe I can understand that. I believe, however, that this matter is far more emotional than it does. Although people have not mentioned it here, Icelanda has a little emotional company for all Icelanders, and I have sometimes said that we all worked for Icellands. If you were about to start some campaign, it could be, "We're all Icelanda." Although I have never been on the company's payroll many times, I have found myself in such places as traveling abroad to sell to people who are crossing the sea, from Europe to America, and in the other direction, flying tickets with Icelanders. So I've pointed out the benefits of Icelanda and encouraged people to do business with the company, not because I've been doing some good with it, but somehow it's come from their upbringing and environment here. Even though the Icelanders have been ostentatious to ride back and forth when they buy plane tickets in this country, I've heard a lot of people in my place when they've come home, to agitera, if I may, so toss, or speak for this fine airline and the important work it's had in our behalf. So I think it's emotional. It was told me yesterday, in fact, outside the house: If you're going to speak against the state responsibility for Icellands, realize that it's like trying to be mean to family members. Maybe that's something like that. But you have to try, and I think it's important for the council and the financial resources, in which the interests of taxpayers are at stake, to get over these feelings. I also think of the feelings that battled us with the 2008 economic breakdown, when it became evident that all the bank accounts that proved so difficult for us to follow, e.g. The Icesave bank accounts, had not been removed from the country at the time, although it had to be done, were that romantic emotions encouraged their having been placed on the land. Either way. Senators talk about professional people, they are real people like all of us who have feelings and the majority of them have the best interests of their people and want to turn to society and leave behind something in society. Of course, the actions of these people are largely marked by their motivations, although they need to be overcrowded. There are also unprecedented times. Then I must ask: Why is that? Maintain government actions, e.g. making this time more unprecedented and the circumstances more difficult than it would have to be? I would particularly like to mention the measures taken at the close of the border this August 14, but the decision was actually made to close the border from August 19 and that despite no figures suggesting that the land was hit by a similar wave of virus that was in spring. All of a sudden, though, it was done. Then I'd like to recall that in June, special campaigns were taken, foreign marketing agencies were purchased to market Iceland under the title "Noise" is open, actually in English, but a short time later they locked up. In discussions about this bill, I feel that the government is not speaking clearly in these matters and introduces the council as to the policy of opening a border. V.E.G. The secretary of finance noted today and yesterday what is right, that each day is very expensive and costs a great deal in this condition. Yet, it has been presented by economists that it's okay to close the country because it's going to be a whole lot more in this country. Happily, the government, if the minister of finance speaks for her in these matters, seems to realize that each day is very expensive. It seems to me that the decision taken regarding the close of the 14th border has been unsettled. I think it's important to unwind the decision and feel that it's normal to do so before the bill that's done. They're here asking for assistance with an airline that is, in fact, all rescues are banned, as the situation is being carried out today by this operation. The state itself has pulled the foundation away from the company by making this decision, and while men speak so that they might even have the border closed for months, as a psychiatrist said in an interview a few weeks ago, but now they have changed their mind and surmounted a little bit from their forecast, I think it would be a good idea. The budget will give it at least the date and time of the operation to be uninstalled. I don't have the time or the basis to go over the business of this particular company, and I'll take my hat off for a financial committee for having to do it to some extent. Hv. The budget cannot help you to examine just a business and the basis for these decisions. I'd especially like to point the tail. The budget should consider a few factors. This is suggested in securing government interests and the state responsibility bill for only 15 billion, 90% of additional loans for a business loan. I see here in this document that it is also estimated that the Society is building at least 20 billion in new stocks. I'm concerned if there's any way to sell and whether it's the state bank that's going to guarantee it. Second, the company also assumes that they will be reassigned to their business loans, which had shut down loans to the company recently but intend to open them again in view of the possibility that the Icelandic government will back up an additional staff loan line. But these banks are both state banks, the Landsbank and the Bank of Iceland, and I think they're gathering in the interests of the state in money, I don't feel that it's possible to just watch the state of responsibilities in this. It seems to me that there are 17 billion people who are going to be operating loan lines at the two banks, Iceland Bank and Lands Bank. That's what I'm asking, and I'm going to point it out. The legal committee would not be worth considering whether the interests of the State were better paid if it had been made conditional, or even all, of these business loan lines came from the bank rather than from two federal banks. This is now one factor, one way to reduce the national risk. I wondered, too, how. The budget is going to look at the competition. There are more companies in this film, one Icelandic company and other companies flying into this market, and we know that the ESA, the EFTA System, has issued that it's okay to give this state responsibility. This does not change the fact that there may be other viewpoints that can make the State more relevant to other markets. I would also like to direct it to the Committee to get it straight on how landing courses in the United States are conducted. It is claimed, by the person on this machine, that it may be difficult for other societies to obtain landing clearance in the United States. That's why it's important to keep Icellands going, and I'm putting a lot of emphasis on that, too. That point is vital. Air travel to the United States provides the basis for safe transport to and from Iceland on both sides of the ocean. I believe it is important to know if you are right enough to allow landing permits in the United States to cost blood, sweat, and tears. I don't think that's likely to happen in view of the fact that we've had experience with WOW a lot of the time that WOWir flew there. There is also a need to consider how government assistance has been used in foreign lands. It would be interesting to see what it's like in Europe. We see that the government is being assisted by large, stable associates who have a lot of possessions but lack cash. Icelands do not have much of their possessions. I think there's a problem, at least not much of that property, except maybe hotel buildings, these days. Well, I don't have a basis to deal with this, but I'm not sure what to do. A committee to consider all of this. But finally I want to say that I am very optimistic for the Icelandic nation about flying to and from Iceland, even in the immediate future. [[The president calls.]] Of course, the land needs to be open to the fulfillment of that optimistic outlook.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u90	A respectable president. I'd especially like to welcome these views that happened by then. Senator. I think that's exactly what's necessary. A financial committee will consider these matters very specific to me. I like it. A senator may be, for the first time, in a manner similar to the city councilman Pawel Bartoszek. He wrote atTwetter about three of the government's actions. First, she opened the country, second of all, she shut it down, and third, she gave the airline national responsibility. After the country was closed, the riverbed is, in effect, tightened in the view that it is difficult for me to overlook the state responsibility for Icelands unless there are other data that can help with other means. We haven't been able to see it in the government yet, and I don't like it. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council after this meaningful talk: Go. A senator's notice is that the matter is taken out of the council or that it will be a bit rough. A senator will vote in return if it comes in the same way from a financial committee? And second of all, I'd like to ask who. A senator, because I have only mentioned competitive business and the loan line is provided for the entire kit, and within it are elements that are highly competitive with other traveling agencies, although they are reduced: they count below. A senator made sure that the loan line will not be drawn and that funds are partly used in competitive business? Counts 'em out. A senator may be at risk of loans and Kingdom responsibilities to become a competitive business?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u91	Hv. A senator is optimistic if he thinks I'm informing here on how matters are handled by the Party of Independence. What is said at the council of Independence Party will remain in the council. Well, at least not at all. Senators are often excited about how some senators vote, even before they are about 1st. I'd like to say what I've said before when I'm asked about this: of course, I'd like the matter to be signed and then to make a decision afterwards, especially in this case because, as I mentioned, I'm not in general in favor of state responsibility. It doesn't have to be surprising, but I have a lot of sympathy for flying in general, and I admit even before here to feel the feelings of this blessed company, Icelands, which I've never worked for, and in itself, I've had a lot more suffering than I ever had in my life. And yet that's just how it is, and I can't explain why I feel about the company. I'd just like to know if it's the same with the other guys. Because if that is the case, members of the council need to be in a position to determine what viewpoints are made here. I'm going to let the case rot in what? A legal committee with high expectations for those sitting there. It also asked me if I thought that the state of responsibility would be used in competitive business. It's just around the corner. If it is tried or this loan, it is of course to run a business on this business and its business is all in some competition in all kinds of fields.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u92	A respectable president. As for that matter, I think that a financial committee must somehow direct the loan line solely to the flight control point, which is in the least competition, and after the government's decision, in effect, nothing, as it is said. Then we're just in the same boat, me and what. A senator, how this matter will be processed to a financial committee, how we will receive information, and what changes will be made to make in mind. I like what you're doing. A senator manifests certain feelings. I'm happy, too, and I'm glad that feelings are drawn into this because I think it's just right by then. A senator, in part, depends on his emotions, perhaps in direct contact with this sentence, at the end of the flight to the country. It's part of the problem, but it's not the biggest change. In my opinion, at the council, we have a heavy responsibility... to secure our infrastructure into and out of the country. Illelands - Is It Best? How do we guarantee human resources, knowledge, and experience at the company that is totally undisputed? It's something we can't lose. All of these are important variables, including the emotional factors. The body of elders needs to be examined and reviewed, and people are deeply moved by their prayers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u93	A respectable president. Not to be overlooked is the large workplace, one of the largest in the country, and all of us know someone or have someone who works there so that pressure comes from different sources. That's also what I mean with emotion, but as I said in my talk, it's important that you get over your feelings and try to put the whole situation to freezing. Because of what? Of course, the chairman of the budget is sitting here, but all depends on what comes out of the committee and that view. I can't add anything to it. I think it needs to be considered in that big context. I don't think there's any doubt that a lot of people can guarantee a flight to and from Iceland. I don't think anyone has to wonder about it today. Ten airlines have flown in the last few years to and from the country. It's a matter of time before it's all over the company. It's just a matter of time. Drivers come and go, companies come and go, and that is true of the airline and the airport like any other professional. It also needs to be kept in mind, huh? A senator, who is best qualified to make sure of their transportation. It is true that people do so outside the council and, in any case, we do. Senators are, I think, in very small ways to determine who is best qualified to run an airline in Iceland. That's why I want the market to make that decision for us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u94	A respectable president. It was very interesting that a talk presented itself. Senator on a systematicly important business and systematicly important service. We've talked about government responsibilities and how old they seem to be, and this raised some questions for me. I'm sorry for a little ride, but it's about Icelanda and other companies in this position. We've just made some changes in mails about Iceland, and that's a systematicly important service. There we obtained a specific agency that solves the problem of systematic importance services and how it is conducted, etc. This comparison comes to mind because here we have a systematicly important service, there is no doubt about it, and we find that this is a systematicly important company that serves. So, then, isn't there something out - of - date in our competitive songs or so - called antistrust, as passed through in the United States a few decades ago, where there was a great debate to protect competition and prevent isolation? We are always in this conflict between size-separation, resulting in a single entity that destroys the market, and then we try to retract it, from the size of the economy, etc. If we become involved in a systematicly important service, is there not something wrong with the competition?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u95	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. I'd like to say, the brain's recommendation, when it points to the possibility that competitive legislation is now out - of - date. It may not be out - of - date, I'm not necessarily sure of it, but there are many things in the competitive rights that humans haven't really thought about to the end. That's it. You're right. A senator mentioned, and I agree with him that there is, of course, something unusual if one is determined to focus on a business in particular. The competition rights are also very much discussed in certain products. It can be a long debate between enterprises with competitive authorities, costing them hundreds of millions of dollars, about whether one product is called the local product of another product. This can be of great importance, just to the life or death of certain enterprises, to define whether the company is in the market position and how to behave. There is now one thing in this competitive legislation that needs to be revised, and the same might be said if you want to look at certain companies, they are the basis for some kind of service. You need to reason specifically that some enterprise is so systematicly important that no one else can provide the ministry. What I would like to say is that in order for a company to be considered systemically important it has to be so that there is literally no one else who can render the service. This may be the case with Icelanda that no other airline is allowed landing in the United States. That may be the case. I don't know. That's why I'm pointing it to why. The body of elders to give special consideration to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u96	A respectable president. These two aspects are closely related, on the one hand, to the state - responsibilities that are eliminated and to competitive laws. The law on Kingdom responsibilities specifically discusses the effect Kingdom responsibilities have on competition, so it is not too far away from our thinking about it. How can an enterprise become systematicly important, just because it provides a systematicly important service? Is it not, then, a monopoly that is a competitive problem? And if we give a systematicly important company the State responsibility in addition to monopoly, are we not at the top of ice cream? I wondered, because this morning, we on a budget committee had visitors who said they were ready to cover this service, which is so important to keep and ensure flights to and from Iceland. Are we thinking of a possible solution similar to that of the mailman, a specific public service officer? Who knows? Was that possible? This is the first possibility we have to consider and ask what possibilities were considered. If a number of possibilities were considered, it's great, then we'll have a discussion on the benefits and shortcomings of any possibility. If there was only one possibility of examination, isn't that a bit reprehensible? We heard about it at a meeting at the Ministry of Financial Affairs the other day that the possibility of money on the part might have, for example. They were knocked out of the table very quickly and were not really part of the whole process. Why? On the budget board, we need to start by asking: " What possibilities were there, and can you tell us what were the benefits and weaknesses of what were possible for us?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u97	A respectable president. I got it. I got it. A senator asking the questions he feels he needs to ask. But because he is a competitive right to think and a monopoly, it is so in the competitive legislation, and it is a bit much, it is, in fact, that the monopoly is never created except by the government. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't like anyone else. A position of monopoly is created only through the government. Examples of this include, for example, The administration of the State by some means, by airplane or by bus, to some special people. Thus, there is a monopoly. That is exactly what the competitive right often refuses to face; the monopoly cannot be solved by some competitive action; it must be solved by the state's coming out of business or by losing its situation. So I would be happy if I was to enter this council for another winter, for example. bill number one. A professional minister for changing competitive law, which, in fact, I think, is going a little too far. I believe there is a great need for a comprehensive review of the competitive legislation. In this matter in particular, with State responsibilities, it is also true that all government assistance can help to create a few people, reduce competition. This is why these factors are examined in that light, and I have full faith that the matter will be examined in that light. Finally, however, I would like to emphasize that the state itself is not creating situations that make it difficult for Iclanders to start operations and business again. I have full faith that Icelanders can do this if the situation exists and the country here is not really shut down for tourists. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u98	President. I've thought it was a pretty good discussion. Here are some very important questions I trust to represent. The legal committee will bring you to a committee meeting and try to find out the answers. All I've perceived is that we're all somehow trying to find out who the real way of doing it is because it's not an option for anyone. There is no one who wished in any way that a government fund would have to be used, whether by responsibilities that hopefully do not exist or by some other means, to save a private company. There was no one who wished for it. But when there were reports of a bad outcome, especially at Covid this spring, this was discussed in the Senate Hall and many who translated the government on answers to how to bring Icelands to the rescue because of the systematic importance of the company. Here we read about feelings for Icellands. I don't connect to it. I don't feel about company capitalist, that's just the way it is. It may well be. paritaprevir Ah! Andersen who spoke before me have they, but I don't have them. I don't care what the company's name is, which will fly me to the world, if I do so boldly ever to do it. I don't care what the lent capital arts that make on that flight are. To me, it's not emotional. But I don't care whether the people, the people, us, have access to this service or not as an island in the prom sea. To me, it's very simple, like, all too much in life. I think the project that we face is: How do we guarantee it as a last resort that there will be flying around now, and it will continue and it will be an opportunity for the resistance we all want to take when we are going to get defensive and get out of this condition? What is the simplest way to do so? I think we're all actually trying to find that way, and some of us believe that this is the way that the Icelandic state has a share in the union, a valid view, and some believe that it just happens, that the market will handle things, which is also a valid view. We've thought this is the last way out. Some people believe that it is not, but I feel it is more likely that we are asking the question: Is this the right way? But what are we doing? What I'm so happy about this is that this is a government warrant that may never happen. There may be times when not one dollar goes out of the treasure of the Kingdom by doing so. There are other ways in which we could relate even that money must immediately be taken out of the treasure, money that is needed for us to carry out other vital assignments. That's what I thought, plus that way. And I think it's a big addition to the fact that these are very strict terms, enormous terms on what needs to be done so that the State can become a responsible subject. In fact, it is a responsibility while the loan line is in effect. I'm gonna, Mr. President, get to talk a little bit about the terms. I feel that they have only been left alone in the discussion, and a few senator spoke as if there were no requirements for this route. So I completely disagree that, as you might say, conditions are strict, many have criticized that they are too strict, they are strict that the current shareholders are actually being cleared out. From markets, criticism has been made that conditions are too strict. I'm on the other side, though. I think the conditions are very good because I consider myself to be the head of a government fund here and that we are finding the way to transport the country, which ensures that the people in this country can enjoy the services offered by the company, both the public transport and the freight service, the safety that it offers and the amateur we are going to do. There's a huge guarantee here by permission of a president: To ensure the guarantee of a conditional and harmless reimbursement of responsible workers [...] puts the responsibility, and, after an incident, their granddaughters, to a minimum bet, their brands, their websites, their booking systems and landing permits in London and New York [...], as further upduced... This is the airline, really. They're not the planes, they're not that important either, I don't know. But it's really the airline that's staked out. Hv. For example, how did they reach this conclusion? But I think it's getting as secure as possible here. There are tremendous conditions for what the borrower can do while this is going on, if necessary. It is permitted to pay interest, to reduce stocks, or to buy things of its own, or to do other things that include the financial or property of the company at the disposal of shareholders or linked parties. That's a very strict thing to do. It is also condition that the motherhood and flight drivers' headquarters become in Iceland, which means what? Yes, Icelandic bull contracts. We all watched what happened here during the summer, and we condemned many when the Illelands acted in the shameful way that it did to the stewardess. We're here to make sure there's an Icelandic collective contract, and we all want it. I've never understood anything else at the discussion, that the motherhood and flight drivers' headquarters will be here. There are other terms of terms set up by the president to create a limit to the use of the loan. It is not only these terms but also the terms on which to use the funds: Remuneration should only be allowed to make use of loans per the contract in order to meet the general cost of borrowing in accordance with the company's management programme. The overall cost of operating is considered to be high. pay and pay-related fees, management, rent, other labour-related fees, contracting and interest pay in accordance with management programmes, oil prevention for trade and services transactions, reimbursement for clients, and regular maintenance. - It's a list of what you can use for money. It's a law that these contracts go out first: In the contract, a loan should be paid. The contracts as soon as possible, and should be reimbursed to 75% of the available funds from operating loans, [...] Pre-imbursement due to improved loan status should be further implemented into the contracts. In other words, my knowledge is to ensure that the uncertainty we now face will come in order to ensure that the state responsibility will become the guarantee of their return. And even more than they just pay because, as I mentioned earlier, this is a matter of responsibility. I think we're pretty good at this. But then, of course, we hope that this is not the time for Kingdom responsibilities to be activated. For me this is the way, as I said before, which is remembered. This is the way that, whoever they are, the capitalists, the privates, the pension funds, or who they are now who own the company, mostly about putting in extra cash. There has been a right/left way in this context. I don't think there's anything left in that the state will be a partially inactive owner of a private company. I don't think there's anything left. Since the state has stepped into flight, history has shown that it is very difficult to get out of it again. There is no guarantee, although it is intended to be a temporary shareholder, that such an object can be taken care of. What is also key is that if the State is a demanding but not a shareholder, which we hope will not be, in fact, the risk is less. If things go wrong, shareholders are removed from the order of the list. When you're the creditor, you'll be better in line when you're replaced. If the creditor has a mortgage or other guarantee rights in possession, the requirement is complete with the sale of the property. This does not happen with shareholders. There is yet another reason in my mind that it would be more wise to go this way than to buy a part of the company, whether it is intended to be temporary or for a long time. I think if people have ideas that a government airline is easier to start from scratch, and I'm not suggesting it here because I think we're going to have a lot of other projects waiting for us for the next year where we need every cent of state funds. I can't wait to hear what it's like. This is a legal committee, for I feel that members of the general body of Congress have come up with very good questions that need answering many - or not many people - so I'm correcting myself, I'm not going to make a list of whom to answer, but all of them. I can't wait to see what it's like. It's going to be handled by a legal committee. But I repeat again and again what I said at the outset: I think we are in a position that none of us wanted to be. Our mission is to find the simplest and most efficient way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u99	A respectable president. I agree with those words. A senator to find the simplest and most efficient route. That we'll find the best way. That is why I have been asking what avenues were open to everything because, as the law says on public finances, it is stated when the government decides to do one thing more than another, that this was the choice offered. We made this choice because he's the best because of this, etc. Right now we don't have it in our hands why other roads were good or bad, what were the advantages and weaknesses of going or not going through the stock route, or going away, or not e.g. the service form or anything else that was available. After receiving experience, it seems unlikely that there were not so many roads that were carefully considered, even if only a relatively short decision was made, as soon as it would set aside the number of billions of these would have to be and out of the streets, instead of comparing these with some other possibility. However, this is likely to be seen in the implementation of the Commission when the Ministry is trying to answer which roads were considered. They have not yet answered that question. I just wanted to reiterate it, that's all, because of it. A senator says that he wants the best route to be chosen, whether it is supported by members of the government, just in general, and as in a financial committee, and a clear answer to that. The experience is that the answers are not very clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u100	President. I'm not riding. A legal committee has a measure of the nature of the problem. A senator more information about this than I do. I understood during the discussion earlier that the part - money route had been canceled soon, so it has directly revealed that this route was taken into consideration. I don't have a complete list of what else has been studied. However, I would like to say, Mr. President, that in the best world of all worlds, where we are not in the middle of a pandemic, and where we live under the circumstances that each day can make a difference, since the government's projects are about to do it -- well, I want to say four, five terms, and we finish in a few months, we also need to work fast. This is not the time in which we sit down with our excel documents and examine everything we think of to look at so that we spend all the time we think we need, because there are always other ways to look at that. During grad management, you need to work fast. The choices must be made quickly. It must be examined quickly, finding the best way, as we do here, and then having the courage to go that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u101	A respectable president. I wholeheartedly agree. This must be done in a very fast and safe way. I'm simply asking, "What are the options that were available after all? ' When you work fast, you start by gathering as many ideas as you can and then process them quickly, throwing some away very quickly, as was evidently done through the stock route, other choices perhaps live a little longer. While more data are being collected on the potential benefits. The question is, What potential benefits survived? How long did they survive in the decision - making process? Because we've heard that this conversation with Icelandi has been going on since March. It is likely, though, that some of the ideas we have wondered about back then. It's not that much of a crisis control. We're talking about one week of the council, but this conversation has been going on for several months. It's our part: all right, we'll have a week, but you've been working on it for a few months. Show us the data that has been involved in all these months so that we can make this decision every week. We're ready to do the job, to do it fast and fast, of course, but bring the data on at least. Hv. A senator spoke here and extolled this way. That's what's gonna happen. A senator having something to compare it with that if this is the only way other options are not taken that much. This could be a very good way, I'll totally agree, the terms look just fine, but there could be a way that looks much better if we were to see it. I haven't got to see her, so I don't know if it's true or not. I'm just saying it's a possibility, that's the problem I'm facing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u102	President. I've been listening to what. A senator will have these objections to all the council members, I think, and I'll be more surprised than ever. First, I wasn't necessarily admiring that way, so I thought it was the best way in the whole world. I think this is a reasonable way in this situation, but I can't believe that there's a way that makes sense until I've looked at all the other ways - it's a reality I don't understand, that I can't admire this way any other than that I've ruled out someone else. [[Up front.]] That's pretty much what it was. A senator said. I can go to the movies and feel the movie I'm looking at, and I love it, without seeing a thousand other movies or all the other movies. Each time we have to make a decision, we do not have only three to six versions of the law and primers, and then we're out of here until one is left. These songs are the best. This is not how it works. This may work in some excel documents on a computer. It's not what I'm getting at. It's not what I'm talking about. Senator. I approach this question with my first question, as I tried to come to my point: What is the best, the last way to achieve this goal? What is it I want to achieve? I would like to make sure that I never have to get a cent out of the state's budget. If we find a way to make that happen, don't you think that's nice? I think so. This is the way I've seen that can fulfill all the wishes I have in this difficult matter, in this position that no one wants to be in. If I'm shown a road between two places, sometimes I'm leaving because I know he'll lead me to where I want to go without my seating over Google Maps and looking at all the other ways between A and B.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u103	V.E.G. President. This discussion has been interesting, and it is true to conclude that this case is being brought in for the same reason that many of the other issues related to the present epidemic are involved, i.e. Because of the government's fear of decision and the obsession with the Government of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, has decided something else. This occurred previously, e.g. ... ina matterwhat. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttir's son Proppé, in answer to him, mentioned that the government had chosen a route of five of the nine whom a psychiatrist had laid up. It is not necessarily fair to place it on an aesthesiologist or some other official to offer subversive suggestions, smart ones, and that politicians don't have to make decisions. The main work of politicians and main projects is making decisions. They're not all right, some of them are wrong, but we're stuck with the need to make these decisions and to be responsible for them. What happens if I don't? If, for example, This change in the border made on Thursday last week proves to be a complete failure, and in February it is seen that hundreds of companies have paid off the funds and thousands of people have added to the unemployment record what they are going to do? Run a D.A.D.? Mr. President. I think this is the greatest poem the government is doing and we're getting another one later. We're getting an extension to two months on a spring plan, and unfortunately it's been this way. The government is so confused and aimless that it is taking a fluke and huge leap everywhere, because it lacks goals, goals, and goals, and there is a lack of clear policy. Now I'm going to say something. So we're discussing this matter, we're discussing two matters, and especially one thing, is a state responsibility for the Iceldir. This Kingdom responsibility is needed far more today than was needed ten days ago. Why? Yes, because the government shut the country down on Thursday last week. And the person standing here was on his way to the country on Thursday. I checked out the flight we were supposed to take to Iceland, and on Wednesday, the plane was all packed up. When we boarded, she was placed at 40%. It's just one flight, Mr. President. There were 80 people who had retired at last to travel to Iceland because there had suddenly been a change of direction and the border had closed down again. What about the tourism, which some seem to consider to be some form of tourism and talk down to, in fact, a professional way that has made a huge income for us in the past few years and about 25,000 work for? Are we just going to let it all leak out because we don't have the guts to make decisions? It is obvious that last week the government did not agree to close the country again. It will come, for example. magazines in the speech of the highest degree. Secretary of travel that she is not happy with her decision. Then I'd like to mention two more things. I was shocked this morning when it was the highest. During discussions about what the government wants to do, the prime minister said that it would be appropriate to open the country again next week. I must say, Mr President, to whom does the government think it is speaking? Does the government think it is possible to turn off and for tourism every ten days, depending on the country's population? It is next certain that in the period between now and spring, very few if any international airlines fly to Iceland because they do not trust the Icelandic government and the Icelandic government. Same with travel agencies, they won't sell trips to Iceland because they don't trust the situation here. Let's go over the situation here. V.E.G. A traveling minister said it was proper to consider how the New Zealand had done so. I would have thought it was more intimate to see how our neighbors, Danir, have done it. In Denmark there is now a similar infection rate in this so - called second wave of epidemic disease. They have about as many infections as we do for an oscillary number. They haven't closed their borders yet. However, they have serious border surveillance, just so old-fashioned, where the people who come to Denmark are asked - as Rogers Rogers was asked by Halli and Laddi - what they're doing here, where they're going, for what purpose, where they're staying and for how long and then they're let through. I think the monarchy is that it was wise to take a screening on the border, i.e. one scan. The cost of these screenings has been talked about by the cost of monitoring those who are screened and then allowed into the country. I think we should weigh this up a little because once we screened it to see if anyone has a underlying infection or not, if he is infected, we'll let him into the country by condition of letting him know where he's going to be. If he does not give the right information and needs to be pursued, it is easy to dismiss such a person. V.E.G. The secretary of finance said this morning that a group had been appointed to investigate the impact, e.g. closing of the border as it has been last week on the economy, etc. I just thought about it when I heard this, and I wasn't going to believe it: would men cut down the cod population, or fish it, about 20%, and then appoint a committee to check its economic effects? This is completely absurd, Mr. President, and only an example, unfortunately, that the government is a decision-makers and has no clear policy to work on. Sadly, she can't see the finish, but that's exactly what we need now. We need to see the finish line, and we need to start now and we should have it started, as I wrote a few articles about us. We need to start already by building up the society we want to see when this sickness is down, not when it is down, but now, so that we are ready when it falls. But a clear course is missing, and it really hurts. I'm afraid that's the way it is. It will be followed by what has been said about the day's work, whether or not to render a Kingdom responsibility to Icelanda. Senators who spoke before me spoke on the other hand about feelings and feelings of inadequacy. I tend to agree, as always in the case of opinion, to put feelings outside parentheses because they are not at home to make decisions. The decision must be clear and sound, not emotional. So, what do we see? Yes, it is obvious that this company, which we are wondering whether to support or not, has about 4,700 people on the job, they may have dropped a little recently, and it will be more predictable, if the area of the border continues, the only airline flying here for quite some time. On the other hand, people have said that there is a lack of competition. Until now, there has been no lack of competition for air traffic to Iceland. Last year, I think 60 airlines flew here during the summer hours and quite some over wintertime, so there's no shortage. What we also need to watch is the position of the airlines flying here. These include e.g. Lufthansa, who became a 20% owner of that society recently. These include the SAS, which enjoys government skills after the virus began to clot. It is, therefore, not in itself a question of whether Icelanda is the largest airline in Iceland. Rather, it is a matter of looking at the competition, each and any one that's going to compete with it. I used to say that people used to think that it was merely a matter of tourism, and people have been talking as if it were some kind of a monster walking in front of each man's door and crying at money and stuff. It's not. We need to look at the fact that if we do not respond in any way to this, this article will result in a disaster. It's going to be a bit heavy first when at some point it's going to be necessary to rebuild a business of bankruptcy all over the country because we haven't checked out. It is not natural for us in our government to be aware of the government, since it does not listen to us, even though we have tried to offer some suggestions, very good, and practical suggestions. Using proben, no government group in Iceland has now, at least not so much as to remember during this council, the only case of the government that has to deal with the challenge of Covid, but rather than take matters that are difficult and complex, such as this matter, has been handled in a very short time by the government. I really hope that the payment, the rapid payment here in the future, will not harm us. Of course, there is danger. But this may also be because cases that have come in and repeatedly enter this area because they were neglected at first, as the government was pointed out when they first appeared, but the government is not listening. But that the matter we are discussing, whether to give the State of Illelands responsibilities. I have to agree with what. paritaprevir Kolbini Óttarsson Proppér said this is probably the best way to ensure that the company is working, i.e. if things go wrong, the state is not a mule-bound, part-and-rich bonding, and this is likely to be part of a society's ability to earn enough money to get through this scrap. I think it would be very difficult for us if a contaminant company like this, with all these employees, didn't get unscathed, or who remembered the situation, which we all believe and hope, and know will be temporary. In the meantime, however, we need to make the decisions that work, see the finish line, and have a clear, clear view of what we want to do. Since the government doesn't do it, I again have this one piece of advice for the government, which I have made several times out of this public office, that it might be worth one Mass for the government to call before in the office of government opposition to review a case which the government would like to offer, better to see the eyes than the eye. Everyone's ready to step on and with the government and give a hand. All we have to do is that the government is not going to let much of it go looking for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u104	Mr. President. In effect, I asked for the opposite for a twofold purpose. I thought that I would have to take an answer to call for the senator's position on the matter of the council here, but it was said that he considered it the last way to help keep the Icelands in business. I could see that, by so doing, he was supporting me. A senator's case. If that is a misunderstanding, I would like to have more articles about it and how it is. A senator sees it. The other reason why I asked for an answer was merely to protest the claim that the government did not have a clear policy or a vision when it comes to these issues, for it has just been shown to be a course and a vision, and the aim is that there will be a well - organized society in all areas, that most people who are not infected with the virus and that the health system is able to care for those who become ill. It's perfectly clear. It's been lying around all the time. Mr President, is my speech due or is it time to fall apart?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u105	The time has come for me to suggest that a speaker finishes the questions and then we get an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u106	So I want to ask you why. A member of Congress: Does he believe that only one line is to be set, not to the recommendation of a psychiatrist, and not to adapt to what is happening on a global scale when it comes to the viral epidemic, but to set just one end goal and get there in some way? I think we still agree on the finish line. It didn't seem clear to me, but the line of government is clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u107	President's trying to fix the clock.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u108	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for this answer. I have to disagree with her about the line being clear, because it's not. Therefore, because of the failure of the first edition, second edition, and third edition, the situation has been repeated and repeated. Does this senator here want to continue straight without taking any action around us? Not at all. That's why I'm pointing Dani out. Danir has a very good border guard. Danir does not have a screen on the border. Danes have a red and yellow list of nations that move between them depending on how they deal with the virus, depending on whether or not these countries will be allowed to come to Denmark. It's very simple. Maybe that's what I'm calling for instead of having the country open one week and shut down another. You don't screw from tourism like a tap, I'm sorry. This roundabout means that foreign airlines, tourism agencies, don't sell trips to Iceland because they don't trust Icelandic governments, because they don't speak clearly. It's not just what it says, it's their opinion on machines, etc. That's what worries you. The anxiety is also the need to pull decisions out of the government almost in the first day. They come, but first they're reported in a town somewhere clear, and then they start making the suggestions. Actually, it's a bit of a reverse approach to what I think is wise. And that's why I told you before that it would be worth one Mass for the government to carry the opposition to big decisions to make good decisions, to make them right and to stand, because the policy is not clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u109	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, but the answer remains, which I cannot understand: Is it so? A senator disagrees that advice and advice from a psychiatrist is being followed? That's what's been done so far. My question is simple: A senator should not seek advice from a psychiatrist when it comes to the treatment strategy, which may include: Do you have to go around the border?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u110	Of course, any advice provided by a psychiatrist should be listened. But cross-border disease is not isolation. [[Up front.]] - I hear something running from a side room, Mr. President. I'm asking for it to be stopped. It is not so simple that it is a matter of health care alone. It's not, it's economic, it's going to be past the highest level. The secretary of finance today is appointing a group to examine the economic effects of disease prevention and this virus. Now, a week after the close of the border, a group is to be arranged to see what happened here a week ago because humans have naturally reacted when they saw the effect of airplanes being half empty and more than that in one night, because they went too far. They went too far in it and didn't trust to make their own decision. They chose five suggestions of nine suggested by a psychiatrist, such as a dog. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé said earlier. There was no one suggestion that men themselves had to try on what was recommended. The politician's work is such that he has decisions to make. [[Up front.]] That is why it is so dangerous to give up the right to those who do not have the responsibility to do so for you. No one will, in the end, do so because we are responsible. We are responsible for these decisions, and we cannot put it upon someone else to make those decisions for us because we feel uncomfortable or bad or something like that. We simply have to do it ourselves. That's why we're the kin, to lead, especially in times like now. That is why it is so bad that the course is not clear and that one should take a flipper and a big jump each week after another.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u111	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to correct the change in various laws to meet the economic impact of pandemic crown virus, but it is a further workforce operation. A domestic labour market is still very uncertain because of the spread of the crown virus, but it is clear that there has already been a major recession in various sectors since the outbreak of the pandemic. As the situation is today, no one knows exactly how long the contractions will last - except maybe the wind. A senator who spoke here, pretending to know everything under the sun - but during this time, we must try to counteract the effects and ensure as well as we can that the workforce's negative effects will be remembered. Most changes in the bill are temporary and result from these circumstances and are not expected to be permanent. However, in this regard, I have decided to launch in the autumn of work on the overall review of unemployment insurance in cooperation with the labour market partners, for many aspects of the law requiring revision and full solidarity are involved among labour market members. The temporary changes proposed in the bill include the provision of temporary payment for the pay of persons who are infested with the National Competent Authority without being infected but suggest that the period covered by the law be extended to continue until the end of 2021. The aim of these changes is to ensure that individuals can continue to follow the health authorities'instructions to be diseased without worrying about their survival as long as the medical resources are used, but it is extremely important that people follow official recommendations in this respect. Furthermore, the temporary change in unemployment insurance law is proposed that the next two months be permitted to pay unemployment along with a decrease in employment rate. It is also suggested that a person classified as secure within the unemployment insurance system gains temporary rights to income - related unemployment improvements for up to six months in place of the current law to a maximum of three months, since he has not fully used his right to such improvements during the current period of improvement. Is it assumed that if the person did not fully secure this right before October 1, 2021, the sufferer's rights will fall to such improvements, we must believe that the conditions we live in today's labour market will be completely different and better after more than one year. Last April, a special coordination group was established on employment and education resources and was designed to examine the status and potential education of students and jobseekers due to changed circumstances in Icelandic society following the crown virus. The team has proposed educational and work market measures for 2020,2022. One of these proposals is part of the temporary change in unemployment insurance laws proposed by the bill, but it is an opportunity for the jobseekers to study to strengthen their jobs in a job market. In this regard the bill assumes that the employment agency will be allowed to make a special study contract with jobseekers that will study the conditions of the campaign without affecting their legal rights for unemployment. It is a one - for - one period for each subject in the campaign, with a view to the practice of the study in the spring of 2021, the fall of 2021, or the spring of 2022. Some changes the bill assumes on unemployment insurance law are not temporary. It is suggested that jobseekers should be reassigned to study while obtaining unemployment benefits, but it is clear that significant changes have recently taken place in organized study. Among other things, a jobseeker will be allowed to study together with work organized by a qualified institution without losing her right to unemployment. Since students are expected to be involved in a workforce, it is normal not to influence the potential of jobseekers to work for an effective job search or to be able to do the job oer. Furthermore, it is suggested that jobseekers should be allowed to complete the current cycle of unemployment insurance with no impairment of the individual's rights within the unemployment insurance system. Part of the co-ordination arrangement mentioned earlier was to support the possibility of individuals who temporarily disappear from a labour market because of a disease or accident to become back active workers in the labour market. In line with the proposals given in the bill, changes in unemployment insurance laws are proposed to increase the likelihood that they will become back participants in the labour market after they become employed again. It is thus suggested that the rights of those guaranteed within the unemployment insurance system do not fail until 12 months, instead of six months, according to current rights from the day the individual became employed again. As a result, a person who temporarily disappears from the workforce because of illness or accident will be expected to have more time to use the services and assistance of the labour oce to become a new participants in the labour market after the workforce is reached. At the same time, it is suggested that the job-related remuneration employed by the payman at the time he is considered unworkable by a disease or by an accident corresponds to the thirteen week period of full - time employment, with certain conditions fulfilled. It is then suggested that the calculation of an years of work done in store unemployment insurance should be carried out to the last 24 months instead of the current court of law, from the time it provided for the assured retirement of an unworkable disease or accident. I think our public president is aware that the uncertainty of the current employment market will last longer than we anticipated at first, and I fear unemployment will increase further from what has already become the case. How important it is, then, that we secure our position in this challenging situation and stand with the families of the country, and that is what we do with these measures. So I strongly emphasize that the bill will be approved here at the General Assembly as first, in view of the urgency of the actions involved in the bill. I also want to state that this is not, as we have seen, the first operation of the government in labour markets. Nor will this be the last action of the government in this category, for it is clear that in the weeks and months, we will need to be on our toes and be ready to respond in a rapid and cooperative manner with all concerned. That's what we're stressing and will continue to do. It is one of the highest powers in the government that it is ready to react, ready to review its plans and listen, and we will do so, and we will, to form on the extended part-change process in this bill, to have a conversation with the labour market about possible changes in this regard. Finally, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u112	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. This is a very important case I'd like to introduce to you at 2nd. I wanted to take this opportunity, though, and I wanted to ask the highest. Minister to the closing grants associated with this. Now the deadline is 6 g's. track No. 38/2020, which we agreed on at the beginning of the summer, to expire September 1. I think it is very important to extend this deadline to apply because the tax has not been able to complete the application process and request a review of the decision. In this way, companies who are in the position not to be able to submit an application for postponement can do so. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he intends to put in place the application deadline for closing grants to be extended something further, which should be completed September 1 as mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u113	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this answer. The bill for closing power is at custody at the highest level. There is also his custody on the basis of the financial and economic secretary Bjarni son of Benediktsson and the appointed agency, the tax that has it to treat. So I can't really answer questions that depend on that institution or how the management process is going in there. But in general, I'd like to say that the government has worked hard to be flexible, and we, when necessary, stretch out to both our jobs and our homes. But I've got to be encouraging. A senator to direct this inquiry and speculation to the minister holding the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u114	Mr. President. I'm quite aware that the matter is of financial guardianship, but my approach was whether or not. A minister would take advantage of it within the government for this law to be extended. A number of companies are in the position of waiting for the tax reimbursement, and the deadline is simply running out. So it's urgent that we fail, and I hope to the highest. A minister is an ally in that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u115	A respectable president. Social Ministry accepts this challenge. A senator and will adopt the case at the highest level. Financial and economic ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u116	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the presentation of this bill. I'm not the highest senator. A minister who thinks he knows all things under the sun, but knows it, and agrees with the highest. Minister, to most likely unemployment in this country will increase in the coming weeks and months. The future is somewhat lost, yet it is clear that not everything will be as it was after two or three months. That's all we know. That's why I want to ask the highest. Ministers as soon as I welcome the prolongation of income-related unemployment benefits by three months, whether he is aware that in August 12,000 people, the inhabitants of this country, received basic employment benefits from a labour agency after the tax of 242,000. It's the highest. A minister willing to join us in the United Nations, which has prepared a bill and made it available in the Senate to raise basic employment benefits so that they will be near the lowest wage in the country to minimize the great damage that is anticipated to be caused by a number of homes and families in this country? Is he willing to spin with us in the United States to reach the lowest wage of 335,000 bucks?? I'll ask you some more questions in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u117	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this question, saying that earlier my comments about a senator knowing all that was under the sun were not directed to the point. paritaprevir Helga, the daughter of Helgadóttir, was more concerned with the man who was here on a final talk in a different language. About what question? At this point, the senator proposes the government to extend the income - related period. I've said we'll still have to look at employment practices. We are going to have a further conversation with the labour market partners, both the employment sector and the labor movement, about further action on that matter, and perhaps more on the sidelines of the business community. The job reform right is something we'll take a closer look at. I'd like to point out that the government is doing a lot of work on that situation, and there's no way that more is being done because we're going to have to take further action as unemployment persists. This year an estimated 74 billion are affected by unemployment. To put this in perspective, the figure was 24 billion in 2009, the first year after the collapse, so we put three times the amount in unemployment rates, i.e. Government funds, but the year after the collapse of the economy. I know that there is a great need. We are taking important steps with prolongation of the income-related period. But, as I say, we're not ruling out, we're going to go over the situation and we're going to do it, and we're going to have now over the next few weeks a closer conversation with the labour market members about the necessary next action in the labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u118	Mr. President. Thank you very much. But a minister must inform him that families in Iceland who have to support themselves and their children do not buy the food and pay the bills with 11 - year - old numbers. Today, when there are more than 20,000 people on unemployment records and increasing numbers, when 12,000 people were in those months with basic cutbacks, boast that they are putting more into the group than they were 11 years ago. That's not an honest presentation, topv. Minister. Today, 12,000 people are receiving 240,000 bucks. per month. We have families to catch, the highest. Minister. These are the children who can't afford to buy a coat to attend school. Now that we're talking about time and thinking about it, I'd also like to point out that it's quite extraordinary short vision on the part of the government to extend the part-back pathway by two months, when it is totally clear that it will not all be done after two months, but will not go the way of many of our neighboring states, to have the way for 12 or 18 months, to make sure that it is all clear that there is an employment relationship. Two months. It is totally anticipated that it will not work in the present condition. We need to try to avoid myths by giving others the opportunity to work part - time. [[The president calls.]] The contribution route from the highest. Minister was a good idea. It was a good idea to try to secure a recruitment relationship, but two more months are just not enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u119	A respectable president. I want to thank you. For the answer, a senator said: A comparison of numbers was not intended to minimize the need to add but to call attention that we are making enormous sums of money to pay on unemployment from a government fund. Whoever's standing here doesn't regret it. However, the big thing is how we can strengthen the workforce and get people back to work. What I said was we're going to have a further conversation with the labour market members about the next action. There we turn to the unemployment insurance system and what changes are needed. We have been regularly opening these laws since Covid came up in such a way that we are now 74 billion, which is about 50 billion more than we anticipated this year. Will we need further action? Yeah, we'll need them. As for the part-change process, I think, and I'm convinced, it is very reasonable at this point to extend it briefly while having a conversation about what we see taking on as a tool for the labour market. We have to look at this in context. Just like what? A senator pointed out that the partial improvement was of utmost importance when the greatest finals were here in the community. When shopping, hair salons, beauty salons, etc. they were closed by then very many were on the sideline. Today, the number of these has fallen very much, and the total number of these has increased by well - improved individuals. In this situation, and the recently used disease prevention measures, it is wise to sit down with those who will use the resources, whether it is a company, a home, or a person, and discuss what we see in the next steps, and that is what we are doing with the extension, and I am convinced that this will lead to a good decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u120	Mr. President. Here's a bill for the legislation on the change of various laws to face the economic effects of a pandemic crown virus that has to do with unemployment and further workforce action. There are some good things on the bill. I'm glad, for example, for the United States, that the government has finally listened to us in the Union when it comes to the need to extend the unemployment period by three months. It's well done and it could have been done sooner, for example. When we made that suggestion earlier this summer. You still celebrate what's done well. I also rejoice that it does not extend the part-change route, but it is quite the drawer that the government did not trust in extending this important route for longer than two months. Why? Yes, because I think and have counted all the time, and I spoke up in spring for the fact that it was important to maintain an employment relationship between employees and professional drivers rather than to put a lot of energy into promoting people's resignations. I'm sorry, Mr. President, the government set up a trip for some who actually promoted reports, and that's why there was a significant decrease in the number of partial reformers. This bill shows that their numbers have declined greatly. By the mid - August, there were 36,000 people on the way of improvement. Some went to work, some were no longer required to be on part - time reforms, but it is impossible to overlook the fact that 21,000 people are on unemployment today, some of whom were better off on the list than on unemployment record. Some have not arrived on unemployment records because they have made a notice of the government. At the end of a notice period, possibly September 1 following a direct reference to the company to the granting of a deadline, it is clear that the number of persons on unemployment will be greatly increased. We in the United States have provided a bill to correct the changing of unemployment insurance laws and the law on the responsible payment of extending the time-instruction period, thus celebrating this bill of social security, which prolongs it from three months to six months, but also increasing basic non-employment. This is of great importance because basic employment benefits are too low, they are $100,000. by tax. It is very difficult for all of this large group, which in August of the month was 12,000 persons and will be more in the next month, to live on such a low supply. That's for sure. This month, 12,000 people had to support themselves and their families at 240,000 dollars. As I said earlier, these people can't be expected to pay their bills by putting more money on the lawsuit today than they were 11 years ago, it's not like that. People don't pay their bills with 11 years of age. Since others are unemployed, people do not pay their bills, so we need to put more money on the budget. The numbers speak for themselves. That's 240,000 bucks. But the lowest wage in the country is 335,000. This is not particularly high dose. You wonder, " How does the government sustain families in the winter? ' I think it's a very low dose and I think it's strange, when you look at a suggestion for the prolongation of the part-way, why it's decided to extend it by two months. If you don't need the part-change route, like I thought it was the best. Social Ministers suggest that, people simply cut off these options. But if it can help employers to keep people in their 50 percent of their jobs for more than two months, they will always be useful to society. This is evident because these people go to unemployment benefits after this, and it is always better to have some work and have a chance to increase in their job rather than be out of work. I would like to discuss these suggestions on students because when they were presented in the media during the days, they could be understood as if it were now opening up for people who have unemployment records. On the other hand, when the bill is discovered, you can see that those on unemployment will be able to register for studies that are part of the school system as studies with work, and I rejoice that it is at least You've been letting people study like that. Commendation for what is well done is vital. But this study, which is usually in college, is enormously expensive. That's gonna cost, as far as I know, about 4 million. K. going to a two-year university education in the University of Iceland, which is for work, 4 billion. K. for that study. You wonder, " How can I pay for it when I have lost my job? ' It is also stated in the provisional Regulation that the labour oce will be allowed to make a special study agreement with one jobseeker who is guaranteed within the unemployment insurance system and who commits to the jobseeker's commitment to pursue a study that he or she has chosen in consultation with the labour organisation's adviser and who is subject to the effort of learning is an opportunity, after his skills and position have been evaluated. The requirements for this are the need for the jobseeker to be in an active search and registered without employment at least Six months before he asked for a contract. If we realize that the jobseeker has e.g. On the day of July 1st, when such provisions were made, the registered unemployed date of September 1 is due and should have met this requirement by March 1. Of course, this means that a headphone 2020 and a spring 2021 are out of the picture for this person. But okay. What's not to be seen in this bill is that for students who have worked part-time with school, as 50 percent of students do according to their student society information, nothing is done. For that group, nothing is done. Part of that group has no rights on student loans or scholarships, either because they have completed their rights there or possibly because they have had some problems in their lives before they began studying, which makes them unworthy of any support from the Service Fund. This group must now leave school. These people, who are probably the ones we should most resort to, now need to give up their studies, but they also need those who receive this support because they can complete their term for support from the government but must not continue to study. In effect, students are being told to stop studying so that they can take advantage of the government's actions. You think about these ideas. It's good to invite those who have unemployment records to study, and it sounds really good. But I'm worried about how much is going. The bill is also increasing the number of copies that a student can make during a semester without risking unemployment improvements from 10 to 12 ECTS units. No one really understands why, because the full study is 30 units, whether in an after- or university degree. This move is the students I've been in touch with, and I've seen their contribution, including in this board of consultations, which was given to work on this, incomprehensible. They tried to communicate these words to everyone, but they were not listening at all. I have seen in their notes and in their books that they strongly disagree with the fact that the case has been fully cooperated with them, and they are mentioned there, and that one indication from students at this job was not met by them. They specifically desired that certain records be followed the document returned from the group, but unfortunately they did not. One more thing I'd like to mention, and that's about the effort of study. These ideas refer to study as a one - month course here in a study contract, a second study, and two other studies are discussed. This is something we do when we're in trouble. The welfare committee will have to contend with, find out what is being done in the mountains.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-08-28-133.u121	V.E.G. President. Here we will discuss a bill to correct the change in various laws to face the economic effects of a pandemic crown virus, Covid-19. As we have seen, we live in unprecedented times and face a struggle that is far from over. We look at many projects that result from the virus, and these projects need to be solved. Today, we are in one of the deepest economic depressions of many years. Unemployment is increasing, and according to the employment agency's estimate, the overall unemployment rate is likely to exceed 10%. It's been a while since we've seen these numbers on the land. This makes it easy to see that we need to respond further to the effects of the crown virus on the labour market and the economy. V.E.G. President. The government has responded in diverse ways, and one of its many teams is this bill. Here, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Education and Culture is a key role in the implementation of activities which the labour market is in great need, of course, with the spirit of forwardness. These measures ensure continued support for the labour market and for individuals without employment at present. The extension of payment is required for the remuneration of persons who are infected. These payments are paid to pay the paypayers and to persons who work independently. The extension of the partial improvement pathway, which has been shown to be effective, is also proposed. With these measures, we maintain the support of employers who have had difficulty in the circumstances of the past few months. These are generally small and medium-sized enterprises, which are of great importance to society. It is also suggested that there is a prolongation of income-related unemployment improvements. Losing jobs at times where there is limited employment has been very difficult for a number of individuals. They are individuals in almost every industry, at all ages, and throughout the country. These measures are put in place to support the labour market and pay recipients who have been affected by one or another on the effects of the crown virus. V.E.G. President. Since education is a real interest for us progressives, I want to draw special attention to the efforts of study. It is a workforce strategy that all of us should welcome. The main objective of the campaign is to encourage those who are unemployed to educate themselves and strengthen their place in a workforce. These can be unemployed for a full year of study without damage. This effort will be beneficial in short periods of time and longer. This emphasises work, engineering, and technology. Here we can create an opportunity for them to be in short supply. Education is an opportunity, a welcome opportunity that we offer to those who have become unemployed because of circumstances that no one could provide and no one would ask for. This is also an opportunity for the community and the labour market in this country. Increased differentiation can lead to increased production and biodiversity. V.E.G. President. I welcome these actions, and I believe that everyone else in this room can do the same. These are measures to ensure future support in difficult and unpredictable times. These are not permanent measures, but they are indeed bridges into the future that we need to meet. We meet with a concerted effort and cooperation.
