ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Department of Social Affairs where the request is made to provide a written answer for the requested application. 1159, on contracts of government funds, from Biri Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u2	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, about the length of a meeting, suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than the Senate dictates. However, the president is prepared to state that there will be no meeting in the night. The president had reason to believe that we would not make this comment from our meeting on Monday, but he asks: Is there a petition on the President's proposal? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] A vote for the President's proposal is requested, and it takes place at the beginning of the vote after the discussion on the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u3	President. I would like to have a discussion with you in the past two days, on Monday and yesterday, on the other hand, on the town line. I must say, Mr. President, it was most illuminating to see and hear the point. The members of the Central Party on both of these matters. I asked myself many times under the discussion, " Which rock did the Middle Ages crawl into? ' While the world meets a climate crisis, forces across all borders and every sector of society, the Central Party knows better. While all rural areas in the capital area unite, sit down and negotiate with the state of state on a project that they consider all of them to be extremely important, especially in the fight against the climate, the Middle East alone knows better. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] The evidence, models, and facts - this is of no importance to the Middle East, for it was of interest to hear many statements in the discussions that declared that they did not know what the city line was after all that time. President. I urge people not to take my word for this. There is no need to trust what I say, but to observe what is kept from this discussion on the Generals' website. [[The point is, It can't be done either.]] I encourage people to examine themselves for what ancient people there are. [[What's all this nonsense about?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u4	Mr. President. News now shows that banks and credit institutions do not take any account of the social situation. It continues to collect measures against the debt and homes of the country. Investment operations are carried out with harshness, and loan agencies continue with excerpts and forced sales. The loan shop package is completely different. It involves acting unsatisfactory on the debts of this country, despite the fact that unemployment has never been measured as much as since the start of the measurements, and many people are struggling to make ends meet. Science has begun to rise and will continue to increase the success of key currency in the past three months. A dollar has risen by more than 21 bucks, over 17%, and the euro has increased by the same dollar number, more than 15%. The greatest increase has occurred in the past 60 days, and thus prices are not affected to a significant extent within the country. Thus there is evidence that the index will begin more quickly, with inevitable consequences for the rise in domestic debt. The middle class has spoken for freezing the index. I thought it would be normal for the government to do at least that. arrangements for such projects that are truly needed for some preparation. Not to be repeated, Mr. President, who took place here after the collapse of the bank, is the most devastating blow in the homes of the people. It can't happen again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u5	Mr. President. At times, we also need to tap a little bit of weight when we are faced with a difficult situation, as we have now seen more of this year. One of the things that's been following the Covid epidemic here and its meeting feeling is that driving has rapidly diminished all over the country. When a meeting ban was cleared, the traffic increased as a result. We'll see it from day to day. At the same time, the good news is that bicycles are almost on fire in the country. Not only in this country but also in many foreign lands, the sale of bicycles has exploded. Perhaps more important is the fact that physical and mental health at the same time as exercise stations and swimming pools are closed for health reasons, amazing but true. Health Ministers and environmental ministers, along with others, began the campaign for work this morning. This is the 18th as it takes effort, and the General is participating in it as in the past few years. I encourage senators and all who are here to take advantage of this opportunity and to participate. In the big capital area, I want to say in the context of the need to consider hierarchical hierarchies around urban areas and, in fact, other places too, part of a changed life pattern and part of creating a climate - friendly society. Everyone can take part, for, of course, the rules for Work depend on the conditions we now live in, and despite the vow, people who don't have bicycles are encouraged to go to work if they can. My fellow workers and people of the country. We've enjoyed remarkable things in Iceland. We have not been left out since making good use of our beautiful environment. Now that we sense the smell of spring and weather a little moody, we do well to use the effort to raise our bodies and souls, especially since many Icelanders are returning to work after weeks of telecommunication and a session on the computer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u6	A respectable president. Reasonableness, justice, and the prohibition of all forms of discrimination are the basis of democracy. Now the time has come for tickets resulting from the use of nail pads outside the approved time is 20,000 K. On deck. Legally, drivers who use nail sheets after April 15 should pay 80,000 dollars. A fine if all four of the tires are nailed. 80,000 k. $200,000. payable is 40%. Of 400,000. this is 20%. Of 800,000. The rate of pay is 10%. Is that fair? No. If you've got 800,000 bucks. The pay will also pay 40% of its pay in fines, for having four nail pads under a car, he should pay at that rate of 220,000. Would he accept that? I don't think so. Shouldn't we be reasonable and just and pick up the Finnish route, taking out a percentage of fines, not a dollar? Let us fine in a percentage of the pay paid. This is fair because it is nothing more than a price to the State. Unfortunately, we don't just have it on fines, we're gonna put it and we're gonna cover it, we've got it on real estate expenses, we've got some other fees. I think it's time for us to have some respect for justice and democracy to change this, so it's fair for everyone to pay evenly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u7	A respectable president. Today, gray - free fishing has been stopped just six weeks after it began. In the beginning, a hunting adviser recorded 4,600 tons, which has reached an end of fishing in the north and east of the country. Seakeepers are saying that there are some more of the gray patch than there is thought to be, calling for a re-evaluation of counselling. They give some evidence that the criteria for counseling are faulty. I'm not going to pass sentence on it here, but these weeks' hunting numbers give us every reason to stop and reevaluate the situation. In many parts of the world, altruism has been practiced in many parts of the country, and it is evident that this fishing has become a major factor in the development of many places and is more comfortable in the less populated areas, such as the Coastal plain, and in the Valley of Burdens River, to name some area. This fishing work was not now at the inside of the British farm, and in Stykkisolmi was waiting for about 20 structures to be opened in the area. It should now be opened on May 20 and allowed to hunt for up to 15 days. In Stykkisholm, for example, there are about 120 people who get a job during the gray-free period, with about one fifth of the total resources in the country in the past few years. A gray pass code system is not the answer where cosmeals are missing into the greeting system. In the case of the Covid situation, it is a shock to many small families, many of whom remain alive in their habitats. This decision should have been made, met with counter measures, or reassessed. It is minimal that these 15 days of Brefuding will be guaranteed. Small boats will have to move to coastal fishing sooner, where the total resources have been reduced by about 1,000 tons, and the assault on that system has fallen on the decision to block a gray escape. A respectable president. Illegal times call for other viewpoints and new approaches.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u8	A respectable president. The conditions we live in today's climate due to the Covid-19 epidemic have made a economic impression that much of the community is being interrupted. It is not that this has become an enormous financial failure that has caused the economic crisis that is now facing. This is not because the manufacturing tools have been destroyed. It's just because our economy is on break. Our economy, however, assumes that the game is going on, so to speak. We also have to take a break to make sure that we can protect public property from predicted setbacks that are not his own fault. A home or an apartment house is for most people, I would think, if not most, Iceland's biggest investment they ever make in their lives. They may well consider how to borrow and how they intend to do so. The epidemic we now experience makes for the immediate future a smile, not as a result of inflation, not as a result of a disaster, not as a result of growth failure - although all of these are potential opportunities for the immediate future - but as a result of loss of income because people have lost their income to cover their expenses. For this reason, several members of the council have suggested, accepting support from any direction, that forced sales on the property of people, their housing, will be postponed beyond June 1, 2021. This is the nature of the case in a relatively drastic procedure, but if these are not the circumstances to take such action, I do not know when it would be. In particular, I feel justified now and important because of the nature of the problem that is not that borrowers have somehow miscalculated the situation or in some way made unwise decisions. They can't be blamed. These are natural disasters that we must deal with in an appropriate way. Let us pause when it comes to forced halls so that the people of the country can live up to their commitments as they please.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u9	President. I'd like to talk to you about edgy things. Last week, the president said a talk about what he said. paritaprevir In a discussion about the activities of the council, Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, was allowed by the president: ▪ When any presidents on the throne see why they make comments about the use of words, language, or direct recommendation to members of Congress to be moderate in word selection, these comments are final. They will not be appealed, and they will not be discussed. Now it may well be that the words referred to have been out of proportion. The problem is that we have no idea what words it was and whether the context was relevant or not. The president does not want his comments to be discussed. The president simply wants to be ashamed of members of the council without having to explain how he feels about the use of senators who, in all likelihood, have a vastly broad expression of freedom from the Council of II. This isn't the first time, and I'm sure it won't be the last time the President makes such remarks. Because the president's comments aren't under discussion, Congress and nation never learn why the president is always making such an issue with members of Congress. What makes this problem even more serious is the fact that the president is making his way into the corner. The president makes the comments he makes. He doesn't have to explain them, and he says they're final. In other words, he believes that it is impossible for him to be wrong. As a result, it always happens over and over, winding up and getting worse. An example of this is the president's decisions that the truth is not relevant in protocols, the President's decision on the program here during the week, where a meeting was quickly terminated when legitimate questions arose about the Senate hearing for the meeting because of a ban, and the decision of the arrangements for requests on the costs of legal projects were raised. All of this because the president cannot accept when he is wrong and does not even want to discuss it when there is a possibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u10	The president prefers to answer this only by reading the 1st paragraph 73. g. Congress. It says: It is necessary for a senator to submit fully to the authority of a president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u11	V.E.G. President. Transport is the foundation of the economic system. Good transport lays the groundwork for the competitiveness of the nation and the quality of life in the country. When a transport program is submitted, long and extensive processes have taken place. Things don't fall out of the air, as someone seemed to think of during last night's conference. This guide involves consultation and conversation so that you can priorise and work professionally on the contribution of the programme. The range is wide, taking over funds and expenses for all transports, i.e. Air traffic, road and navigation, including public transportation, ports, marine defences, security, environment and transport. In fact, the metal party involves all aspects of society and thus all the inhabitants of the country. That is why conversation and consultation are important. Yet, it is absolutely clear that not all of us get their most generous wishes fulfilled. Despite large increases in contributions over the past few years for construction, maintenance of roads, and rejection, there is still a long way to go. It's a bill. It's a TV. A transport and rural government minister who was being discussed here yesterday and facing a route called a cooperative strategy, opens the way for us to speed up the project and reassign further into the implementation. It is a healing for all of us, but it is clear that internal investors will become a key component of government operations to stem the economic impact of the pandemic. So it is deadly for us now to promote employment, expand jobs, and strengthen the internal resources of the domestic economy, but the greatest benefit will always be for the user, not just that he can choose it, but that will increase the safety of all of us. That is what we should have at the tip of the road when talking about our transportation and transportation system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u12	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Ottar's son Proppér, for calling attention to the special status of the Central Party when it comes to the issues discussed here yesterday, and I agree to his appeal to the people of the country to study the contents of that discussion. I thank him very much for this. However, I was going to discuss something else today, Mr. President, I was going to discuss one class of men that seems to be a little worse off the situation of Covid-19 than most of them, and there are cab drivers. Apparently, cab drivers are almost harassed by the administrative department these days. They do not receive partial benefits, they are granted permission to apply for unemployment benefits against returning their work permit. The employment permit will thus be sold to others. In the same situation now, it has been announced by the Association Service that a new license will be issued in this condition when the current class of approximately Fifty-five-10% of entrance to normal. At the top of the purchase, cab drivers don't get an exception from the 20-yard rule, such as. The bus gets it. Now I'm going to draw attention to the fact that very many cabs are so equipped and of the size that they have already been renovated, so the rule is honored. I find that this is the way of a single class, and I challenge the authorities, the labour oces, the transportation authorities, and the transport ministers to make things right here in the first place.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u13	Mr. President. I'm going to enter a language that was discussed at a conference yesterday, but not an unprecedented speech. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, the Proppér of Charmin, and his speech, waits for better time. What I wanted to discuss and enter is the prime minister of justice for a change in the law of foreigners. In this regard, in particular, I would like to mention that in the state police director's report on an organized crime activity published by the right year, the Icelandic takeover system has been systematically abused in order to practice black business or crime like mansale and abuse. People have been enslaved to the darkness between bad terms. It is highly suspected that by the recent years in this country, man louse for tourism and construction services has grown rapidly. The report says that those seeking international protection in Iceland, because of poor social positions, may be abused and even oppressed by various forms of prostitution, women being forced into prostitution, and the planning of a working room in the black economy so-called, e.g. in various services. The report also says that the lack of monitoring in this area is directly expected to increase the scope of work; and the loss of labour markets to move abroad. Then, as shown in the report on opening in the fall of 2018, candidates for the international protection of black jobs in the country and in some cases, sufferers of serious abuse. I asked the highest. The Minister of Justice in last night's debate whether to take into account the serious comments and statements presented in the state police report on the bill and whether this abuse is being taken into account in the bill. The reply of the Minister of Justice is of great concern. This led to great disappointment. [[The president calls.]] This report is not taken into account in this work. It is essential that the committee make good use of the serious comments made by the U.S. Marshal's report on the misuse of the security system in this country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u14	A respectable president. The biggest question now must be professional. The job creation will depend on how fast and well we are going to get us out of this serious economic crisis. What, then, is the role of the State in the commercial creation? In the private market, the key role must be to help, as well as to keep out of the way. A reduction in the insurance bill is probably the biggest and most important step the government can take now to stimulate employment. The reductions in insurance costs increase jobs as well as the apparent effects of reducing the number of people who need to rely on unemployment benefits and reduce the pressures on employment insurance. It is important that we understand and read what unemployment can cost us as a community, especially if it becomes widespread, and if it lasts long. Most manifestations of chronic unemployment are serious. What is the role of the government on the public market? Now it's time to make the most of it. There may be a rapid increase in the number of timely assignments and projects. At the same time, people with a lack of staff can be hired. To stimulate the economy, to promote commercial creation, and to promote valuable creation, we also need to increase the value of investible investments. The need for investment, of course, is hundreds of billions of dollars. We are also expected to increase investments in innovation companies. This will create work and increase the nation's export to the future. The role of the State is to promote and provide positive stimulating environments that support work structure. This has rarely been more important. We need to understand that taking smaller steps can now cost us. This may cost us dearly. The real application opportunities in the economy will be the answer to how the nation's quality of life will become and whether we will become competitive for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u15	President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The year's Birgir Ármannsson for taking good care of my request for a word change now. His motive is in the Morning Press this morning. I can agree with much of what it says, as it is always. A senator says he's quiet, a lot, but not everything. We are now facing tremendous challenges in the middle of the Covid flag. The government's task is to do in a subtle way two different kinds, to reduce the damage caused by the economic contractions, the collapses, people, and businesses, and to provide for the future by building and rebuilding, as the senator rightly identifies them. The international leaders and business leaders around the world will be frequented during these days to expect a change in world order when things return to a fixed standard. Indeed, how we will fare as a nation in the long run in that reality depends on how we deal with our present situation and much more on how we adjust to our new reality. In this light, last words were used in an article earlier. A senator in contrast, in my opinion, with another fine writing, that in view of the present position politicians are not to discuss administrative changes, not the European Union, and not other radical social revolutions. If, in these critical times, we may be saying goodbye to a world of some kind and looking forward to a changed world, isn't it time to satisfy the nation's wishes for certain changes in our constitution that depend on an equation of voting rights and temporary resource rules, then what time is that? If our position in Europe, the benefits and failings of a European Union including, is not an important entry in our mapping of the situation and challenges in the light of the changed world, when? In view of this article, I ask if it is food. A senator says it's never that time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u16	V.E.G. President. I would like to answer this, so when we are dealing with an urgent emergency, it is most important to try to cope with that problem. What burns on us now has nothing to do with the constitution. For example, what burns against us now has nothing to do with the European Union, not anything. Therefore, I believe that a debate over the political issues that we know will arise if people try to run their utmost policy in those areas will cause them to draw energy, time, and attention to politicians from the issues that are truly important. That's my attitude in these matters. I think that when we're trying to rebuild our economy, we should think about how we can do it best, how we can get our wheels back started, how we can get people to work that has been for tens of thousands of years lost jobs in the past few weeks. It's urgent. There is no need for Constitution or involvement in the European Union. I think that experience from 2009-2013 should teach us that we should not waste our energy on the sort of conflict when we can be working on real improvements, real progress that will bring economic benefits to society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u17	Mr. President. It's about the real stuff. At the same time that we at the government stand, we've been calling for consultation and watching the government's press conference on what is to be done. Prime Ministers of the Council to consult exactly the changes to the constitution. Here was a member of the Independence Party, one of the three national towers, speaking down to the prime minister's message of needed changes to the Constitution and the work being done there. It is a very special thing to be out of the way and to monitor the management classes and how to manage matters. I'm always happy if we can get any steps forward regarding the change in the constitution. The position of the proconsul of the Independence Party to change the constitution is clear to all of us, for it has not been hidden at all but, rather, clearly, fought against the change in the constitution since his entry into Congress. Mr. President. I think we could agree on one thing, that the more tolerated work that has continued during this terms will not be thrown into the ocean under the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, but we owe it to the people to make this work crystallize to agree to change even if it is only the Constitution's policy so that the people themselves, the constitutionr, can come to the table, have the last word as it holds its right. As a result, we stopped the council leader of the Independence Party and other people getting involved in these necessary changes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u18	Mr. President. At noon last night, the fields returned to strike in four rural communities, Kópavogi, Mosfellsville, Seltananesi, and Alfusi. This is a serious matter. It's under a service that's extremely important to the inhabitants. We have staff who have a very intense and urgent need to complete their contracts. This is where any community must step in and finish these negotiations with its negotiaters. It cannot be overlooked because it is under the interest of users of elementary school and using high school and all kinds of services, but most important is that of low-payers, people who are in, let's say, in most cases, one of the lowest paid jobs in rural society, and the rural communities have to face them in the negotiations. Of course, the same is true of Ephling, and she also has to face the communities. But the basic theme of this is, as if I see it, Mr. President, that rural society and Agent Eling cannot allow this negotiation to become some sort of a fight between parties. Others must step in, to form a Kingdom club, and to complete this contract so that all the stakeholders are wasted.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u19	V.E.G. President. I'm not very much at odds with the conference board. President, but I would like a word of why. paritaprevir Helgadóttir Vóg Vóg Helgavóðvógi það -I knew that she was somehow going to step in my speech and make no comments about it -- but I just wanted to say that my article is not to be understood as if I make comments that the prime minister offers a meeting to continue the work that has been going on all this terms and that I understand a fair agreement so much so much. I make a great difference between continuing that work and thinking, as you are concerned, that some may see the opportunity to make use of the situation as it is today, a certain solution to a situation caused by the economic events, to prevent changes that actually have nothing to do with this economic situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u20	Mr. President. I come up here only for a word. Councilman and member of the Independence Party, Ármannsson's son, because he did not admit in his report he had been critical of the highest order. Prime Minister for proclaiming a constitution meeting Then I think I must refer to what I saw in this article. A senator who speaks of all the emphasis on political leadership in the country must be in response to the economic crisis, that the time, energy, and attention of politicians must be focused on such things, and they must accept to put aside other interests. That's because of what I read, so that's why. A senator would have a problem with the highest. The prime minister would be looking at something that he is terribly interested in, such as the Constitution of the Republic of Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u21	Mr. President. There is no more obvious matter to be found. The Environment and Transport Committee, but this, a case designed to lay the lines on all main transportation issues in the capital sector until the next 15 years. If this matter goes on to a financial committee, what kind of transportation or a matter involving a head's spending should be at home other than a financial committee? Then there is reason to mention the obvious connection of this matter with the case that was discussed here yesterday before the case that we are discussing in terms of road recording in other parts of the country that goes on to a environmental and transport committee. Is it not reasonable to discuss these matters? I think it's obvious. It is strange if the lines on transport in the capital area for the next 15 years are not to be addressed. Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u22	Mr. President. I'm here just to recognize my position that this matter, like other environmental and transport issues at the council, should take place in the treatment of the environment and transportation committee. I'll put red on this financial minister's motion and encourage people to do it so that the case is handled. I don't really understand the situation, so I agree. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð. Where does this end, and what matters do not apply to a financial committee if the evidence is that they are funded?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u23	A respectable president. I intend to vote with the suggestion that this bill will be discussed in a budget board where public societies are discussed and proposed. I thought it was some kind of central effort to make a political value to bring this matter into the environment and transport committee, since the issues related to transport in the capital area have been discussed in the environment and transport committee and will be discussed in this committee. This is merely to establish this union, which is an essential part of the capital contract that I support with one accord.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u24	A respectable president. I support the proposal that the case of the establishment of public society will be discussed on the budget board, which is the role of this committee to discuss such matters. The Environment and Transport Committee has the national Convention to treat the transport programme currently being conducted by the Committee, has spent time discussing it, and will make it more likely to do so so so that the bill will have a full view of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u25	Mr. President. I agree with the words of the Speaker of the House of Parliament who spoke here. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín's Friðriksson, that there are similar issues at the table. The Environment and Transport Committee, not the financing committee, and that this matter should be addressed in the context of the collection of road charges and the establishment of a part-partner. So we don't feel that such a specific matter is going to happen. It's a legal committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u26	Mr. President. In this bill of nationalisation and decision of nationalities, nationalisation and delinquency, it is assumed that people, especially the state, will be given increased authority to adopt older cases where they have been asked or the state has not had enough money and that there may be some landless people or at least They have not been judged sufficiently. The bill also contains sources to the Wild Committee to treat the general population of lakes and areas outside the coastal coast of the continent. There, people meet landowners who believe that their rights are surmounted and think that the State is going to stand in conflict over the understanding of the ownership of these areas, how broad it is, for example. in Internet law, and where the Network is usually. The plan here is to place everything in a fire and a bar against those whose land is in the sea and lakes, with a well - afforded expense. The middle party says no in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u27	Mr. President. I reiterate that the objective of the bill here is that it will not remain in the country where there is a qualification of property rights. This matter has been taken in very careful consideration. The General and Education Committee and I thank the Committee for its discussion on the subject that may be said to have been discussed in detail in each article, based on the national law, which, of course, has been for a long time in society. I am convinced that this goal will be achieved with the approval of this bill and that it has been well done in preparation and on the part of the council. I say yes to the bill, and I think it's a significant improvement in a delicate case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u28	Mr. President. In the leading part of the 1980's, the boundaries of a so - called no - man country in the highlands were considered reasonable, as in some cases, as well as the limits of property. Sadly, the State's demanding property has been in total opposition to the original purpose of this traffic that began 22 years ago. The treatment for many cases is completely unacceptable. I think the interests of landowners are higher and better if this bill is not legal. Mr. President. It's time to end up in the Wild Committee. It's supposed to be laid down. Nationalities are now out of place, as are the costs for taxpayers. We're saying no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u29	A respectable president. It's very nice. It rhymes with the doctrine of Pirata, where we suggested that 208 empty laws be removed. We were working to reimburse that case in the form of a synonym to the various ministers to get it done. Here, financial and economic ministers take their share of these and some others. It's very nice, and I'm saying yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u30	Mr. President. In many ways, it is quite fine. However, we would like it to go - I'm not quite sure if it would go back to the committee, but we would suggest that one or two more things might be considered. So we won't vote in this safe.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u31	Mr. President. My purpose here as the executive of this case was exactly, and I have discussed it with the chairman of the Committee, to request the matter to come into the committee between discussions and that at that meeting the representatives of Amnesty International and the Ministry to review the comments Amnesty sent us today, and I believe that there would be a reason to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u32	Mr. President. I'm glad that this case has come to this place, the matter of the defense of the informants, a huge case that leads to freedom of information, transparency, and expression, and will become more transparent in Icelandic living. I've come to understand that there will be a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. to respond to a rumor that did not arrive until today as I understand. I hope that once that discussion is completed, it will be possible to complete this case and make it a law from the Council. As I'm saying, this huge step is based on good proposals by a committee of expression, media and information freedoms that I believe all were improved and to improve the job life in Iceland healthy, administration healthy, and society all due to increased transparency. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u33	A respectable president. I'm glad this case has come a long way. I just wanted to get a report from Amnesty International, but not until now, because they didn't send a review request to Amnesty International. This is a mistake on our part, and it is a mistake for them to apologize. It's only very positive that the speaker of the case asked for a committee to review Amnesty's comments. I have done a few things, and I agree that it is very important to consider them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-98.u34	A respectable president. I'm happy for this matter, and I'm very supportive, but I agree with it. The last speaker, Thorhldur Ævarsdóttir Ahvarsdóttir, is that it is of utmost importance for the committee to look at and take a position on a story from Amnesty International that I believe will shed light on the case that the committee needs to consider carefully.
