ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u1	Borist has received a letter from a health minister asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a covering query. 883, the cost of nursing and emergency room, from Anna Colb Kolbrún The Year's Árnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u2	To answer, financial and economic ministers, education and cultural ministers, and tourism, industrial and innovation ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u3	A respectable president. I guess I've been like many others, and I'm really thinking about seeing someone who's sick last night. A person has come to realize, and nothing has been secret, that we have not just all manner of release clearances and so forth but are just selling these proofs of origin. I did not realize, however, that the size of the show was and how it looks in the international community that we are, in fact, keeping the cake for ourselves, claiming to be incredibly green, but then being sold from us and replaced by fossil fuels and nuclear power. I simply want to ask the highest. A minister, if any of these had surprised her or if she was completely aware of the situation. 900 million. K. were taken into the sale of these literature for land reactivation during the previous year. And if it isn't, I'm gonna ask if the Minister is cool with it the way it is, if she and her Ministry are looking at it again and planning to respond. We've been advertising our unique status of being green, but it's not enough to say that the fact is that we're green when papers say everything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u4	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. To answer first if there was any surprise in this discussion, I can't say it was. Of course, we've talked about our origins, and they're very controversial. I feel that the public may not be overly fond of this arrangement. This is an arrangement that has been here since 2008 and is part of a regular European project that we set up here and other countries also, other countries that produce green energy also do. If we were to go a long way to ban the film, if it were possible, companies selling responsibilities, well, other producers of green energy in other countries that can do it, and our producers couldn't. It is sometimes claimed that this system is not relevant because we are isolated. However, the fact that electricity will not be transferred between Iceland and other countries does not alter the sale of responsibilities from here certainly serve the main objective of this system, which, in principle, is to produce renewable energy more than it would otherwise be. All the public companies get these responsibilities inside the market, are not buying them separately. But that is not the case with the industry. I decided that the sale of responsibilities in Spain was an issue of barriers. But the obstacles apply exclusively to Kingdom - grant fortresses, so in the green activations built there, there has been an increase in sales of these primary responsibilities. Of course, there are other countries, as I say, that have green production of electricity, and that doesn't change the greenness of our electricity. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Exquisite responsibilities do not change that position.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u5	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, but I had rather thought of looking at us a little closer and talking about Iceland, even though we are in contact in the great world and in the international community. But then I was first and last to take care of us here. We'd like to say that we're so big and nobody's like us and I'm just gonna say that it's like that, at least if it's possible - I'll just point it out and ask the highest. Minister if she knows any other country that can say what we can say: We have 100% green energy here. We're 100% pure, and we produce 100% green energy. I know the highest. A minister for some other country that it could pull to our side and say it was comparable? And how do we care about how other countries use their energy? I thought we were completely independent of our energy here and how we'd handle our business. We wouldn't have to be doing anything like everybody else, because I think we're special about this, and this might rather bite us in the trunk than the other.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u6	Mr. President. Of course, there are other countries that are headed for what we have here, i.e. to have the green production of electrical energy. The objective of this system of responsibilities is, in effect, to speed up the process of making it more attractive to produce more than the others, so that these companies have decided for competitive purposes. It is the purpose of the system that I certainly didn't create and was built here long ago. Land activation is the person who sells far more than any of this, and it is the largest electronic product in the country. What could be considered is whether the owner's policy in this enterprise can be expressed on whether and to what extent the source should be sold, as I say, is mandatory for this system to exist. The duty is not to publish it. There's something that's been discussed a few times, and this discussion is there now, and I'm very open to participate in such a discussion and continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u7	Mr. President. Despite a great decrease in staff and altered financial environment, the Lands Bank is on a major project at Hafnar Square, building new bases for billions of dollars on the nation's most expensive property. The process has just begun, and with 1.8 billion in progress, it is already 12 billion, and the amount will probably increase even further. The building is to be paid over 24 years and will probably not go to a bank anymore, everything will be done at home. I have previously criticized this mindless and unnecessary execution of a bank, and I have already discussed this at the highest level. Minister under this team. The minister then tried to make his own legal problem and to take responsibility. Eleven months ago, I proposed a written inquiry to the highest level of the case. Minister and this week we finally got an answer. A minister, in turn, points to the government and still tries to get out of responsibility, claims that he has nothing to do with it, even though he is in control of the stock and is the owner of the company. In answer to a minister, we learn that this big enterprise of 12 billion of public money was not subject to the stockholder's meeting. The government's banking agencies take part in the bank, and under law, the minister can direct comments on certain matters, as he did when the bank manager's salary was lowered. All the bank's top meetings were held by the bank and were well aware of the planned big house. V.E.G. Thus, there was no need for a minister to direct them to the county of Banks to let the bank's government fall from the building. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Why was the matter never approved by the owner of the bank, and why was it not a meeting of stockholders as to the government's policy for finance?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u8	A respectable president. There were so many missteps in this talk that I could not keep count of all of them. First of all, I don't carry stock. It's under law, so the stock is in the Bank Office, which takes over the stock and has an arrangement for controlling governments. The National Bank Board is independent, its application is not to the Bank Office but to the main meeting, not to take orders from the Bank Office, but to operate independently as the administration of this company on the basis of laws and regulations established by the bank itself. Second, I don't know if it's right. A senator said that the bank had to go to a big meeting for approval. The second, however, is that it may be that a minister of finance may be able to offer a number of recommendations to the Bank Office on the other and to the other things, e.g. At the time, we did so, as it was driven, that we emphasized it to every government company, not just financial firm, bank administration, such as any other government enterprise, that men were careful to work as directors of pay and take into account the policies established by a collective agreement. This is where it wants to be. A senator repeatedly makes up the bank's business decision, but I am simply not the man who made that decision. I don't think the council wants me to make such a decision either. Then we can discuss whether this was a good provision at the bank or not. I have my doubts about the need to build bases in this place. But I don't take it from the bank's managers that they have shown that they will save a lot of money in business, and the rest is that they will own the house. [[The president calls.]] They will own the house, and it will go down into the bank account that can sell it in the future after incidents if it is not used for the purpose of the bank. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u9	Mr. President. The client's commission problem continues. I'm the highest. Minister to read the law on the Bank County. The main meetings of the Bank of 2017, 2018, and 2018 will feature new headquarters. At these meetings, a representative of the minister and bank office was sitting, never making any comments to this unscrupulous enterprise. It's a complete inactivity on the part of the state. The opportunity for the owner to express himself on this bank manager's pet project was enough. The bank business involved interest payments at Arion Bank and threatened legal requests, but it sees no basis for memorizing with the cost of the Lands Bank to 12 billion at headquarters. The bank agreed that his headquarters is on East Street. This can only be changed to shareholders meeting. The bank's board of directors believes that they have authority to build new headquarters without the approval of shareholders. The government has thus broken the bank's approval. V.E.G. Minister: Is the bank's administration unsupervised? [[The president calls.]] As a guardian of state funds, we have the highest. Minister will fail in this matter. It would be nearly that these 12 billion are becoming a health - care organization.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u10	A respectable president. These last comments are an example of the folly sometimes heard at the council that what was supposed to be in investment should take on a business that is said each year indefinitely. A total of 12 billion each year are anything but 12 billion investments. But, hey. A senator does not want to cancel the fact that there is a special legal organisation that operates in accordance with the stock and that these contacts with the companies that are under the Agency. I submitted a bill at the council that we would end the life span of this institution as originally assumed, i.e. The law requested that the Agency live five years. At that time, it was a very bad arrangement, especially with the evidence that they were moving the cause of this institution closer to the Ministry. That's what the council was so against. But then they want to continue to hold the minister responsible for all that happens in this independent institution, which then has the entrance to the order of an independent government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u11	Mr. President. Perhaps before long, both Albania and Paraguay have 100% renewable electricity. But I'm coming up here to talk to the highest. Tourist for the serious situation of the tourism service. I have previously expressed concern for the lack of response from the government and the Supreme Court. Minister for the shocks this article has experienced in the past few months. First, there is a decrease in the number of tourists to Iceland due to the collapse of WOW, the hard situation of Icelanda because of the Max Machine, the strong position of the crown, and the second, we are seeing the worst time reports due to the Covid-19 virus. Thus, in January, the number of tourists in travel fell by 13%, but the virus's impact is not being maintained. All of this has made it difficult for tourism companies to be positive, although the number of tourists has greater value for each tourist. Even more disturbing, however, is the fact that, as shown in the Commission's conduct with the tourism agency and VOLV yesterday, there has been considerable financial pressure within the tourism service, which, of course, has a major impact on the company's environment. In particular, this has a bad effect on SMEs who find it hard to get involved in payment, and they also have no opportunities to build up. Shares at the highest. A minister worries me about the position of this article? Very much. Will a minister take advantage of the cowen bank to step in and respond to the situation that has come up with the funding of this article? Mr. President. I simply ask, "Where are counter measures involved in the elimination of WOW? " Without minimizing a position that has come up as a result of a hairy failure, which is certainly very serious, is an enormous effort to cope with the disappearance of the silver from the sea, but what about other export costs, such as the arrival of tourists? Where are the research ships looking for them? Visitors are a failure, but the government's approach is quite different in their speech and actions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator of this inquiry. The question is whether I am concerned about the position of this article, and certainly I am concerned about the position of the article when it comes to a valuable creation inside it, its state in the economic environment we are in right now. The recession we're looking at will bite the travel service at least not less or more than other articles. Of course, travel is an overemphasis for human living. The trends that have taken place here in Iceland over the last few years cannot be overlooked when pay rates and pay rates for tourism are very high. The Ministry is designed to form a contract with the National Institute of Iceland, the role of an Iceland Office to market Iceland as a tourist country. The deal is strong, and I know that Iceland Lab has gone to policy. Of course, this is one of the main points for tourism. We've expanded the markets all over the country and have additional work to do in terms of the support of tourism through the country. We've gone to major policies where we have the article, where we walk in rhythm, and we agree on where we're headed. Practicality is taking place in this article. Businesses are going to go down, they're going down. It is part of our markets and the traumas we have suffered as a result of this trend. And when asked if I will use myself when it comes to the Secret Bank, the Secret Bank is an overly independent ruler, and I assume that these factors are also identified. But I just want you to know that we've both been raising funding for research, in the tourism fund, are about to report the distributions there very soon, and have taken care of your homework. Later, my answer became useful when I talked about how much I have faith in this article and in its prospects.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u13	President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. The reality is that tourism is no longer some small business. Rather, it is an article that represented 11% of GDP in 2018. That same year, nearly 29,000 people worked on the article. As a result of the recession, tourism companies are increasingly closing over the winter period and the decline in enterprises is becoming apparent due to bankruptcy and integration. Despite the beautiful words of promoting increased winter tourism, the state has failed, but winter service at many popular tourist attractions has been limited, and access to whole areas has even been limited. It was interesting to read this morning to the highest level of interview. The Minister of Education on her belief that the government must take action to prevent further compromise in the economy. I'd like to ask the highest. Industrial, innovation and travel secretary whether it agrees with the highest level. Secretary of education. Would it not now be important to go on a real increase in support of the development and maintenance and services of infrastructure that benefit all the inhabitants of the country, especially the capital area?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u14	Mr. President. Despite the numbers of tourists, I want them to stay and spend more money. That, in spite of all things, is in line with what we all plan to do, i.e. that every tourist leaves more behind, the goal is not to increase it, or to increase it, and so many people think that wealth and profit are enough. With respect to the distribution of tourists, it is quite correct, it is a ongoing project, and we have not finished everything that needs to be done. When it comes to a tens of millions of injections in the country, I think no one is standing here and saying that they don't think it's a good idea. But it just needs to be viewed in the context of the parts; how it affects a trust fund, what financial means are now, what to do in this situation. It's been called after a few years of investors. It was not proper to make major investments when the environment was such. Now there's another time upstairs. But it also needs to be looked at in what the money has gone into. We have made decisions to place tens of billions in the system that has been called upon to be trusted; health systems, welfare systems, birthworm, unemployment improvements, etc. [[The president calls.]] The situation is simply so that the same dollar cannot be removed twice. Now, however, there are times in which we call for investments, and we need to look for ways to do so, and we can also look at the property of the Kingdom and what possessions we can sell to make use of it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs two questions. The first is leading, and no doubt may be classed as a classic roadside bitch, but the subject becomes louder and louder as the process passes. The second question is a practitional, essential part of the council's surveillance role, and it is of great importance. When Law No. 116/2016 was also assigned to the current financial minister. This was a change in social security law, but unfortunately, a mistake was made, this classic mistake that always happens at the council's end when they try to push matters through the council without having enough time to think about it. This mistake cost the taxpayers 4.8 billion, and the correction made cost between 800,5500 million, if calculated, the numbers found in the wicks went out. Tuesday. In view of this, about 6.1 billion and, plus failures to build up, the National Court case, and other matters, are my first question to Minister: Why do the independents treat public funds so badly? The second question is essential, since the cost of failing the correction in this case may be 1,500 million if the State has to pay all 32,000 who suffered a fall because of the failure to correct the toll that was paid to a painter in the court that had to be appealed to the person's rights. The second question, then, is whether a financial decision for reimbursement of illegal delinquency was made by the Ministry of finance or by the secretary of finance. Was there only 800 million in interest, but not 700 million in added to the labor interest rate as a court order on the financial bail?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u16	A respectable president. I'm completely from understanding what's going on. A senator mentioned here would like to apply to the secretary of finance responsibility for a bill that he did not submit, and he was eventually agreed to agree at the General Assembly. He goes on to say: Here's an example of the Independence Party being used by the public. I must say, most respectable President, I've become totally offended, that this is it. A senator who puts his socks up in a speaker's chair, in either sock repeatedly with a political shit really, nothing else, has anything else to say here in a Senate hall, should be expected to take such a serious inquiry. I just can't do it. In terms of calculating, the conclusion that a certain amount of money is due the state is trying to keep the level of reasonableness, doing the law. There may be an opinion of a variety of factors involved in terms of growth rate, growth date, torso growth rate, etc. And yes, there are times when there is a disagreement, and that's when it's resolved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u17	A respectable president. Some time ago, there was an argument between the Department of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Financial Affairs over reimbursement of agricultural restrictions that it could not be reimbursed because it could not be obtained from a financial minister. This was a certain argument that was going on that could set in one way or another, etc. So it is only natural that, in this case, we ask again: Is this a financial problem, or is the responsibility really at the Ministry of Health? Who made the decision? There's talk of extreme reasonableness here. Here's a bill that pays 10% interest while 31999 others don't get 10%, but 5.5%. Who is reasonable in it? It's become a little interesting, too, how financial and economic ministers come up repeatedly and say they don't understand anything. I think that's the point of the problem after all.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u18	A respectable president. This is simply a matter of questioning, which is discussed at the council and at the council committees, and we have responded to it in the past. I have said in this chair for the same reason that when people have a state demand, it will collect and there will be no legal rights to pay legitimate demands on the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u19	Mr. President. During recent years, storm clouds have exploded into the economy, perhaps least in the last few months. That is to prove what the government was repeatedly warned about, i.e. overexploitation has been done on the basis of unrealistic economic reserves. The government has so far broken the alarm, but it seems to be changing. V.E.G. A minister of education suggested extensive economic operations for an interview in the Morning newspaper this morning, including the U.S.A. about significant injections in induction investments and special reductions in the amount of insurance paid at the highest level. A minister said that he would have to find his support for the governments and, most likely, support for governmental groups as well. As a matter of fact, I'll say it right here and now I think these ideas are considered interesting. In the past, I have mentioned that this is the time when we should go to critical investments, engage in big business, and even change the laws on public finances to deal with it. But I would be interested to hear it from the highest. Financial and economic secretary if these ideas have the support of the government, whether or not they are involved on the board of the government, in creating a new financial program. And the most interesting thing to hear is how the government intends to finance such investments, whether it will be by borrowing or selling property.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u20	A respectable president. We've discussed this before at the council Hall. I believe now is the ideal situation to add to the public investment. Investment is the very thing I've been referring specifically to, e.g. in connection with sales at Iceland Bank, there may be support for the state's funds in taking part in investment initiatives and making changes in their balance accounts. It does not have to become a reality this year, but it does in the next few years. The key is to start, to decide to change the property when the right circumstances arise. In this way we expand our land's infrastructure without taking it all as a loan while possessions are present. I think the key point in this subject is in two parts. On the one hand, we cannot see that in the next few years, government funds will otherwise be thrown into the background. We need to see the revenues and remunerations meet with the disintegrating of fully-finished investments. There is reason to be concerned because the current government's income is yielding. That's right. In recent years, the increase in expenses has been high, and we do not live under the basic interest rate in the coming years to become unchanged employers. So we need a plan that is credible in this regard, so we, in addition to our investment initiative, are not dropping our state funds into tens if not hundreds of billions of business halls. This is the one. The second is to choose the projects diligently so that we invest in what really makes money for society. Many of the things I have heard about during the discussion will result in extremely little long - term gain for society, even if this adds up some temporary activity and more people will be hired for work. There I think we have a lot of work to do, a little deeper the discussion of lucrative investments, on the other hand, about all kinds of investments that do nothing but temporarily increase jobs in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u21	Mr. President. I think we're at the highest. Ministers would agree that it is of utmost importance in depositing investments that they are long - termly profitable. In fact, I missed it a little in the lists of the highest. Education minister that she did not think of her coworker and chairman of the roads. I believe that in recent years, we have built economic growth on the rise in tourism but, in large measure, we are starving in the road. I think it's very important to engage in projects like speed up the double-flash of Smokenes and ensure safety on the Southland Road. We're seeing too much accident on Southland roads with massive tourist currents. I think now is exactly the right time to depend on a decision and speed in such investments, but I'm afraid it'll be reduced if it's completely hung up with banks. I'm supporting the sale of banks, I think the state has way too much money in the financial system, but it's gonna take time to get rid of it. Therefore, I believe that it is normal for us to look at other ways in which we can speed up investments and finance them for a short time, although, in the long run, it is wise to dispose of possessions like financial institutions in return.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u22	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. A member of the body says that this presents a challenge. I don't think we can be able to preach a campaign in investments completely, and everything depends on us selling at some particular time. However, if we begin to state that we have begun a business career with the bank, we realize that in years to come, the value of the sale will return to the State, and thus we will be able to bridge the gap by financing what needs to be done before making the real thing happen. I don't think there'll be a huge problem in itself. I'm also going to mention here that in recent years we've prepared ourselves for this by paying up the debt of the state fund on a large scale, thus ensuring a wealth of access to a much less expensive budget. I have often been criticized for in this hall that we were even putting too much money away in the last few years, and how often you haven't gone to the interview shows and got criticized for that while the job is waiting. But now, when the economy cools off, how much more is it worth returning when it's going well to deal with the situation when it slows down?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u23	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of innovation for taking the time to discuss this important matter. When I asked for this special discussion in October. was a recent assessment of Kristófersson Már Christophersson, a professor at the University of Iceland, of contributions to research and innovation by national parts of 2014◯2018. The results were fairly striking in the distribution of these proposals, but the fact is that the largest part of these growths is largely at the capital area. So I wanted to ask the highest. The minister of the following questions: Who does a minister consider to be a prime explanation for the success difference between parts of the country? How does the minister support research and innovation outside the capital area? Is it a minister's policy to increase the number of public jobs belonging to her case outside the capital area? It is of little greater importance to me than to support a wide range of occupations across the country, especially outside the capital area, in view of the fact that all of this is an egg in the same basket too often. Based on the findings of Daði Már, it is clear that we do not achieve enough success, at least It seems that innovation companies and research projects outside the capital area are not going to be able to make good use of the country's funding system. No doubt there are many reasons for this. In some cases the funds may be available. not to those in need, and in other cases there may be a lack of the knowledgeable basis and the knowledgeable support, access to applications and support for the structure of enterprises. A new creation center has the responsibility to support innovation throughout the country, but unfortunately, the fact is that although all the Agency's employees are willing, they cannot take care of the whole country at the present time. Is it really sad to see, as noted in the Ministry's answer to my inquiry recently, that the Agency's officials outside the capital area have declined in recent years, but in recent years there has been no proposed work center for the Creation Centres in the East. So I want to take advantage of the opportunity here in this discussion and challenge the highest. Minister to correct that situation. New creation is based on ideas, but it is just as hard on perseverance as it is one of the things that the New Creation Center supports and needs to be supportive, giving encouragement and support, and counseling on how pioneers are continuing their ideas. Another factor that is important in many areas is the inexpensive access to pioneers as well as in some cases access to specialized housing such as wet and approved kitchens. We have seen at the malls, such as the Icelandic cluster and the Icelandic clusters, as well as in the development center of Iceland, how important it is for pioneers to be in creative environments with others who are working on various projects and even experts in their field. So many things happen when you're drinking coffee in the coffee shop. Then finally it's the money. Many may wonder why the State should be supporting innovation, but the fact is that the coming of the State is important. For example, economist Mariana Mazzucato has an e.g. Shows that many of our key inventions, such as all components of a smartphone, are developed for government projects. Part of the innovation problem, especially outside the capital area, is a shortage of patient capital and, in fact, lack of capital support. However, the fact is that financial institutions refuse to participate in ambitious outside the capital area because they are too risky and simply seem to be particularly concerned about the location of an assignment. In this context, Google's search engines are a source of strength from the United States Science Fund, and Tesla did not start until the company received $465 million from the U.S. Power Institute. Yesterday, a solemn ceremony was used to disassign the Eastern building fund. The ceremony was postponed, amazing, but true, due to the weather. It was interesting to consider that distribution in view of the low level of production and research fund from the East. This year, the total number of applications, 71 cultural projects, and 55 newly formed and commercial development were given only 60 projects received a strong distribution. This number of applications clearly shows that there is no lack of exciting ideas and projects in the east or abroad, but the building funds are likely more available for companies and projects that are taking their first steps. However, these strengths can be of enormous importance to these companies, and there are examples of Kercis's company at Isafon, who began their work after winning the Western Prize. So I think it would be a very important thing to promote support for innovation in the country, to take steps toward strengthening the building up of the parts of the country. [[The president calls.]] I'd love to hear if it's the highest. A minister doesn't agree with me and is ready for that assignment with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u24	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Furbífjörður Elisdóttir for bringing up this vital discussion about research and innovation outside the capital area. As many times has been shown in my case, and I know that we are. A senator wholeheartedly agrees, a powerful innovation is a prerequisite for us to face all the major challenges we face today and the future. That's why I'm celebrating this discussion as well as anyone else who's about to create a new one. One of our major challenges today is the rapid development of the fourth industrial revolution, and our joint task is to ensure that these changes do not lead to increased separation in society. Therefore, we must promote research and innovation in all areas of society, whether in urban or rural areas. The report of Daði, the Már of Kristófersson, as a man. A senator referred to, was investigated how research sponsors and innovations were scattered across geographical areas during the period of 2014◯2018. Various public competitive funds were examined, but also tax charges due to research and development and direct contributions to university. The report noted that the largest part of the enterprise was to the capital area, since most applications from that area were applied. However, the success rates of applications varied greatly according to national parts, where the capital was no greater than any other region. Thus, success rates were highest on the West, both the Technical Development Fund and the Research Fund. There is, of course, evidence of a powerful research and innovation work in that area. However, when the total financial contributions were compared to the population, it was observed that the northwestern region was equal to the capital area in each population, and in general they were more valuable to the university sector. This, of course, reminds us of the importance of education and skill in research and innovation. Technology fund, under my Ministry, bases its distribution rules primarily on the quality of applications regardless of where they come from. The fund's contributions were increased a few years ago and the size of the fund grew, but there were also a large increase in the number of applications today only about 12% of reports that receive strength at a time. From a national point of view, this means that an average of eight applications have to be made from the relevant part of the country in order for one of them to be strong and most of the years the application parts of the country are less than eight. The application in Technical Development Fund is not necessarily the best solution to pioneers in the country. Rather, we need to look at the support environment in a larger context and to watch. for how to expand national education and skills and even draw out the unique status of each part of the country. We see that infrastructures, such as schools and research, are what must precede in order for the others to come. In addition to the support of competitive funds, in recent years we have greatly increased tax returns to companies on the basis of research and development. This is in accordance with the government's policy for advanced research and development and improving the competitive conditions of innovation companies. Here, there have been relatively few applications from the country to this point, we'd like to add and we've stressed the presentation of this national support. I think I mentioned this on every business trip the other day. In cooperation with the Department of Economics and Economic Affairs, we are also starting with an analysis of the effects of these taxes, including we will use the evidence to further shape this official support. A new creation policy is an emphasis on direct support and action rather than a management. In that spirit, we do not have plans to increase the number of public jobs in the area of innovation in the country. We'd rather use more integrated measures and more cooperation across the Ministry, so research and innovation are tailored to the needs of the relevant parts of the country and to the reasons for the people living there. For example, we are interested in improving the support of innovation within the nation's parishion Plans and better making better use of the infrastructure available for research, innovation, and employment development. We are, for example. In cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Culture, following a resolution adopted here by the Conspiracy and the Pirates, if I know the right, to work for a more specific digital product, FabLabab, across the country. These carpenters are running in eight different parts of the country in cooperation with high school and closer to the environment, and we want to give this work more stable ground beneath our feet because it simply gives us the opportunity to activate creation and infrastructure across the country. I have to use these last seconds to say the word. A senator when she notes that it is important for pioneers to get around with other pioneers. Hv. paritaprevir Similarly, Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir has said that this is a matter of more living and less distances. It is in the spirit that we imagine this structure in the country, that there is actually an environment and a situation for people to get together, where they get into a machine, they get into a cup of coffee with all the others who are also thinking about starting a business, because this is how these trees, this new opportunity, will spring up when we water the garden. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u25	Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank the advert for this important discussion and an excellent speech. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Frisbjörg, the daughter of Elíasdóttir There is a great difference between institutions and university environment and general pioneers in applying to competitive funds. It's a foundation that's worn by government money, like, for example. Food or the New Creation Centre in Iceland is on top of a position to gain the strength of competitive funds. The Agency can establish a secure tournament fund funded by government funds and large selections of experts who are also on the salary of a government fund. This requires the general candidate, who is often in the habit of putting all his hand-made funds into an assignment and is under attack by the acquisition of expert assistance. So it is not true when the report says that the fish that calm down, some of them simply send the catch straight to their homes. Of course, this point involves the difference between parts of the country, where most institutions of these privileges are in the capital area, but general pioneers are scattered throughout the country. The pioneers, where intelligent workers can gather and work on their tasks in common or in particular against a modest rent fee, are an important part of the subsidiary support that the government has, unfortunately, little thought of. On a bridge on the Southnes, the pioneer center was Elney. There were numerous pioneers who worked on their assignments and, for example, Val energy. Kadeco, a government - owned development society, was assigned to get houses on Ásbek in general practice, and last year, kitchen housing was sold from pioneers and placed on the street. Government promises were no longer enough. The rent in Eley was moderate, but after that, they had to rent a house that was four times more expensive and much less convenient. [[The president calls.]] No alternatives have been made. This example, Mr. President, unfortunately, shows the indifference of the government when it comes to the affairs of innovation in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u26	Mr. President. A professional health committee was introduced this morning in Iceland's Neo-creation policy to 2030. Indeed, it is ambitious and important to follow it. There are great opportunities for innovation, and there are many of them in the region, and there are resources in the country, both land and sea, and in food production, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, food supplements, and all kinds of fully developed high-tech companies. This is known, of course, to companies that have been built up and are successful, such as the Skaggis, Kercis, from Isafjords, and other companies in the building phases, the Latineast at the Rhools. Wild lady on Turfjörður, Biopol on Skaga Beach, and Pure Natura in the Sheep's Crooky. These are all the companies that are growing and growing, and we need to be supportive. It needs to be a supportive and competitive environment, which is in order and should be directed to further research and pioneers rather than to management and development as the highest level. Minister mentioned. They need immune funds and to coordinate the operation order in order to start sceptres. There's been an enormous increase in funding for research and pioneers. But it must also be returned to the country, as mentioned here. I think a lot of things need to be played together to ensure further research and innovation in this country. The government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, has emphasized the importance of building up. You might look at ways to ensure that research and innovation are more relevant to the country's settlements and that people from all parts of the country are applying for strength. For example, an examination might be made. that the earmarks of certain parts strengthen each part of the country. Iceland has a lot of resources, engineering and ingenuity, and we need to make the most of it and also use our school system to stimulate pioneers and innovation. There, too, we have great opportunities, to begin immediately in the school system with that thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u27	A respectable president. A simple question: Why can the United States be part of the Asian Development Bank and not want to create Iceland's Development Bank? This is a bit of a question and an interesting contradiction in this, since one of the biggest problems is both sceptre companies, companies in research and development, and even older production companies today, that they have no access to funding to expand and create something new and do better and more. The banks are contracting the sails of loans to companies in general, and when such loans are rendered with heavenly interest. At the budget board, we were at a meeting at the Federal Bank yesterday showing the development of loans in the recent stages, where loans are quickly down, especially to companies. Foreign investors are only very careful, and to a limited extent and foreign investors are hardly able to look to Iceland, mainly because of fear of an irresponsible control system and an unstable currency, which according to the UN Bank projects, has certainly been successful in recent times, but the danger is always present. We need more time to prove ourselves. Although developing funds, such as Rannis and Technologies, are doing good things to get companies started, their funds are all too small and are helping almost exclusively on initiatives, not when they are ready for mass production or marketing. There are many things to do, and the government has claimed to intend to respond, for example. with the Krista Fund, but it won't be possible until after the next election, and it's completely unclear how his funding will be handled, from which money he will have to play, and what the rules will be about investments. In short, it is just a vague promise made by the lndependence Party that they think they're going to do in the next government, but it may be in the campaign.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u28	A respectable president. Thanks for this discussion about research and innovation outside the capital area. The discussion is, in fact, primarily about the official musculoskeletal systems of innovation, which directly and indirectly affect all innovations and how things work out and motivate innovation. This has been a guide to the bitter difference in the distribution of capital between parts of the country. Here we have a transfer system of funds, which surely should not be distributed evenly to all individuals of the country, but must be used for all parts of the country. Society needs opportunities for the whole country. We have to, and we have to do innovation and research all over the country. In this way, we will ensure the whole country's competitiveness. New births build even On the basis of an already existing job and natural environment Then we add our own intelligence. There was no significant difference in the success rate of candidates between land areas, but there is a high degree of variation in the land cover. The multitude of them is heard, namely, the fish that row. But they are the ones who catch boats and rivers as fish. Those standing on the tray do not. Land parts without local university and counsellors are less effective. Over too many years I've been discussing how it is possible to expand research and innovation in the country. My conclusion is that three things are most important and that we need to be improved. All parts of the country require local university and university education. To do that, we have to take up responsibilities at the university. It also needs to create incentives and emphasis on the public funds that promote or even put the priority of applications directly related to national components, and it needs an active national support system all over the country. Add to good innovationism, and FabLab is a fine start.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u29	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for the subject here, which in itself is important. I think that when we talk about innovation in general, when we talk about employment policy, and when we talk about regional policy, it's very important that we really understand that there's some difference between these things, even though they obviously support each other. New creation, as indicated by the word, is doing something new, completely new, or doing something new. Another factor is to start a business with a good idea that may not in itself be amazing, but it is very important in that area or wherever it appears. I think it's very important that we don't confuse terms with meanings. There is so much to do. Building a strong job life throughout the country can depend on various factors. I find myself there, e.g. That we have always put too much emphasis on the country's construction and agriculture, that's alpha and Omega all. Of course, we need to arrange the means by which the funds of free will are available, for whatever ideas are available, but do not bind them to someone specific, for with freedom and freedom, things happen. I think it's the point that we make knots that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u30	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for your good discussions. I kind of think the obvious project here is that governments will provide equal protection in terms of the opportunity to collect from the rest of the support system and encourage the world's institutions and individuals all over the country to collect more from research and innovation funds. It is, of course, the obligation of the government to develop scientific and innovation across the country. We settlements, as I would like to say, are now no worse than the people in the capital area. I want to mean that we should sit at the same level as that. The people in the country are also interested in sharing in prosperity and, for example, in the field. The traffic flow that's been here. Many who are trying to make a living and have ideas for small companies, but often and often it's very difficult to make money. So I believe that despite the highest. During a tour of the country, a minister said that it encouraged everyone to collect from this fund, first of all, it is possible to simplify the entire rule around the fund. Besides, it's not enough to go round and say this here and there, though the will is good, it's gotta be better advertised. People must be encouraged and guided. It is as if this were kept under the carpet so much that the individuals who would have liked to collect from the fund do not even know how to do it. This is difficult for them, and they need help. In view of the ambition we make for the future, it is now in the power of the government to settle this throughout the country and to help those in need.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u31	Mr. President. New creation is the password, but we who know the financial laws like the back of our hand see that this thought has not reached the minister's point. Let's review five chilling facts from the budget: 1st Research fund receives directly less money this year than last year in the brand new budget of this government, and the reduction is 20% in two years. 2. Weaving fund is also reduced from year to year. 3. Similarly, the scientific and technological agenda has been reduced from year to year in the patrol of this minister. 4. The key fund for technology is also less a year than last year according to current financial laws, with a decrease of more than 20% in two years. It's a huge reduction to a key fund at the scene of innovation. 5. Now the reduction in reimbursement from film making in Iceland is about 30% between 2019 and 2020. This government reduces the amount of money to films by 30% between 2019 and 2020. Mr. President. These are all important funds, products of innovation, which are used no more from year to year, but less and clearly in the context of this government's budget. Now, especially, there is a need for innovation in the region. Officials play a vital role in strengthening innovation and evolution. The increase in funds for innovation and research is directly making money. They create a wide range of employment and strengthen the settlements. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. We need a government that understands this and asks for it, not backwards, as this government does.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u32	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flandish the daughter of Elíasdóttir for this discussion, which is of utmost importance. Many good things have come up here, although not everyone has good ideas about evolution. Of course, it is very important, as indicated in the minister's speech, that the country's settlements and, of course, the main pioneers and their ideas are at the same table. I think that's the most important thing, because it's hard to share down the number of heads out of the country. What we also need to remember is that in this room the environment of the innovation is what it is for those who work in that field. The quality of applications is almost expert, almost all the experts in applying for this fund and uncertainty, and the wait is long. We need to adjust our permits forces, tax systems, and regulations so that it takes into account the countries we prefer to compare with, where such things happen almost at a light speed when we offer many months of waiting. Defeature is a part of innovation, and it is inevitable, as shown at a meeting on a professional committee this morning. But the surrender is unacceptable, and that, of course, is what we are guided. It is also so that the pioneers and the industry live in what appears to be often in a regulation environment other than, for example, Our neighboring countries in the European Union, who still make up the rules we pick up. We need to examine it. At the end, I'd like to mention that the pioneers who have grown under the protection of a powerful career and who are on the market around the world also began on the first step.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u33	Mr. President. I'd like to thank you for bringing this important matter up, and also thank you for giving me the highest degree of credit. Minister. This discussion shows that there is a great difference between the distribution of funds to innovation and the effectiveness of the country. Some parts of the country have been divided. I've got the highest. Recently, a minister travels around the country, and he has faced a problem. So I'm going to talk in my speech about agriculture. In recent years and decades, how has the innovation of agriculture been? I suspect, Mr. President, there is no such thing as a wealthy park to cry, although there may be light points like, for example. Development of dairy products New creations occur only to a very small extent among the peasant class itself. She's on her knees, as you know, and there's no money for innovation. You can hear from farmers when you visit them that there is very little room for innovation and even lack knowledge of applications, as we have seen here. I also want to mention other products, e.g. The sheep that has now brought us here for centuries. For meat, wool, yesterday, etc. has been trying to make more valuable things out of people who are ill in many parts of the world than have gone very tragically. There's a lot of work to do, and I'd like to point out that between farming and fishing soil and innovation, in these two basic national working roads, there's sky and ocean.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u34	Mr. President. Investment in knowledge and innovation is some kind of subsidence in the economy. New creations are usually taken in four steps or phases; it's ideas, it's analysis work, it's evolutionary work, and eventually production. It is in the last two phases, or phases, that we are doing worse than we are doing and that provide financial support. There is something in this part of the world. It is near nature, which, of course, is our main resource. It's agriculture, it's seafood, it's grass, it's grassy, and there's a variety of minerals. This knowledge requires that we make better use of ourselves than we have so far and contribute to it. I'd like to mention two things in that relationship. On the one hand, there's a new fund, some kind of running treasure I wanted to call it. So the already existing funds, technology funds, and research funds, can be considered secondary. This fund, on the other hand, consists of the risk money for enterprises that are going into innovation, can disappear if this is not working, but it can also be imagined as being a share money, which then slowly reverses. It's the profits of a state used in this fund. It can be money from foreign countries, business there, it can be from a bank share, it can be from power companies' profits. A three - to five - year - long national campaign will be followed by a presentation meeting that presents experts in innovation, scientific experts, and capital experts in the field assured through this particular fund. There are a lot of people I know, Mr. President, but sometimes we need to add.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u35	A respectable president. In these sectors, there are very many problems, but there are also plenty of solutions. Perhaps there is a greater lack of solutions that have been problematic, but the government's parish and government policy has been the innovations to the major parties, not e.g. building on academic or based funds or something like that. V.E.G. Minister spoke of digital carpenters, FabLab. Hv. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir said that FabLab was a good start in this situation. I can heartily agree, but when I went to visit the digital carpenters of Akureyri during the past week, they were concerned about financing because it comes from different places. They were worried that funding was disappearing. There was no indication that the synoptic arrangement adopted by all members of the council was followed. I eagerly wait for the financial program that will be published right now because it can be reasoned that it is the first opportunity to react to that body of Congress. If there is going to be nothing left empty, if there is no financial action against this council resolution and added to it, we will simply see that the government is not going to respond to what the council is asking for. There's been talk of a lot of things. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Hjaltason Luis spoke of innovation in agriculture, which is also a very interesting point, an awesome innovation throughout the country. There's a Wasabi industry, they're talking about laureun farming on the Westlands, they're growing industrial modes on Eastern Europe, they're growing barley for whiskey productions and rivers. But all these places meet certain obstacles. These little people who are trying to get started and do something exciting to stop them, they're short of funding, regulations, and stuff like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u36	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flandish the Elíasdóttir of Elias for starting this discussion. Hv. paritaprevir Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir introduced the importance of local university education and the role of a university in the parish and innovation community. Then I'd also like to mention the importance of knowledge levels, or university levels, far and wide throughout the country. More often than not, they work with research that has some feature to do with their homework, thus supporting new, fertile thinking and even in the old trade fields. However, although the government has supporting systems of innovation, local societies also need to emphasize the need to draw the service out of the country. From my point of view, it is well attempting to establish some kind of support department or adviser who would assist companies, organizations, and even rural groups in the research and innovation fund. There is no lack of interest in moving ahead. Rather, there is more need for help. This arrangement could clearly result in the development of farms and employment development and provide better living conditions in the country. A respectable president. In the end, I want to start talking a little bit. paritaprevir Gauti Hjaltason on agricultural allowances. I would like to mention Matize, who is a man of considerable attention and who works primarily in the food industry. I mention the University of Agriculture of Innunna, and then it's also a Manufacturer's Fund. True, agrienvironment schemes are always better than they are, and I wanted to promote them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u37	Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank you very much for having a good discussion here today, and hopefully we'll see the good will that was presented in the discussion becomes reality. I agree specifically with what was going on at the highest level. Minister and minister. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative on the importance of access to education and research institutions and, of course, the FabLinkers that I look forward to seeing the truth and must ensure financing. Sadly, though, national competition stands out, as shown in the discussion, in many areas. For example, there are those who live outside the capital area when it comes to accessing experts. They need to make up their own strength to cover their travel expenses. If you are working e.g. in the food industry and want a specialist from Matis with you on the job, you have to pay for it to the country. Is that a natural competitive situation? Similarly, we need to do so, as it were. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson came in so well, strengthening our fine funds that promote innovation and research work throughout the country. It is especially important to promote the building up of parts of the country, and I hope to the highest. Ministers are working with us to promote this fund, at least ... doesn'thavethecontinents of the United States of America. There are so many things you can do better, and hopefully this discussion will be a source of encouragement to the Senate to promote it more fully. Mr. President. You see, good ideas are born wherever people live, but access to support, capital, and education are essential when it comes to bringing this good idea into the real world. We must not fail to support good ideas simply because they did not exist in the capital area. We need to do better, and I hope that we will see to that in the coming financial programme as well as in the highest level of action. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u38	Mr. President. Thank you for a very nice and helpful discussion here today. The request of the Scientific and Technical Council was given to Daði Kristófersson, a lively debate on the importance of supporting research and innovation throughout the country. I'd like to come to a few things. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson mentioned that there is no amount of money to enter the innovation environment. That's not true at all. Foreign investors arrived, e.g. ... withmorethan 15 million dollars to Iceland last year, including To Isenafjar, whether it be Kercis, Oculis, Sidekick Health, GRID, Lavacheese, and others and others. So there is no need to speak down the results of this environment that are making and that are crucial. Of course, we want to do better, and Kría is the project, and the fund is the major operation in that field. It is designed to improve the financing environment in Iceland. Because of the need for funds other than banks, we are setting up Koria. Once, we had a bank function that helped the fishing road invest in tugs and other items to build up the sector, and now we are doing what is needed to promote this environment. It's a lot of nonsense to say that Kría is some kind of a sacred promise that will come sometime and be someone else's. We're building a bill. We expect this in a financial program. This is about to become a reality, and this will make a difference to the new-born environment in Iceland. If you succeed, I believe this will bring us up not just one step but a few in this environment. New creation is simply a fundamental source of valuables in Iceland, the whole country, and the whole country needs to be included in this. New birth is not a backup station when another one breaks down. It is the most basic valuable creation in Iceland. It is also not a luxury to have on its side to look good. Rather, it is what will help us to meet all the challenges we face, whether they are economic challenges, demographics, climate, or anything else. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I look forward to having continued discussions about innovation and thank you very much for your discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u39	The President has received a letter on the reinstatement. Hv. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé calls up another three-way query. 381 per case 336, of digital redundant printing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u40	A respectable president. I did not specify in my advance the matter of what he was making, but I will explain it in the votes of events. I think it's a very important matter and it's time to fix what's right here. I make comments to specifics, but the comments aren't large enough to justify independent opinions. However, I wanted to make a formal account of the warning that turns to the a- team 1. And F-and-G- teams 2. and will do it better afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u41	A respectable president. This is no huge change. It's suggested that we take four years instead of three years to become an Icelandic citizen here on the basis of marriage with an Icelandic citizen. This is done for a relatively technical reason, for the reason that there is a provision for making such a provision for three years, it is reasonable that it takes four years to become an Icelandic citizen. Although I can understand that argument, I do not object to extending my time for four years. This is not a big thing, however, and I vote against it, contrary to what appears on the lightboard. I vote against the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u42	A respectable president. I just want to make one little remark. This is an additional authority to deviate from the terms 1 and 6 numbers of 1 mg. Count 9. information from local or previous habitats if the applicant's circumstances are unusual and rich fairness would recommend it. That's where I would've preferred to be: On the other hand, it is being added a warrant for compromising conditions that I support. The introduction of literature from home state may be appreciated in Iceland, where we live in a peaceful and excellent environment. It may not be anywhere in the world, so it is only natural for this source to be installed. So I'm gonna back her up and vote with her.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u43	A respectable president. Here's the ideal exit food for some more conservative classes. The F- force is that whoever is considered a threat to important national interests, national security or foreign policy is not entitled to Icelandic citizenship. That doesn't sound so good. However, this law is not clear in my opinion and, in particular, the concept of national interest, to be taken into account. It contains, for example, magazine on business interests. Then you wonder: " What if a Chinese man with a lot of suspense and a great pain and great influence on Chinese governments and Chinese government officials threaten to break free trades with Iceland? Is that important to national interests? According to one report, it is vague and unacceptable to me, so while the purpose of the article is good and justified, such things need to be explained to me. In addition, this is when the conditions for having a home permit and therefore, in my opinion, are really unnecessary, though the objective is positive in itself. I'm sitting by. I don't mind the article, but I'm sitting by.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u44	A respectable president. This is a requirement for further implementation of Article 1 and 5 of Figures 1. Count 9. The law. There are two viewpoints, one on the other, the clarity of the law and the other, the flexibility of the situation. You can reason on both issues. When it comes to such important rights as a citizen's right, I think it's in the law and that it's clear. On the other hand, I believe it is reasonable to believe that there is a temporary legal authority to determine how these laws should be. So I would suggest that regulations be granted temporarily, but then the arrangements would be most suitable for the next law. On the other hand, it is not the custom, rather the other way, so I avoid putting aside this particular law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u45	A respectable president. About Section 3. This bill is a source of joy for me as we see it in an effort to clear evidence of minorities that have required guilt. I have regularly criticized that we are at the council Hall taking sides with such applications, as is known before the ceremony. Rather, I think it was designed to ignore the reasons for allowing this authority to go completely up to what is defined as a prison for more than ten years. Run the case between the 2nd and 3rd. I think it would be reasonable for the committee to add a little bit to the argument for keeping the higher penalty standards inside that I don't consider reasonable. I will vote with the articles on the basis of my approval that the lower guilt criteria have come in.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u46	A respectable president. Here's a vote for one of the more important rules in my opinion, where fines are raised, but other things are also changed less often, which is extremely consigned to the current laws as they have been so far. These level of fines are often spoken of as out - of - date. That in itself is not the main point. The important thing is, if you get the legal rights of two fines and they total more than a hundred thousand dollars. He'll never ever get a citizen's right to life in Iceland. They'd get them sooner if he went to two or ten years in prison and they'd wait for him once, but if he got two tickets and they went over 100,000. Clearly, this is a fault in the law, obviously not the lawgiver's will, but an unambiguous law text. This has led to many cases for the General Information and Education Committee on this basis, which has been considered by members of the Committee on Public Affairs and Education. I have hoped that this change will reduce pressure on the Subcommittee and reduce the need for an alternate approach to reaching a conclusion that seems like the greatest body of Congress to me anyway. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u47	Mr. President. This bill is rooted in massive violations involving the counterfeiting of driving signals in automobiles, violations directed against financial interests and traffic security. The case brought a severe reaction to a number of people at the time of the event. Government reactions may have been rather soothing, as is the case with the bill. For this reason, the members of the Central Party on the Work Board suggest that the case be referred to the government, where it works better. Other than that, we members of the Central Party will not vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u48	President. The case in itself is not bad, but there is only a possible step that could have been taken in the light of Procra, i.e. When people cheat motorists and, as a result, sell more valuable property and sell more secure possessions. They do not know how to handle the vehicle equipment because information about miles is wrong. That's what this is all about, so I'll accept it as it is here, but it's the least possible step that could have been taken. You couldn't keep out of your rental. The case could have been held over a dealer. There could have been more fines. Today, it doesn't matter how many people do wrongs, although it was 148 times only 2 billion. K. A fine. It would have been possible to do much more, and all who presented the committee, discussing the aspect of the matter, agree that these words do not discourage those who want to cheat. [[The president calls.]] Men who cheat once on miles and sell the car have this $2 billion. K. A fine. [[The president calls.]] 147 more times, people are making a lot of money. That's not enough. I'll accept the Central Class subjugation so that the Minister can work the case better than if it gets dropped which it will be, I'll still agree with the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u49	Also, time is not to be cheated.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u50	Mr. President. I just want to briefly explain my position not to be at the majority party in this case. Simply put, I don't think that's far enough. Like what? paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson was well informed earlier, making it very clear to the members of the committee that there had been a reason to go further. Even so, it is a very good step, and we support it and do not consider it to be a reason to delay.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u51	President. It would be good for a minister to observe or stay in the hall when it comes to paying votes on a paradox in her language. There are issues to return the case to the minister. These are the smallest possible steps you can take. There could have been much more to do, a minister should have done much more, and we discussed it on the committee. We prayed that a minister would be contacted to look at things. True, a minister may be told one thing to say, a message came back that a more precise point should be set in the Regulation. In the case of the committee, the matter was only fixed, but it would be good for us to find the answer to the question: What will a minister do as a result? We also asked to send a message to the secretary of transportation and local government not only to place these laws for rentals but also to car sales and individuals. One who lowers the number of miles on the meter that not only leads to financial damage but also makes traffic security to know that it is illegally complete. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u52	Mr. President. On this matter, it is true that this is a matter of dealing with a case that has been raised, and it involves a change in administrative policies in this regard. You may think that it is possible to go further than I think that there is some solid solid convergence that it is right to take the steps here. I'm glad to hear it, and even if there's anyone down there. The officials of the government may have wanted to go further, but most of them seem to want to support the situation at this time. On the other hand, I need to ask men to keep in mind when considering such issues as these, that in general, if they resort to deception or fraud in order to gain financial gain, it may be a violation of penal law. This may be the case with fraud, so the administrative legislation involved here is not the only alternative that may have to be taken because of such cases. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u53	Mr. President. I was an authority on this case in the absence of each other. paritaprevir Njáll of Trausti, son of Friðbertsson. True, some comments were made on the job trade committee, but they pointed primarily to the fact that these laws should also be followed by other members. It was also noted that laws were required to be passed like automobile sales and other such that may be somewhat fragile to alter drivers. So I think this case is going well in order to prevent such a thing from happening again, as it happened to the rentals, that there's been a lot of moaning. The amount of government fines can always be debated, but they come up well with what they're trying to reach. Like what? A member of the council mentioned earlier also applies the penalties to these members who are performing such a violation so that I believe these laws apply to them and that they will need to respond to any other legal procedure if we are going to reach more parties. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u54	A respectable president. Here we see how the Generals find it normal to respond to determined violations, frauds, and frauds. It takes little steps or no steps. Are we talking about changes in administrative matters, or are we talking about general penalties? That's not what it's all about here. It is more about what tools the lawgiver has to send out a clear message to the society of those who, with determined violations, have acted as if it were a car renter in this case. We've got more tools in that bag. Without hesitation, I would have used the tool of removing the license for a certain period of time. Without hesitation, I would have sent a clear message that it is not enough to pay a small fine and then be able to keep busy. Think twice, good car sales, before you act in a determined way the offenses that you obviously do. I'm promoting the Middle Party's motion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u55	Mr. President. I'm coming up here for our discussion with this bill, okay? paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, on 1st. where I asked why. A senator whether or not it would be to tie the hands of a personal guardian, as the bill says, too much and to limit the freedom of the individual's expression too much if he sees anything different in his work. We agreed in the previous rules that if it was a matter of public interest, it was allowed to report events. We are also working on a matter in the council regarding the protection of informers, but it appears that this question was not answered in the Committee for 2rd. I understand that the matter did not enter the committee, so I wondered if it might be right for the committee to answer just questions about whether we were binding this particular employee too much more than any other employee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u56	A respectable president. In view of what happened. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir went over to see if this provincial representative's hand too much I just want to make it known to my own degree, to whatever benefit it might be, that I don't think it is because the text says that the personal protective agent is going to be able to report anything he's learned about in his work and secret about going to the place. I'm sure we'll take a closer look and we'll be clear. If that's possible, I think it's a good treatment, but I wanted to come up with this and explain my interpretation of the arrangement as it is currently, with an advance view.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u57	A respectable president. Just in view of what has been presented here, I'd like to say that there was a slight difference between me and my wife. paritaprevir Helgadóttir Helgadóttir in his earlier discussion on this subject. I think it's all right for us to take the matter into consideration in the light of the three points quoted here so that we're sure to have harmony. It's not a good thing to have a law that's not consistent, so I think this should be a quick examination and just an examination from the Ministry and an explanation of the text so that we're completely clear. So I request that the matter be discussed with the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u58	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to correct a law on clock charges, no. 138/2013, with subsequent changes. The bill is laid...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u59	The President is bored with bad habits. When a speaker begins his case, members of the council are going to rush out of the court and rush out of the hall. He kindly asks that people sit in their seats or leave the room quietly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u60	A respectable president. The bill suggests changes in the reference charge laws for the currency of the plunger charge and the conditions of half the stamping charge. The objective of the bill is to contribute to a clearer and simpler tax gain in terms of collection of stamps. First of all, it is suggested that the payment of a pay sheet of documents relating to the possession of real estate, where registered real estate prices do not reflect the level of property as it is available to deliver it, the currency should be aimed at estimated prices that take into account the building level of the individual property when administering it. It also stipulates a standard that should be used when checking whether the amount required is properly specified in a restricted document as well as when making a decision about such a sum when it does not reflect the worth paid in accordance with the construction level of its property when handing it over. This suggestions can be attributed to the comments of the U.S. Marshal, who noted that these aspects of the law could be blurred in the present form. Second, a change in the law's terms on the conditions of a half-depth of a time stamp due to the purchase of the first apartment is proposed. The requirement is that the buyer of an apartment building must not have been a member of the synod for an apartment building before. It is suggested that the implementation of the condition should be simplified by a more clear definition of the requirement that the price of a half - price of a time stamp is that the buying of an apartment building had not previously been duly announced as a domestic property, whether by purchase, by successors, a donation, or any other form of property translocation. It is believed that by this change it is being unsettled by the legislator's will, although it has been a problem to cut the knot on this point in practice, because the discount should reach those who are building an apartment for the first time. It is indeed the threshold that we realize that it is quite high for the people of the land and that the purpose of the law is somewhat washed up if they may have been authorized to become church owners and, for example, became a donor, but later bought property for the first time, thus benefiting from the law. I hope it's clear enough. Third, the law's canceling on the terms of a half-depth of a time stamp due to the purchase of the first apartment. The requirement is that, at least, the buyer of an apartment building should become a member of the Parliament's House. Half the money you buy. Here I would like to mention that to the Ministry, there have been cases of young people buying their first apartment purchases with parental support, such as that of parents. Ten percent of the property, and then the roommates, 45% each, and by then the law rules out that a discount is taken from the plunger charge, even though both young people in the case of which I'm thinking of buying money for the first time. They have 90% together, but the law is a little too rigid, so to speak, to allow such cases to pass through. I believe that it is willing at the council to meet these events with the change because by deportation of the condition the first buyers will have a more varied choice of their ownership of the purchased home. We assume that the law of the bill will have a very insignificant effect on the survival of the state funds if the bill remains by law and I suggest, more recognizable President, that this bill will be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. at the end of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u61	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for advance on this bill. I think it's good in many ways, though I haven't fully studied it, I've wondered, at least one question. in the beginning. It may seem that humans will inherit something, possess some of it for inheritance, perhaps an earth, or something like that. It is often quite divided into land when it comes for it to go from generation to generation. As with many examples, humans may have the earth that, some of it, is a 153%, or something like that. They may be young people, and I'm asking if I'm right, as I've heard, that when they young people buy themselves back an apartment, this prevents the person from getting a discount on his first apartment. Of course, that need to be considered, for it is not really a lot of property and even more. Even if there's only a small amount of earth around the globe, it'll stop the person from enjoying this discount.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u62	A respectable president. This is a fine example of a case that can be wrapped up in the act of the law for us. So here it is suggested that there be a way to cut the knot so that people can benefit from the law of the discount at the first purchase, since they had not previously been authorized to become joint owners. This is a question of whether it was a purchase, a donor's inheritance, or otherwise the property was owned. If we want to develop this idea any further as long as possible. A senator is here opening the door and saying: If this was just a small property share in property, we should look through our fingers with it, I think it's a good example of a case that's probably going further into the stitches on, especially that the members of the Parliament discuss with those who have been doing the law and learn more about all the many cases that men have had to cut the knot with the question: On the right of the discount or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u63	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this reflection. This is very realistic, too, about property that is of little value in a country where people are part of it, as I mentioned in my earlier question. I'll say the highest words. A minister when he declares that this is something the committee should really consider. In many cases, this can be very unfair. I have heard of examples that people have not enjoyed this discount, which can learn a lot of money for young people who are buying an apartment, so perhaps some years earlier have inherited some share in property, perhaps in a country that is of little or no value and therefore does not enjoy this discount. I'll say the highest words. Ministers and I believe the Committee should consider this a great deal, and since the law can enter a minimum share in purchases so that he will enjoy the discount, there must also be a way to consider what I'm referring to.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u64	A respectable president. You're right next door. A member of the council that this sort of opinion has been brought up by the act of the law. In this regard, it is being suggested that we strike that knot by saying that the conditions of the discount are that men have not been churched before. It would be an alternative to saying either that it did not matter, even if they had previously been declared church owners, but it may contain very unfair cases. Suppose someone arfur an apartment and later decided to go into real estate, and he wants to enjoy the discount, for he has never bought an apartment before. I would say that in that case the lawgiver's will was not to be used by the person, he would not be trying to cross the threshold we've had in mind when we made the skirmish of the discount. It's a little black-white thing I'm drawing up here, but we can keep wondering if it's relevant to whether the person had taken a 60% share in an apartment. What if he had taken a 10% share in an apartment? It's absolutely true that this can be a little tricky, but if we want to pull the line somewhere else, I think it's the most important thing that the law is clear so that it doesn't come into play and people also know exactly what its rights are.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u65	A respectable president. This is where I recommend a bill to legalize a law on income tax change. The bill suggests that legal action on the legal authority of the state taxpayer's legal rights will be granted when legal documents fail to comply with legal requirements of 5 mg. 57st. income tax laws on metallurgy issues. At the same time, the wording of the same law makes it clear that there is also a legal arrangement for the business of the regular work station, and there is a slight change of speech without material change. I'd like to first say that the government tax president's concept has been on the nation for a long time, but at the end of the year, we changed together with the head of the state tax and the customs manager into the new name taxation that we should adopt in this case here. My talk magazine speaks of the governor of the tax but should have been discussed with the tax, according to the new concept. The key issue of all the initiatives in the cross-cutting process is that the documents' duties meet their obligation to document properly their business dealings with members. Therefore, it is urgent to submit a prior guilt warrant. In the contract of the law, there were newly established laws on real owners, No. 82/209, 15. Their laws on government fines, along with the 120th par. 6 / 15 2 2 2 2nd, 9 / 15 3/2006, but the neighboring country looked on on on on the level of guilt. It was then considered that a decrease in the level of fines would be needed if the legal body corrected the budget within two or three months, in the pattern of 120 C.E. 6 / 15 2 2 2 2nd, 9 / 15 3/2006, for information purposes. If this bill becomes a legal law, it is a recent tax law that the tax can be passed on the taxpayers because of the violations of the law beyond the appeals of 108. g. income taxation. The tax, on the other hand, has authority by another law to apply fines to the party, such as on the basis of the law on money thefts, laws on real owners, and annual bills in this direction to force a person to act as a lawman. Code XII. a section of income taxation, then 108. g. for the appeal of the tax and the ordinances of the 109th grade. the legal rights of an IRS investigator, are not considered to reach the point of knocking on information. It is thought that if the bill becomes a law, it will not lead to the grazing of 109. are excluded from the cross-cutting process, even if a prior ticket has been applied due to a later and/or insufficient return of information according to the 5 mgr. 57st. The law. It can be expected that the bill will have a significant impact, if approved, on the quality of the documents and the submission of the documents on the information due to the introduction of intermediate prices as this will result in the failure to provide information or provide insufficient information. In view of the results of the euthanasia of tax accounts and significantly improved return in annual accounts following the implementation of a guilty warrant in 2007 and after a significant renewal of the warrant in 2016, please refer to Article 120. 6 / 15 2 2 2 2nd, 9 / 15 3/2006. A law on the reduction of government fines if a taxpayer responds within a month to three months is also needed in order for taxpayers to see more benefit from responding to guilt rather than not. It is not believed that the effect of the change in the government government will be significant if the bill is legal. This bill is made up in the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs in cooperation with the head of the tax on the cross-cutting field and in consultation with the head of the IRS. At that time, the bill was presented in government consultations, and according to comments from sources, the changes were made, in some cases, taking into account the comments received. I expect an interest in continuing to do so will be an ongoing conversation here under Congress treatment. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u66	On February 17, 109 was a judicial hearing, a proposal to denounce the treatment of refugees by the U.S. government, referred to a global and educational committee. However, the matter was to be addressed to the State Department, and it has been corrected.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u67	A respectable president. I recommend a proposal for the resolution of democracy and transparency in pension funds. The suggestion is with me. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson. The suggestion reads: The General concluded to hide financial and economic ministers from providing a law bill by the end of 2020, with the goal of increasing democracy and transparency in pension funds. The bill hides. in combination with provisions that ensure that: a. Treasurers have the highest authority in the affairs of pensions, including those in the U.S.A. that the management of pension funds is offered for social meetings in accordance with the approval of the funds and the voting rights of a member of the club at a social meeting after the omission, and the due fees of funds, according to further legal requirements in the approved funds, b. The management of pension funds is elected each year at the annual meeting of funds, c. Directors and executives in pension funds must not own a property or do business for their own accounts in companies that share the pension fund or in those companies that make investments on behalf of the pension fund, These are the financial and confidentiality records of the management and head of the Department of Pension, The FEC will monitor whether the services of the management board and the head of the Pension Fund are compatible with the rules applicable to their work. The proposal stated that this case was previously presented at 149th legislature, 857, but was not successful. It must be different now, because it must be the greatest will of all to have legalized owners of pension funds, those who are legally forced to pay for their funds, get as much money as possible to say. This proposal suggests that the Allied Council agree to hide financial and economic ministers from giving the Allied bill to a law that has the objective of increasing democracy and transparency in pensions. It is suggested that the bill includes clear regulations that loyal funds increase power in the affairs of the pension fund, that their management have the clear mandate of funds, that there are no odds against the government's interest issues and the executives in the interest of pensions and funds, and increased monitoring of interest logs to prevent potential conflict. After the contracts in the spring of 1969, the management of the pension fund has generally been appointed to half of the sector's income-employers and the trade union, but without the arrival of the general funds, which, however, is accompanied by a payeror's obligation to pay in the pension fund of that profession or staff. Rewarders have always appointed representatives to a session in the management of pension funds, which has historical explanations and was founded at the beginning of their master's responsibility. - Well, let's see, there's been quite a change in the time since 1969, over a period of 50 years, as everyone knows. It's not only there that mutation has occurred in the structure and infrastructure of society and evolution but everywhere. The changes have been very extensive. Residents have always appointed representatives in the management of pension funds, and they have historical explanations, as I said before, and are based at the outset, around 1969, on the so - called master's responsibilities. A great change has been made in master's responsibilities and advancement in general. The forwarding responsibilities are largely transferred to public parties and are the main source of weight on the rural areas, with no share in the state. For example, whether they have retired because of age or because of disability, some think that a payer would have a responsibility to assist former employees. Thus, the ancient master's responsibilities have moved over to the government's insurance agency, the tax system in the form of child - interest reforms, pension payments, mortgages, and community service. Therefore, there is no longer the same reason why the payers are in the management of pension funds. - Just don't. What do the payers have in the pensions? It's people who own the pension money. - Then funds companies have a lot of financial interests to care for, and it's only natural that creditors are allowed directly to participate in the activities and policies of pensions by sharing and voting rights at the annual meetings of funds. In recent years it has been shown that the common people are not satisfied with a dominant system in which they are not bound to the business of pensions, which they are bound by law to pay. It is important, therefore, to move the power back to the cashmate and set clear rules for it. Is it suggested that in the bill of what will be submitted to the Council be included. It is required that the management of pension funds be offered for social meetings in accordance with the approval of the funds and the voting rights of the funds at social meetings depend on the appeals and will calculate their dues according to further legal requirements in the approved funds. It is reasonable, though, that a body member can provide others with a written commission to vote for social meetings. In this way, the movers have the right to establish a law that ensures that the election is elected each year. It is necessary to prevent any conflict of interest with the clear rules for the management not to own a property or to do business for their own accounts in companies involved in or doing business with the pension fund. At the same time, it is important to ensure that official monitoring is in the interest of the management and head of the head of pension funds so that action can be taken in the event of a conflict of interest. It is suggested in the bill that the UN will keep a record of the financial and confidentiality of the management and head of the Pension Funds as well as that they are being monitored for the interests and trust that would not become more valuable to the interests of pensions and funds partners. A respectable president. As it turned out, I could send in reviews to the fixed committee on this proposal, and I would like to mention the only report received. It was transmitted by the International Habits Association, and I must say that I am a little surprised not to be more interested in this matter. With the permission of a president, I will refer here to the review of the House of Isolation, which says: This arrangement is designed to increase democracy and transparency in pension funds, including by allowing the savings of pension funds to have a vote right. There are also rules to avoid conflicting interests and to monitor them. The domestic interests of this institution are in favor of the purpose of the proposal and, in fact, I just have to thank you for that. There's nothing more to say about this. I'm just redirecting the motion. I'm sure a respectable president knows where to go. I guess it's a board of directors and monitoring committee, but I'm not sure, so I'm quite willing to admit it. You're a little confused at all these committees. I just hope that these matters will be handled well and with respect for the rights of fellow treasurers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u68	A respectable president. I recommend the bill for the second time, so did I last year. It's even relevant. changes in health insurance laws and links to replacement operations and other measures that are long delayed. It is not simply that the list of waitings is long; the waiting period is what matters, and it is far too much, including that. Because the Landsaholic hospital is not able to take care of everything. We know of both the efflux problem and the human condition. We gave this bill, the members of the council on this case, me with the members of the Parliament, and two members of the Central Party, which are specifically linked to solving at least this matter is temporary, facing the problems and suffering that people have to suffer from waiting for an operation. This can be solved by certain means that we offer. Whether or not to show here. People have heard me say in the past that I feel that there's a certain crisis in my life. We are leaving a health - care system where there are co-ordinated ways where we are based on government services and then we also have other services in our community, wherever you might think, whether we are talking about nursing, dental services, or cancer - seeking, even though the cancer search is being extended to a higher degree at the National Hospital of ◯ University Hospital. Our health - care system has been mixing these ways, making clear the right people in the community for health care, and then trying to find the best way to care for people. Then, in my opinion, there must not be a measure of authority, as they do now. This mixed system is being removed to one state-run device. I'm not sure it's for patients or the government box itself. Our proposal for transport is to change 1 mg. Thirty-eight. legal on health insurance that date from 2008 so that in this article a new paragraph will be included which says: ▪ Filling up medical security conditions 23rd par. a to seek medical care in another EU Member State shall be paid the cost of that service in this country, although a health care agreement is not readily available, compare IV. section. Remuneration is required by a person who meets all requirements for this type of service and does not exceed the cost of service in another EEA country. The health insurance centre shall issue a regulation on the implementation of this directive. We believe this is the right way to deal with emergency waiting lists. As we know, a waiting list with a family doctor or a doctor will first be available to get into the waiting list for an interview to have a joint replacement operation, either on the hip, knee, or other. It has become an amazingly complex system, and we know that instead of making it up to three times less expensive at home, patients are sent to include. Sweden's private cocaine area costs up to 3 billion. K. This is crazy because we have a government and health minister who can't imagine continuing the mixed system that we've built up otherwise perfectly. It is worth noting that we and the members of the Parliament have suggested, including those of the reveries and the rest of the clans. to the budget, temporary sums of up to 200 million. K. to the health insurance so that the waiting list can be shortened and taken immediately. Here, not only once but twice, members of the Independence Party, senators of the Foreign Party, and, of course, senators of the left down our suggestions and other members of Congress. Somehow people need to be explained why they are. I can't imagine any other way to go before the government has to stick together. As a result, the independent party is just as responsible for this area as is the health minister and her class. They cannot assume responsibility for this. By 20. The Council and Council Regulations of the European Parliament and the health care professional are entitled to seek medical care in another EEA country if they are awaiting necessary treatment in the country following diagnosis of longer than the reference period of necessary treatment. The value of this Regulation was established in a Member State by the Regulation in 2012 on the implementation of EU Community Social Security regulations. The surgeon general set rules for such a target on June 15, 2016. An acceptable wait for an operation or treatment by a specialist is set 90 days from diagnosis. And remember, there's a waiting period ahead to get to the diagnosis first, and then there's an expert treatment, and there's also a waiting period. After 90 days, the right of a health insurance person to seek service elsewhere in the EEA region is established. It is well known that for years this country has been a long period of waiting for various measures and that there are no prospects for significant deterioration in the near future in various articles, e.g. joint replacement procedures. Last year the exact report by the surgeon general showed that despite a certain effort, this has not worked sufficiently. Because of this, several health insurance cases in Iceland have had such operations carried out in recent years and costs have been paid by Iceland's medical insurance if the requirements for waiting hours have been met. The strange situation is now that Iceland's health insurance doesn't feel allowed to pay the cost of a similar kind of operation in this country, although it was made by a person who meets all legal requirements to carry it out. The Synod has thus been supported by the lack of a contract between Iceland's Medical Insurance and the relevant doctor for the implementation of such measures, and the Agency has considered itself forbidden to make such a deal because of the office's decision. Due to the minister's position, health insurance has not felt authorized to go to these agreements. This approach has, in effect, led to a much higher cost of action, since operations abroad are far more expensive than the same actions carried out outside the national hospitals of the country, up to two and a half times more expensive. In addition, the travel and maintenance costs of health insurance and in many cases also fall at the expense of an escort. That is why we believe that this bill is a reason why this project will immediately be brought to the fore in the way of this bill. Okay, well, I've told you many times here that I can in itself understand a health minister, because it represents the ideals for which the left greens have fought, that everything has to be the state's, that she doesn't see the benefits of having mixed a system as we have so far, but we can't, at least, can't agree to solve even if only this waiting list problem by going to this campaign, including Because of the pressures at the Land Hospital ◯ College hospital, is that a lot? You can negotiate, for example. At the clinical situation, but I know there are also steps we can take, and those of the Skaga population, and also from the north, say they can help solve this. Let's all put our hands on the deck and resolve this temporary problem and this problem. People around me, both in family and in friends and cousins, have been waiting a long time. Tablets have been melted. We can imagine the cost of building an anti - inflammatory and analgesic environment. We're not talking about saving at that expense in this bill, so I'm going to beg the others. belonging to the Independence Party, to listen to us, and to accompany us on a trip to Lube and other classes to try to resolve this great project temporarily and to relieve the suffering of people who are on the list, to allow health insurance to negotiate with other members. I have mentioned other public hospitals or private members who meet all the rules and requirements we meet. No one's talking about turning off the taps, what a cockasakai talking about how we're turning off a tap for private people or other government agencies. It is said that the suffering and problems of people who have been on the list for a long time have been eased, and I know that here are members of Congress who agree with me on the matter of not allowing ideological criticism to interfere with the suffering of these people. Therefore, we put this forward, with the members of the council on this matter, in order to meet this problem and, as I say, the suffering of the people. We can work this out. Even if only temporarily, these works are possible, and that is what we hope to do. that the members of the welfare committee sees when they receive this matter under consideration and hopefully settle it quickly and safely from the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín's Þorgerður for this great bill. I just don't understand why I'm not on it, too, because I couldn't agree more. But that does not change the fact that I am at odds with what I am doing. A senator has a point of understanding the Supreme Court. Secretary of health. Actually, she's not in the hall to give her an answer, but I don't understand it because this is a call to meet those waiting and have waited to wait to get into surgery. The problem just keeps growing. Like what? A senator correctly points out that, for example, it is now being moved. into a National Hospital ▪ A university hospital even more of the cancer community's activities. We've seen it on the news, and I've heard it myself. I have a friend outside a town who is not just waiting for a parasurgical surgery for breast cancer. Rather, it needs to be taken away from her breast because her tumor grows in her. However, she is made to wait for some month after the operation, knowing that she grows that monster. She's not getting any service, nothing more. She had to wait a long time to get this diagnosis, and now the waiting list for women with breast cancer to get pictures at a Land Hospital at a U.S. National Hospital. Is it this way, a respectable president we want to see our health system go that basic human rights are completely submerged and flushed down? We have the right to health care, it's only a state of justice, a state of humanity. For a state that claims to be in the highest rank among the nations, it must be minimal that we can get appropriate health care - and right away. It is absurd to put us on a waiting list to wait for a waiting list to be on that list of waiting lists, that we must be sent to a foreign country several times higher than the amount needed to pay for it, and that we should have immediate action here at home. Just what does a mathematician come to this conclusion? I don't know, but I don't think there's a lot of math seconds behind it. I can't imagine that the individuals who approach such a situation would realize whether two and two people are four or something completely different. The situation today, and the course we are taking in health matters, is in many ways the last of them. The first contact should always be health care. That's great. That's great. How long do you have to wait for that contact when you may know that you need an expert? You're pulling your foot behind, and you're not supposed to go to the accident. No, they should go to the clinic. It must somehow, a respectable president, try to make this arrangements so that there are not all conflicts in the system because we are not all thrown into the same mold. We're not one person in Iceland, and we're all the same. We are as different as we are in our number and analysis of our diseases, and there are others as different as there are many of them. We need a special service, and it should be performed immediately, without exception. You should never save your money and throw away the crowns in these materials, never allowing an individual to stay at home for years and to work out of the labour market with all the losses society experiences. It is also known that a person who is from work and social interaction for a long time will find it much harder to get back into the process and the shape he used to live in before he finally gets - if ever - added the physical damage he has and the illness. It's a lot of things to look at. I can give you an example of health insurance. We've been told by the highest level. Health Minister in the fall of unsubstantiated question time to 10% of companies who want and need and have the right to be in contracts with Iceland's Medical Insurances, and it was just fine. It was all right that 10% of those in need of contracts had not been negotiated with Iceland's Medical Insurance. I've been having a conversation with a young woman - she's middle-aged today. She was born disabled and in a wheelchair. She's still waiting for NPA services, she's in a wheelchair, and she's waiting for the service we've established here to be thrilled for a year. At that time, everyone was very happy that we were good - but we had to say goodbye. Can you imagine, we've put a reservation on the MPA services for disabled people? There are only 90 people, but the others, who measure and judge who receive and who do not. I didn't want to be in that court seat. This particular woman who is still waiting for NPA service has been in the same hospital bed since she was a teenager. She has been begging for a new account over 40 years later, and the answer is simple: No. Can you imagine, she won't get anything? She's waiting for NPA services and she's not getting this bed. Of course, all mathematicians would calculate the problem differently, and every man with everything in his head must see that it's better to pay 1 million before an operation than 3 million. Therefore, I simply asked a financial committee at the time whether the Ministry of finance would have nothing to say about how the Ministry of State, even if they are independent, on its own, would have nothing to say when it was so obvious and deliberate that it was necessary to break public funds in certain demands. It's great that this case is presented here. I completely understand what it's all about, so I couldn't help but agree. I cannot understand why it was not approved at a 149th legislature, especially with what we're looking at. In the year since the last issue was delivered. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter has seen beyond any doubt that the problem is growing. The waiting lists are extending. It is one thing to want a powerful health - care center so that we do not vary according to the economy in order to take advantage of that service, but it is quite another to make it a waiting list, and it is just hipsumhas whether a person is upset before he or she is allowed to enjoy this wonderful service. That's another story again. The reality of life is not merely a matter of decommissioning people and allowing them to melt tablets with appropriate cost, discomfort, and pain on the waiting list for replacement operations. It is also a matter of reality when humans have been diagnosed with a terminal disease. Who can think of a terminally ill person being sent to his home and told to wait three months for an operation while his cancer grows? Is this Iceland today, Mr. Honorable President? The answer is: Yes. This is what we're looking at, and, in my opinion, I'm not going off it, it's totally unacceptable. This is not easy. I can't apologize for all of this. This kind of work I'll never accept.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u70	A respectable president. First and foremost, I want to thank you. A senator for a powerful speech, a very detailed speech, a much better speech, but really, it was because she came to the point of it, how it is. It's unpleasant, this is unacceptable, and it's that we in this chamber have had a chance to fix it, a chance to change it, but members of the Independence Party seem to be enough to write some persistent letter in the Morning newspaper and then come to the Hall and do nothing about what they were writing about. They continue to agree with the abuses of the process of joint replacements here and all, and continue to run what health ministers are doing in their own way. The General is not a label center for the government. We can do things together much better, but because this suggestion does not come from the right trial, it is out of the question. We have experience from the fact that when we put on prime radios, they are inset, human names or something else, and 15 minutes later the government will face them as their own case. Therefore, I hope that the government will record this, including... The independent group and the forwarding party ceased to accept this method and route established by the health minister. This is a check list, and waiting lists increase and increase. Thank you. A senator for this support of the case. It's a matter that I know that we'll be reunited with trying to push the welfare committee and try to get back into Congress because we can't tell the people to wait anymore and just break pills.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think we're a racer in the cheek, and I agree that it takes a little bit of trouble to see the Independence Party flogging what's happening here, the subversive that takes place in broad daylight in the health system. Like what? A senator knows that there are so - called government partnerships, and there are various walks and swallowings to keep the power and fine chairs under his ass. That's how I feel about it. Otherwise, I say, "If it's enough, it's better." Let's just keep moving. It's true as hell. One senator points out, perhaps 15 minutes later, they will be able to put their arms around the situation and treat it as their own. If so, we too can be joyful in the heart. Then our vision is accomplished, our fight won, and we know where good comes from. That's wishful. Once, there was a matter of decommissioning taxes and using equipment and medication for poor people. It was taken care of by everyone, not necessarily by government, but by all of us. Unfortunately, however, when governments are good for poor people and claim to be extending something to them, such as in this case, to cut off taxes and reduce the strength the poorest people need to buy equipment and medicine, they somehow manage to get it back somewhere else. Sadly, the person rarely has a few extra crowns in the envelope. It is not just what is involved in our health - care system. I'm going to hope I have an ally in it. A senator fighting the battle against poverty and what we are doing here, and our objective at this council, the Shockers, is to eliminate it completely because it is distressing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u72	V.E.G. President. I've come here to make a suggestion to make a synopsis of a judge's interpretation. With me are the carriers of Bergþór Ólason, Þórarinsson, Gunnar Páll Sóljönsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Jónsson, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, and the Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson. The Conspiracy proposal assumes that the Council of Justice is to hide the Minister of Justice preparing a legal bill for a change in the law of judges and translators. The bill includes changes in terms of legal judgment requirements, with the aim of increasing both the court seats and the language in Iceland. It is in this council resolution to request that the minister submit the bill no later than January 1, 2021. This proposal was proposed to a 149th legion rather late, and it could not continue and is now slightly replaced. According to local records of legal court records, 58 judges are active in Iceland and the service of a judge's office is available in 11 languages. In 1st. 10th par. Treated Privately, No. 91/1991, and 1 mg. Section 12. Laws on Prosecution, No. 88/2008, says the Convention is Icelandic. To protect the importance of Icelandic language as an official language in Iceland, it is essential that the language they know best can be expressed in the language they know best. Although a law has the right to judge a girl, the attempt is that a judge's service may be difficult to access in a number of languages, and if there is a need to interpret a language that no functioning judge is available in order to search for service abroad. The Law on Dooms and Documents, No. 148/2000, it is required to obtain a validation as a judgment formula that the relevant is also valid as a document-distinguishing scr. 2 mg. Section 4. The law of the law, and have a legalization to translate documents of Icelandic into foreign languages and from that in English. The individual must also pass a specific test in order to become a judge. These rich requirements have led only four to legalization as judges since the turn of the century and none since 2012. Thus, almost none of the newborn is involved. If the same trend continues, there will be an even greater shortage of judges, and the ministry needs to be extended abroad. It is necessary to ensure the availability of people living in this country who do not speak the Icelandic legal system. A vital part of a person's being able to communicate and receive information in a language he understands. There is also the need for the increase in judgment interpretations to protect the Icelandic language as a matter of Congress, and it is also necessary to make sure that the local judges can interpret as much language as possible. Although the ability to interpret and document translators is similar, it is not perfectly comparable. A good interpreter does not necessarily have to be good in the translation of a written language, and a good document translator is not necessarily a good interpreter. Tulas need a comprehensive knowledge of the exchange of information in speech and body language. Then judges need to understand the legal issues involved in each case in order to impart accurate information. Iceland's university has offered a practical study of translations as a supplementary supplement, as well as a master student in the arts and translations. The knowledge of graduates of this school at Iceland's University, or similar studies from other schools, could be much more effective when it comes to judging than can be expected that the rich requirements of today's current law, could be reduced to those interested in gaining legal rights. At that time, society girls have cared for interpretations in various European courts and can be considered to be experienced from there. Association girls in general have an extensive knowledge of the culture that is the basis for the language they are dealing with. The possibility of higher education and training may be considered to help interpret within the legal system. At the end of the discussion, I expect the case to go to the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u73	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct any change in health care law. You could say it's an old friend's trip. This case has come here several times, first of all, in my own way, ten years or something like that, in the 139th legislature. The bill in its simplest form goes out to make sure that those living in nursing homes are able to decide if they will be alone. I say a choice because, in fact, there may be occasional occurrences where people just don't want to be alone and then it's fine that they're in the situation, but basically it's in this way. Today, you can say, we are expected to offer to people whom we are going to permanently live in a nursing home that allows them to live independently. As I mentioned earlier, the matter has been presented several times before, last in the same form at 149th legislature. It should be noted that in Iceland, the number of refugees in recent years, at the expense of nursing, has been reduced. Rather, the number of nurses has increased. For example, now this month, a new nursing home at Plain Road will be opened by just one hundred compartments, more than 99 compartments, if I recall correctly. The situation is that little by little people have been waking up to realize that it might now be more reasonable to have a multiplicity in that service, or we can call it save options for older people than just to offer a permanent stay. Thus, to form the current health minister, a significant increase has been made in the number of daily care provisions for older people. Not in Icelandic statistics, of course, but the latest figures that are relatively accessible indicate that there are probably over 80% of nurses in private areas, and that number is rising. Today, there are no homes built that are not isolated, although in many places, as I had previously thought, can be offered to farms in exceptional circumstances. On the other hand, I have to say, in most cases in an apartment without asking for it, live as often as often as often as with some problems, people who live in the same nursing home and share with them. Happily, the situation in these matters has improved. As I mentioned earlier, there are now over 80 percent of the houses. True, they are of very different sizes and sizes, from being less than 10 m2 and up to a peak of 3,500,40 m2. However, there are also very small towns in some places, and if you use a standard inch, you can calculate that the private space of individuals on the smallest doubles can be considered to be in the range of five, six, seven square feet, which is very small. That's why it's important, I think, and it actually goes on, that we just have a plan on how we're correcting it, how we do the job of offering these human rights to everyone. An estimated 7 billion are to be built for the needed space. If a person looks to the amount of money he sees every year for the elderly, he should have sufficient space to ensure this strategy in the five years that the bill covers. As I mentioned at the outset, it is not new to me that men have been considering this and that it's a pleasure to say that a social minister, Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, has passed ideas on this a number of years ago and in her fine footsteps many have followed. This has often been mentioned in conferences, and in the media people have often seen laws about the injustice, if you can call it, as if people are involved. But as I also mentioned before, it is important to have a chance of some sort of home when people want to, and may be able to, in the context that I am also a 1st transporter to fix a couple living together and living in nursing homes. This is also important, for like a dog. Councilmen know it that way, at least In some cases, it may be said that separation is a pressure when the weaker spouse has to move to a nursing home. This can often be very difficult for people. I'm not saying that it should usually be that a person should move with his mate to a nursing home. As a community, we should take into account that this can be difficult for people, so this possibility needs to exist. The evaluation process by living in nursing and living homes has changed and has been developing from the changing of the global assessment system at 2007 to2008. With the change then being made, court lists and what has happened has taken place in the waiting period, it is firm, although it is not yet as we would like to have it, i.e. that, within two to three months, people may be able to go to a nursing facility. So there is no work to be done, but we're still on the right track, especially if we take a good deal of action in home service, as we've talked about before in the conference, and then the pressure in nursing and living space may be reduced, and thereby the project should become easier and resolve to some extent by itself. But I don't think there's any trace of any kind of injection or intervention on the part of the public person. I mentioned the previous Dammit Fund of the Elderly in this case. This discussion cannot be divorced, it seems to me, except to mention the takeover of the community on the affairs of older people, who in the reign of the heitinn son of Hannesson, had come to some place, including the Lord's Evening Meal. Because their rural communities envisioned significant investment costs that may result from their taking the group of lawsuits without solving it with farms. Even that. has done something, and certainly helped to make the local communities, let's say, hesitating in his pursuit after taking the party over. Although some rural communities continue to be very interested in this and, as a matter of fact, in this regard. Councilmen know are rural communities, who have taken these steps to a greater extent, and it is sufficient to include such rural areas as Akureyri and the Hornfjords. It's probably not Cape of Hornfjord, it's probably called the Country Society Dolphin or something like that, it's always been called the Cape, but we don't necessarily allow it to disturb us. But, in other words, a respectable president of the bill, with the tourists who are with me why. Council members of Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, The Gunánsson of S. Brjánsson, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Mnfjörður Gunnarsson and Sæland Gjöndand, suggest that this legalization take place in five years, following the approval of the bill, be assured that the residents of the Icelandic nursing and nursing homes who want to have a home of permanent residences will be set aside. V.E.G. President. I suggest that the case be referred to. The welfare committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-02-20-61.u74	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the laws of Iceland's national flag and national shielding, No. 34/144, with subsequent changes. The movers are also at large here. Councilmen Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Bergþór Ólason, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Sigurður Páll Jónsson, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, and Karl Gauti Einar Einar Hjaltason. In 1st. The bill says: ▪ At 7th. There's a new sentence that'll be 1. mgr., as follows: The flying flag will be drawn on poles every day of the year at the General Assembly Hall, the Board of Directors and the National Supreme Court of Iceland. 8 o'clock in the morning and stay with her until the day. 21 at night. The flag of Iceland's President shall be dragged to the pole of his office and his office in Reykjavík at the same time and remain as long as it is. This flag shall shine in the winter. Two. The bill says: ▪ This law goes into effect on June 17, 2020. The bill was first transferred to the 148th legislature and the 149th legislature, where the case was referred to the Board of Directors and Commission, who sent the case. The comments on the subject were positive. A review was received from Iceland's Sports and Olympics, and it says, by permission of Presidents: Iceland (ISI) is celebrating a forward bill. IT IS a fact that a law on the flag of the people of the Icelanders will be cleared, yet it does want to make sure that respect for the flag is not restricted, either in word or in deed. In addition, there was a review from the Iceland Office. It says, by permission of the president: The above bill has been given to the National Institute on History and wants to present the following: Increasing the use of national flags strengthens the image of the land and is designed to promote national consciousness. Thus, an Iceland lab considers the subject of the bill to be positive and encourages a positive payment. These were the reviews received at the time of the bill to the Commission and Observation Committee at 149 C.E. The bill is suggested to fly every day of the year from the end of the year. 8 o'clock in the morning. 21 evening at the constructions of the three arms of the government, as well as the construction of the office of the President of Iceland, i.e. I'm at the President's President's President's and Office on Sun Island Avenue. In addition, the flag is suggested to be lit up in the wintertime. Mr. President. The country's interest in the history of the Icelandic flag has increased somewhat in the last year, depending on the number of queries that have received the scientific web of the University of Iceland. The increase in interest is likely to be related to the sovereignty anniversary and is well pleased. By enunciation of the Union on December 1, 1918, Danir accepted Iceland's sovereignty. At noon that day, as previously said, the flag was pulled to the Board of Management's flag. Such a flag is also a pale flag, but it is a different word for a fork or a pitchfork. The flag that was drawn on December 1, 1918, was the same as we use today, a pagan blue with a white cross and a haired cross inside the white one. In fact, the blue was lighter than we are used to, and it did not get darker until 1974. The colors of the flag were discussed in a royal decision published on November 30, 1918. The same colors had also been identified in a royal order since July 19, 1915. The rendering was one of two so - called flag committees in 1913. On September 27, 1906, the Watchman, Matthías Þórðarson, had first shown nine years earlier at a meeting in the city of Reykjavík, September 27, 1906. An article in the October 12, 1906, issue of Awake! It describes the flag of Matthias's Matthías and explains the meaning of the colors. By permission of the President: In his meeting, Matthías Þórðarson showed a beautiful flag he had drawn up. It was a white cross in blue fur with a red cross in its center and was to represent a mountain blue, ice, and fire. It was the best thing for humans to do with these flags and to think that we are very likely to get along with each other in choosing it. - This information can be found on the board of directors and the science web of the University of Iceland. If we compare ourselves with many other nations, we have had rather rigid rules regarding the era of flags and the use of the flag in general. According to the European Union Boy Scouts, respect for the flag has grown and the population has begun to use it considerably more than it was. Yet, Icelanders use little of the flag, almost exclusively on days of only 12 a year, and at soccer games. The Boy Scouts have encouraged the use of the Icelandic flag. The Boy Scouts, in effect, are special guards of the flag, and thanks to that fact. It is the Boy Scout's assessment that the flag's position was growing stronger and positive. Our flag is beautiful and has no negative connections. In this context, it would be ideal for the Boy Scouts to teach the people about the use of the flag, how to draw it, etc. The State could strengthen the Boy Scouts to do that. True, there are written instructions on how to use the flag, but it is too common for my judgment to be handled properly, such as. When you pull it half a pole. In the context of this matter, consider what rules and traditions apply in our neighboring countries when it comes to the use of government buildings. In general, during the time of the flag, the number of flags has been since the year 2000. 8 o'clock in the morning. Twenty-one and there's a time limit in the bill. The king's palace in Sweden is flaunted every day and at the Assembly Hall. The flags are taken down at sunset, though not later than the clock. 21 as suggested in this bill. In Norway, however, the flag is dragged down at sunset all day long at the Great Assembly Hall and only after the start of the day. 21st In other words, this bill is a little in the spirit of the rules and traditions that apply to our neighbors, which we would like to compare with. Mr. President. Our independent campaign in Iceland also carried a battle for the Icelandic flag. Thus, it is a symbol of our independence and sovereignty. It is appropriate that we make our flag more visible to the buildings of the three arms of the government, as well as to the construction of the President of Iceland. By flaunting the whole day of the year at the General Assembly Hall, at the National Council Building, to build Iceland's Supreme Court, as well as to the construction of the President of Iceland, we'll increase the flag and show it more respect, the same respect that we show our country, nature, and culture. At this point, Mr. President, I will proceed and direct the case to what it says. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee.
