ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u1	The president considers an agreement that may last longer, but the Congress dictates, if necessary, which is likely to be put to the test.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u2	There have been letters requesting every time to provide written answers to queries: From a foreign and development secretary to a request for a file. 345 of the U.S. National Security Agency, Andrés Ingi Jónsson; from Environment and Resource Minister for a requested application. 328, on export to waste, from Karl Gauti Hjaltason.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u3	To answer, the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs, Transport and Regional Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, and Foreign and Development Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u4	Mr. President. After three years of independence party government, left green, and forwarding groups, prime minister introduces new climate goals. Instead of reducing emissions by 40%, which has had little ambitions, it is now aimed at a reduction of 55%. Interestingly, this is presented in the Morning Press this morning after the government has made its last budget, which is being discussed at the council today. It's not that far from the Union target. In the responsible route and in our conference of a green-programming revolution, now at the council, we expect 60% of contractions and allow specific measures to take on how to deal with it. What I now have to say is that it was clear when we were working our business that this requires money. The estimate is that the cost of the operation would be about 20 billion. As early as the next year, though, some things certainly return in part. At the beginning of the second round. The budget today, however, is that new plan. Prime Ministers are unfashionable, only an increase of 0.1% in environmental production, we know it, and surely these new financial goals are not expected. So I simply ask, isn't the government a misapprehensive if it's the highest level? The minister of finance and the head of the Independence Party are not prepared to finance the highest goals. Prime Minister and Chairman of the Left Green in Sheep? I'll take it from here, tops. Secretary of the budget, that the management parties merely vote with the UN's fiscal proposals for further contributions to climate, so that there is any real possibility that we can make this work better? Or is this merely a run-in from the Ministry of Presidency?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u5	A respectable president. I believe this government has shown very clearly its will in this case. If we compare the financial program here for the 2017 Parliament, which was adopted by the current government, and consider what has changed in the environment with the composition of the existing government, we will see the difference very clearly. Looking forward to the year 2022, an earlier financial program expected us to put 16 billion into the environment in 2022. The target was immediately changed, including 20 billion, to date. to improve the effectiveness of climate. In time, the amount of money has been increasing in 2022. It is after a period of over a year that takes place in 2022. Today, there is a financial program available for the council, so in 2022 it is up to 24.5 billion - 24.5 billion. So we're talking about about about a 50% increase, and more, in this lawsuit group, 8.5 billion a year. That's the rest of the environment. This government updated its plans for the summer and specifically introduced them. The target is now being set even higher by 2030 on climate goals, and I would have thought that people would welcome it. Of course, we will do this every year, measuring the results each year, exactly how we will reach our destination. One of the things we are doing is making it more possible for the private sector to come with us to this work by means of a special element of attraction and tax incentive for the private sector for investment in green solutions. It's a special matter for Congress here. [[The president calls.]] So it's not all in a matter of Congress, it's a number of conferences and financing elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u6	Mr. President. This 40% emissions must naturally be covered by the financial and financial programs, and it still will explain how to finance that addition, though I certainly support it. True, there has been a significant increase of 30 billion. increase, environmentally, half of which flow to surfaces. It's been 80 million. K. there is an increase in the budget debate here, but because of this, large amounts go to the mink, so there's no sound and picture here. V.E.G. The secretary of finance simply has to answer me, " How will he finance it? ' Is he prescribing this to the next government, or is this evidence of a Supreme Court? The prime minister has begun preparing to look for a new board of governance patterns so that he can work with groups that truly support her climate goals? V.E.G. The secretary of finance simply needs to explain how he intends to bring money into these operations next year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u7	A respectable president. I have to admit, I haven't read the Conspiracy's suggestions on this matter, but if I've just heard it. Then a senator said it cost 30 billion. I don't know. I think it just makes no sense, if I'm right about it, that the proposals cost 30 billion. That was what was presented in a talk earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u8	Twenty billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u9	That's 20 billion dollars, I'm sorry. We feel that the results of this new declaration can be achieved by giving a billion particularly on those projects. I'm not entirely convinced that in over 1,000 billion budgets, it has to add 1 billion to this suit to achieve its success. What we should do is see if we can prioritize more than 1,000 billion so that the average billion each year over ten years will go to these projects. There are many ways to reach that goal, as I said before, including coming with me to the private sector, and that bill is coming to the council right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u10	A respectable president. A group of restoration projects have provided numerous suggestions, bills, and inquiries over the years with the aim of solving problems within the health system, ensuring freedom of choice, and putting the focus on our people, our well - being, not our system, nor our political claims, simply to provide services regardless of whether it is the State or its independent healthcare providers who provide it. The position of the left greener, premeditated with the Minister of Health, is well established. They don't want the personal enterprise to be new, and they want to be more supportive of the public system. All right. There, health - care ministers have stood at the big words and have severely confined themselves to independent health care professionals and private nursing homes. Since then, the Independence Party has signed and can be said to be an accessory in the government's fashion of independent health care professionals. We know that a part of the requested healthcare system must be helped by an independent working person. The waiting lists get up, and the problem just gets bigger and bigger. This has also been repeated by surgeons. So I want to ask the highest. Secretary of finance: Where is the Independence Party now? Does he support that the personal contribution now is better available within the medical system to ensure freedom of choice to ensure service? Or is the Independence Party going to be a free break in these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u11	A respectable president. I find these attempts to define the independence party's policy in one case after another to be kind of honest. We have decades of wanting to activate the benefits of the personal contribution to health care. We have shown this by our actions, including our actions. the last time we were at the Department of Health. Then we made sure that the health care of the capital area was reimbursed, I allow myself to say, with money following patients. Thus, many dams based on previous registrations became available at a designated health care center, which is now being competitive. Hv. A senator here discussed health minister's policy. I'm going to come to protect the health minister only in terms of the fact that the minister has emphasized that we need to prioritise our resources in order to solve the problem in the hospital that affects people who are no longer at home and who have been cured of their medical problems. The health minister is correct, and there are solutions to this. For one thing, we are now putting ourselves in 2nd. financing money behind 100 new nursing rooms so that we limit the performance of the whole health system because it's a little dangerous to set it all up into some silicone and not to look at the interconnection of the individual components of the medical system. But I don't quite understand where people get the ideas that the Independence Party has reduced their emphasis on the benefits of the personal enterprise of the health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u12	A respectable president. The great escape has begun. I have not heard anything about the government's policy, and including the Independence Party, in the past three years. It's amazing at the highest. The secretary of finance should not recognize that there has been a direct avoidance to independent health professionals. The waiting-list problem will not be solved by piling people into the public system. It is not big enough and simply cannot handle the task. I call for governments to open their eyes to reality because their political responsibility is with them. There should be no news for the highest level. Secretary of finance that he's a member of the government. We have a waiting list for mental health issues all over the country, with a waiting list for replacement and hip surgery, a waiting list for a separate service, a waiting list for a waiting list. It's under the roof. Is this an acceptable situation for financial ministers? I know it's hard for him to answer that. Could it be that the others, and I wondered, are no longer in the Ministry of Health, but are they the same in the Ministry of finance? I don't know if I have to spell it out to the highest level. Secretary of finance, but health and welfare matters are also right. And it's economically practical to do better, much better here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u13	A respectable president. I think this presentation is one vulture where it's all mixed up. Here are some phrases that you do not understand to include a question in this interview period. [[The point is: Is it fragile?]] This is not a delicate matter because we have a story to tell and it begins in the opening years of this government. We've been raising contributions to independent classes. I can name a physical therapist in particular, an independent class, and the transition that has become in access to that service in the long term of that government. Should we take dentistry as another example and cut down on dental services for an older citizen? We have an independent health class with which we have been funding our ministry better. I mentioned earlier that we are adding 100 new nurses to next year's budget to clear up dams in the health system. [[The president calls.]] All of this is a clear example of how we are solving problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u14	A respectable president. We'll take out the four or five, I don't know what, I guess he'll be coming up for next week. That's why I really want to point it to the highest level. Secretary of finance whether it was something on his table and the government to meet the small number of individuals, poor senior citizens, at the highest level. The minister of finance has often listed here and said that this is not the case with so many people. At the same time, however, we see a natural double in measurable poverty following this terrible pandemic. The good news is this, and congratulations on it, topmost. Government and Minister, 50 grand. will be paid for Christmas, single payment for disability. There is no need to wait for it, for that funding was already there and the lawgiver, the capital had already given green light to it. But now I ask the highest. Financial Minister: May we expect the next budget to be applied to the few older citizens who are living in the midst of deep poverty? We've got a striped social security check. Getting over 400,000 bucks. paid. May we expect the ultimate. The government and the secretary of finance are taking these people in their arms too, and they don't stand out against them before Christmas?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u15	A respectable president. I ask myself, " What do I mean when it comes to discrimination, discrimination before Christmas? ' We have a variety of support systems here. One of the systems that we know well and regularly discuss in a Senate hall is what is tailored to the needs of disability. Another system is what is tailored to the needs of a pensioner. These two systems do not follow exactly the same laws, since they are for very different groups. If we were to take the time to examine the development of the commercial resources provided by the group in particular at sea, i.e. In recent years, senile patients, we would notice that the financial resources of all earnable pensioners have grown dramatically. In fact, from 1991 onward, as in the past five to six years, there can be no such a powerful period of growth in buying. It's very easy to develop if you go into the site of the income story.is, a wonderful web to get full transparency of these objects. That's why we're proud. We're gonna fire it even. to the changes made at the General Assembly in 2016. However, there are other reasons why this group is also receiving increased pensions year after year, and they have benefited from the general, concerted increase in pay in this country during the past few years that will be added each year. The synergistic factors of this group have resulted in the favour of all the revenues of this group, i.e. A year ago, a pensioner, has been getting better, and still doing so next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u16	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for no answer. I had never imagined that there could be another single form of voice here and that one inquiry could be taken out of context. It was simple, I'm talking about the lowest level of income, the highest. Secretary of finance. I'm not talking about the older citizens who are doing good. I'm talking about the very few as the highest. For example, the secretary of finance has said that being so few, as I have been able to read, it should not be a problem to meet them. I'm not talking about people who have enough to bite and burn. V.E.G. Secretary of finance thinks he doesn't know what discrimination is. Speaking of two systems, I'm talking about two different groups that are still taking advantage of the same social security system, except that the elderly have lower access to the social security system because they lose so-called age-based energy exchange as they fall into becoming older citizens. I believe it's discrimination. V.E.G. The secretary of finance can see it differently. I'm gonna ask you again: Is that normal, and I'm going to go to the top? Secretary of finance putting your arms around that group? He doesn't understand what I'm saying, do I sound that vague?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u17	A respectable president. We have made special improvements for this group relatively recently through a change introduced to the council by the Department of Social Affairs. As a result, the report as a panel of experts and stakeholders showed that there were individuals in a more sensitive position in this group, especially singles, people with very low or no pension incomes, and that we could have special resources to support that group. [[Up front.]] We did this by altering our laws, but we have not further declared it to other special measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u18	Mr. President. The sentence of the district Court of Reykjavík, December 4th of the past, on the unregistered payment of the Substitute Fund, has attracted much attention. Thousands of people are now living in a serious trial period after the appeal to the National Court. The highest. A minister confirms that the appealer will seek urgent treatment to shorten the time of this trial? Those who have been locked up in hell's interest borrowed from an apartment loan fund by the super-high payment fee, e.g. 16% of the loan's amount of money on which the court's rights were concerned will remain until a complete performance in the courts is obtained unless the government decides to take other measures. It seems well thought - out and logical, a multi-organized judgment with two special - born judges, thus having a different significance than the judgment of one regional judge in a 2014 case. Is it possible for a minister to agree that an impending damage-related damage caused by claustrophoboles in the financial loans of an apartment loan if a better rate offered on the market would allow us to consider a way of reconciliation, even though all illegal payments would be paid unsurpassedly? Mr. President. Did the National Court of District Court, the plans of a minister, confirm that they will be met by those who chose to pay a higher interest to escape payment, taking into account the false premise that payment was legitimate? For instance, the highest. Minister, by paying them back the interest difference so that they will be equal with others in terms of an order of 90?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u19	A respectable president. First, I'm saying that this arrangement, this system that was built there, has completely failed. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] They have failed those who were going to rely on it because they felt that they were entering an institution's arms with their housing case that offered the best possible option within a country over the loan time. No wonder we built the system so that government funds were in their own responsibilities for the work that provided the funds for the publishing of bond bonds the best potential interest the loan agencies could secure. And when only loans were given on the first mortgage in real estate, the financial expenses that the Agency could secure and would share with their clients could not be reached. But because of the built - in defects of this system, it eventually collapsed to the ground, with disastrous consequences for state funds. In fact, there was something else, as we have read about in a special report on this subject, including the following: A loan to a roommate and a government fund has made at least a month. About 50 billion so far. And then we're holding at the old loan collection, I guess it can't calculate the angle of the old loan collection to 200 billion today after growing. What we're going to do in this case is we're going to try to go as quickly as possible through the judiciary system, and we're going to test the law to request live treatment for the Supreme Court, passed by the National Court, in order that the justice period will be as strong as anyone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u20	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer and new information presented here. I have a few more questions for the highest degree. Minister. What deadlines will the Minister's judgment on the head, on interest, and on payment pay be made to confirm the judgment of the province? Let me point out in this regard that the deadlines of the law take to the level of legitimate charges, not illegally required. Can the Minister confirm that with the Ministry's declaration it is in fact recognized that any lenders of the fund can seek a requisition within at least Four years from December 4, 2020, regardless of when they paid off the loan? Then I'd like to look for the highest position. A minister to ensure that instead of a natural refinance and risk management system, the fund chose to question its financial problems on the back of creditors with the requirement that they pay a portion of interest from paid loans decades in advance, as shown in the court. It's the highest. Ministers are satisfied with this procedure in the fund? Actually, it doesn't sound like it. Finally, I reiterate my question: How would a minister plan to meet the thousands of people who are stuck with financial losses after dealings with an apartment loan that the federal court has judged illegal? [[The president calls.]] Does a minister see no other way than to wait and hope that the Supreme Court will eventually cut the government out of the trap? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u21	A respectable president. I would especially like to say again that I am fully aware that there are thousands of homes, thousands of families, who have enormous interest here, and that it is important for us to get a conclusion as soon as possible. Therefore, we will put the possibility of getting the Supreme Court to address the matter directly. We'll see if it's going to work. There are a number of legal issues I don't trust to talk about, and courts will eventually have to deal with. But I have to say about the other loans, i.e. The loans that did not pay and had slightly higher interest, that I thought it would be a very long way if those who chose that way were to enjoy the loans that were not supposed to have money, or at least By payment, because all the camp loan fund was trying to do was keep skimming its terms to its customers and having the backing that was either explanatory or not available for the fund. It would be even more difficult for the state's funds to share the loans on unrepencable loans with those who wish to have money every time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u22	President. Three simple questions for the State Minister. This year's financial and financial structure has brought about a number of interesting developments, and many of these have been paid. At first, it was because of the sliding Lands Hospital of a University Hospital. That's what I've asked the highest. A minister before saying that the Ministry calculated pay raise according to medical collective agreements, but the pay book of the Land Hospital at a local hospital shows an increase beyond that calculations. You're standing there asking, "Wait, what's the right thing, the calculations, the real thing paid in the end?" The next question is also salary, and it's very simple: Why don't social security get biographies; pensions, pensions, elderly and unemployed? Why is there no financial debt in pay contracts? Last thing I've asked the Ministry several times about meeting with a financial committee: In the past year, the raise of senators and the minister was suspended for years. I've been asking how much money ministers and senators pay them for the years. First the Ministry replied, "We don't have it now. " We'll answer it after the meeting. So the weekend, just before the discussion was over, and no answer. The ministry's representatives came to our meeting, but they also said that they did not have the answers and were going to answer right after the meeting. Now it's Thursday and no answers have come yet. Why doesn't the Ministry answer questions?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u23	A respectable president. First with regard to the pay and the stock market - this is a matter of special interest to the Land Hospital - we expect to be able to provide the budget for all the concerned raises that are financed, insured to all citizens in the budget. Then individual states make special contracts, each by itself. In some institutions, regardless of collective agreements or their conclusions, some may feel that there is a pay grade, that there is a reason for holding some health care professionals, etc. In this development, the institutions themselves must bear responsibility. They can't ask for suggestions from the Ministry of finance to make up specifically because everyone would probably need to be walked, right? For the social security and the question why is it not exactly the same social security criteria as for raises of biographies, I expect this to indicate that in the biographies agreements there was a special increase in the lowest salary. In social security, we are particularly supportive of those with limited contributions. The primary answer to this question lies in the fact that the social security system is a reform system. It's not the government's pay system. Daughters are not legally paid. The indicative increase from year to year is generally a standardised increase in labour market elevations of 69 p.m. The law that we talk about so many times and frequently here. In order to change this, these improvements should be adjusted to the beat of the country's lowest remunerations. We're just following the law on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u24	A respectable president. The biographies were unique agreements, as the government has often spoken of itself. It therefore takes a special decision not to apply them in reevaluation of their value for the next year's budget, but only by the law. A special decision was made to raise the lowest wage for a certain dollar, and it is a special decision not to perform it as a parallel when considering the general pay raise. That's interesting. But I wanted to reiterate my last question about the salary of Congress and Ministers for the New Year's Day: how much is it raised, and why doesn't the Ministry answer the question of a legal committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u25	A respectable president. It is written in law how to make a difference for members of Congress at this time of the year. The interview is implemented there, and it is determined by law, but we have to pick it up from the Habitat. I don't understand why it can't be produced. I don't know how to tell you why it's been delayed to answer that. In fact, I would have thought that because it was an increase to be carried out in some summers, the reference number was actually before 2019, and it had more or less in this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u26	Then it's 2nd. ... abundant. A meeting is held in such a way that the speakers and spokesmen receive a double talk period in the first pass, and there will be a right to counter-releasing space, i.e. It must be ensured that representatives of all government groups can counter the history of more of the legal committee. They'll be answering two minutes in the first round and one minute in the second round. Other than this, the typical talk period is the 2nd. about the primes and the standard counterclockwise.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u27	V.E.G. President. Here I recommend a body of committees from a greater portion of the budget of a bill to be financed by 2021. 14th degree. track No. Regarding public finances, 123/2015 says that a minister should submit a bill for the next calendar year at the first meeting of the Fall Summit, which was set on October 1. The budget bill consults sources for spending by topic areas and seminars and for any kind of commitment to the A-part State Fund. The Commission has discussed the bill and received a detailed presentation on it from representatives of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, as well as representatives of all other recruitments, which came to the Committee and outlined topic areas and language groups that they hear. In addition, a number of reporters came to the committee and are listed at the top of the committee's list. All committee meetings were telecommunications. If we set the year last year, 2019, when we provided budgets on November 27, we could say that this year was delayed. Most people are aware of this, and most are aware of it. Later we began, where it was unavoidable to reevaluate financial policies in accordance with government laws. As a result, the committee has already discussed financial programs and budgets at the same time. In addition to laying down a bill to extend a period of financial decommissionment rule 7. a law on government finance for three more years where the law allows and the bill to legalize a state bill, then the fifth budget bill of the year is for a discussion on the Committee. Of course, there has been a major challenge, both in councils and during the councils, in preparing, in the process of working, and in caring for countercontractive measures. I wanted to put this together a little, a respectable president, and at the same time thank you. A budget for patient endurance and tolerance for making Saturday meetings I believe this year's work was very special, as is the case with a number of other sources who are living in this amazing period of time. The financial work has been made up of the conditions we face because of the pandemic. This is reflected in the changes we make between discussions. They are unusually large, both in numbers and in large sums of money. In certain documents, the greater part makes adjustments in the curve 1, which is found on page 12. 20 on the bill, i.e. The bill's schedule. The Internet change there is 162 million. K. decreased. This figure shows that these changes are negligible in all contexts, especially in terms of the changes laid down here on expenses. In spite of a reduction of the insurance fee by 4 billion k, which is a temporary reduction of the price and is among the measures to build up stability due to biographies, income taxes by individuals are to be increased while income taxes are legal to decline. So we're looking at some intervening changes. Special administrative taxes decrease and capital gains, increase of income taxes, and a total of tax revenues and insurance costs are expected to drop by 3.2 billion dollars. At the contrary, other income of the state's budget is expected to increase by 3 billion, mainly because of rising fishing costs and fish farming, about 2.8 billion dollars, from 5 billion to 7.8 billion dollars. It is then estimated that the total income of the next year will be 765,618.2 billion. K. or 25% of GDP. Then the more part makes changes to dissociate 2, i.e. the financial resources given by language categories found in the bill on page 5 of this magazine. 26th A total of these suggestions is 55.728 billion. to increase pay or 33.6% of gross domestic product. Compared with changes in the pay frame between years of conversation, there are significant changes. In 2018, changes from bill to bill were 1.1 billion, 800 million 2019, with a reduction of 1.4 billion 2020. Now, a total of 55.728 billion dollars are the new budget. This is an amazing difference in change if we compare with those of the previous few years. Total expenditure will then, i.e. budgets, 1,030,860.6 million. K. or 33.6% of gross domestic product. Growth equations are negative about 55 billion or 1.8% of gross domestic product. The total recovery will be negative on less than 320 billion. There is room within the uncertainty curve allowed by financial policy. This yields about 10.4% of gross domestic product. Table on page 24. 2 members of a committee study are then able to understand these numbers more fully, and changes in Article 1 are presented. the bill in which expenses and income are broken according to an international economy report standard. In the largest part of this section, we deal with the Committee's work ethic from the International Council of Parliament to review financial policies for 2018-022. It is important to keep the time line in this, with the prescription of public financial laws. As a result of a pandemic crown virus, all the main leaders of the policy were smiling. Therefore, the General agreed to postpone the contributions of budgetary programmes for the year 20211⁄22025 and until the first meeting day of the regular General Assembly in the fall. Thus, the committee has discussed both issues at the same time. This is, of course, not entirely in line with the cycle cycle of public financial development policy development, but economic uncertainty prevented practical planning for the council and was therefore approved by the council in particular by the last June. But I would like to make it clear that financial advice has emphasized in its opinion on the review of policy that it is important to return to what we call a policy cycle. The policy was based on the potential for a growth of 9% of GDP in 2021 and the rest of the rural communities by 1%, as well as an approved uncertainty gap of 3% of GDP. The unsuspecting bed gives them about 90 billion bucks. as a possible variation from the core plan of public funds. The proposals for increasing budgets made on changing proposals in terms of these findings show that the hook will become larger and intervening. half of the uncertainty range. In addition to accounts of the bill itself, the committee received a series of talks and requests that included requests for support, outright requests, or additional contributions. The committee followed the procedure by forwarding such requests to the minister of the seminary. This is in accordance with the responsibility of a minister, which is most indicated in paragraphs 20 and 21. law on public financial matters, on the topic areas and on the language categories under which he is hearing. Then, more than previously, the committee has called for explanations and logical support for the individual issues presented in the reviews and in meeting with sources of information. A date has been sent to write and request notes, and this has been the same as before. The committee sent a questionnaire to all recruitment programs, which called for further information, data, and logical support. A common question to all advisers turned to how goals and standards are used to set the priorities of the Ministry. It can be read in harmony with chapter 20. it's a government law. These questions turned to how the aims and standards are used to set priorities for the Ministry, to dissociate the budgetary requirement, to develop a project on recycling costs, to the number of jobs related to government investment initiatives, and to the linking of the prosperity objectives to the policy of climate change. Surgeons suggest that during recent years there has been considerable progress in linking goals, achievements, and financial resources. In order to have a clearer view of the development of budgets and budget development and to have a measure of success, it is constantly being developed to improve the objectives and expenses. The project on reevaluation of budgets is in shape, but the methodology is reevaluated to a systematic analysis of funds with the aim of making it possible to set priorities for limited funds, while at the same time working in an orderly management and improved service. This approach is in line with the importance of international institutions. The majority feel that a reassessment should be considered not to cover the whole area and should be permanently discontinued by general requirements. Instead, a balanced hand, according to a measure, will be used to evaluate the spending of causes and thus achieve practical management. What could result from a business intervention focused on individual institutions, and the aims of such management would come from the institutions themselves in agreement with the Minister of the House. This methodology is discussed in the financial program and in the setting of prosperity. I assume, a respected president, that in a subsequent financial discussion, these factors will be discussed further. The majority of the data shows that it is important that the link between the budget and the extent of the budget should be clearer, which in other words means that the variables are worthy and the volume of the control. In this regard, we need to strengthen the information systems and improve management information so that key information is available behind the numbers and that goals and standards require it. Along with this methodology, there is a lot of work to be done on improving our systems, as we do in so many other things. A global policy pattern and goals, as we read in this cycle of policy development, in which the government pursues its policies and follow-up policies, on which it builds budgets, are always clear and well discussed in the bill's report. In fact, a respected president of the United States, in fact, appeared there. The improvements that have resulted from the firm laws on public financial matters. At the beginning of the season, the state's budget was used to continue reducing his debt, as well as allowing for an increased amount of money in the structure of health and welfare, education, and transportation. This was followed by ambitious environmental and climate targets, and contributions were made to land collective agreements by reviewing taxes and reducing taxes. In this way, during the past few years, economic growth has been used to strengthen services and to promote main systems and donations, thus increasing to most topics throughout the ideal period. I'd like to draw the attention of those who have mentioned a greater portion under the control of a table that compares the spending process in all the topic areas during the term, from 20171⁄2021, i.e. including the funds we are considering. This is quite interesting because it is a real - life growth in almost all 35 languages and that is a significant one. By making up for the inner debt, which we often call the name which we have gathered for a loss. The numbers certainly reflect. All the main presidents of financial policy failed in the spring months as we know each other. In a new direction, overemphasis is put on facing the declines, the suddenest strokes, and the deep depressions that followed. The 2021 financial bill is made up of government responses to the effects of the crisis and the present and temporary challenges. The objective of the government is to put Kingdom interests ahead of the challenges that the nation faces. The effects are evident on both the income and the remuneration sides. The aims of the State Policy as reflected in a budget bill for 2021 are three ways. First, take strong counter measures to offset the economic impacts of disease prevention. You can say that when we look at the changes to 55 billion that are presented between discussions, they are mostly Covid-related actions. Second, allowing the so - called automatic fluctuation equations to work fully to counterbalance the economic system. It happens spontaneously with increased expenditures, as a result of unemployment and in the form of less tax pay. Third, public service has not been reduced despite the loss of government funds. On the contrary, support has increased to counterweight. All these government actions, a respected president, aim to this, and may be referred to as a guide in these temporary crisis situations to minimise the impact of the epidemic on the economy of enterprises and households. This is made clear in the bill itself when we compare the expenses involved with the budget of the past year. There we watch an increase of 118 billion, or 1,15%. This increase has been in the period of law on government finance, if we consider that period - a different period of poorly controlled except by high adaptation work and countability, and we have adopted the standards of IPSAS and GFS - for 2018, 2018, and 2020. So we're doubleing that money and 15% more. It is very clear what the promises are; to get us out of this situation. We're totally looking at the IPSAS database, i.e. The management foundation we know from traditional accounting is the sum as we read it in the budget bill, not at 1 Corinthians 15: 58. ..................................................... Here we are comparing the period of unusually large budget gains between years of age, as shown by the table, which I referred to earlier. There is an exceptional increase in expenses during this period in most grammatical fields. So the numbers are telling us we're in a lot of crisis and we're responding in a very powerful way. It's hard to argue with that. This can be clearly seen when we consider the cost development in the table of which the greater portion presents in its opinion. The majority of these changes occur in committee bodies, i.e. how expenses change depending on what they say. It would be simple to say that spending increases inevitably because of wages, prices, gangs, and economics, and systematic factors that amount to some 40 billion. Now I'm looking at this 124 billion and the change from year to year, ranging from 50 to 60 billion to 124 billion. In addition, expenses are linked to government decisions already available and independent of Covid by 20 billion. Then we're looking at this traditional figure, between 50 and 60 billion, from the budget to the bill. These include building a new hospital, that is a decision already taken, the prolongation of birthworm, a new nursing home, additional funds in surfaces, the subsidies of aeroplanes in a country, a new ocean research ship, the equations of electrical energy, the success of children, and other factors I could mention. But more part of 180 billion changes in budgets are due to Covid, approx. 120 billion. Understandably, this budget is a pandemic, but it is important not to lose sight of where we are and where we are going with our money because we are looking at a temporary situation. Covid passes over and it is important that the cost is as temporary and at the counterweight of the epidemic as well as in order to get us started again. So the majority puts out the cost development in a table, as indicated earlier, framed expenses during the terms of the marketing period of 2017/2021. That tablet is on solid prices in 2021. This table can be found on page 22. 8 of the leading aluminium at the top of the section. At the beginning of the season, the policy was to greatly promote the welfare system, to add largely to investments, and to reevaluate the tax system as well as to provide ambitious environmental goals. In line with this, contributions to the vast majority of the sector's activities have steadily increased in rhythm as there is greater scope for spending growth. Thus it can be said that the growth of long economic growth has been determined to reduce debt, to strengthen public service, to provide social support, and to reduce taxes. We see this now, a respectable president, how important it was to emphasize the importance of reducing the debt of state funds, in spite of the expansive trend, we would not be in a position to counter the situation as strongly as we really do. The overall increase is high absolute value of 26.5%. We're talking about less than 200 billion, i.e. 20% of the total. These are framed expenses, I reiterate it. That means interest rates, pension bonds, reserves aren't in there. Of course, making these increases is the most important thing. This can be seen clearly. In health matters, we have added permanently to our system 25 billion, on transport and communication matters, 23 billion. Then there is disability and the affairs of disabled people 20 billion, 16 billion in family matters, 14 billion in older people's affairs, an 11 billion breakthrough in innovation and research and evolution. That's a 74% absolute increase. At that time, more than 10 billion will go permanently to health care outside hospitals. In terms of money, the largest increase is seen in major health and social sectors, which are already very high in budgets. Most of the 25 billion for hospital service, followed by 23 billion for transport and communication, 19.5 billion for the disability and language of disabled persons, 15.5 billion for family matters, 13.9 billion for the resources of the elderly and 10.2 billion for extramarital health services. This is an 11 billion - billion - scale ordeal on the subject of innovation and research. This is an interesting increase. The relative increase in transport is a 49% absolute increase. Environmental and climate concerns include 40.8% absolute increases. This is in either way the amount of money or the proportion of a huge increase. I think, if there's anything to criticize, that we've gone to the edge of an extra expenses in years. However, it must be said that there were many improvements. It is difficult at the same time to say that we had not had to work on the structure and maintenance of transportation or put more on the health - care system. Of course, look into the future, what it's all about, not following the line not to hold on to expenses that we don't walk on the wood and save too much debt, and we keep in mind that our government will always be sustainable. The economic foundation of the bill is based on the Economics of the Habitat. It appeared in October, and there is no new forecast until the new year. It accounts for 7.6% of the decline in gross domestic product during the year and for 3.9% in the next year. The main leaders of the bill are that there will be no need for severe disease prevention measures next year and that we will be able to control the epidemic and so far 900 thousand tourists. That's why all of this works. Clearly, the economic recession is fast and high, up to 300 billion production losses. I'm not sure we've ever seen such a sudden down and hopefully never again. New economic forecasts are not until the New Year. During the past few months since the bill was won, the optimism we allowed us to have at the end of the summer has only diminished. For example, other forecasts of Iceland's Federal Republic show that a recession will occur for this year 8.5%, which is worse than the bill's. Then it lowers the foundation, and when we start watching the front, it relaxes. The late bank also says that the improvement next year will be slower than 2.3%, but the Habitat says 3.9%, which is essential to the bill. I'm here to say, though, that there is reason for optimism in that the volume of resistance that is being submitted to changes and are much of these 55 billion are expected to move on and over. It is at the same time buying a vaccine for 1.5 billion dollars. It's a time sign and a shelf in the resistance. I've previously said in this speech that these budgets are very much of Covid-19. A financial assessment has been made directly affecting the survival of a Kingdom fund and gives the greater portion of it to a table on page 20. 10. It provides an overview of the actions under attack and is under attack. In this table, however, we do not refer to what we refer to as automatic fluctuations. These include a high unemployment rate of 30 billion. Direct measures are shown on both the income and the pay edge of the budget. The overall effect of the recession on the public and economy as a whole, the homes and businesses are so much greater than that. The financial affairs of a community were somewhat discussed in the matter of financial work. Of course, farms do not serve solely as basic services, but weigh them about that. One-third of the state funds. It is vital that they have the strength to face the down cycle so that, as a group, we can use public financial goals in the interests of public economy goals. To ensure this and contribute to the greater economy of the government, the regular cooperation site is written into Article 11. it's a government law. The development of budgetary programmes 20211⁄22025 made an agreement between the state and rural society, signed on both sides, and covered by the same subsidies. particularly on the unknown. Both sides agree to respond to the trend. I encourage audiences who cooperate with these issues to pay close attention and to keep this declaration to respond. This is an important, respectable president, and we must rely on this cooperation. Most important, it is possible for us to be vigorous in promoting public finances for the sake of our resistance. The general support of government funds for the economy will benefit the communities and their income as a result is reduced intensification. Indeed, the situation of rural society differs from that of the rural communities that have been estimated to be less eroding in tourism has been given special support from the state's funds. In connection with the agreement between state and rural society, which I referred to, sign the highest power. Secretary of finance and economics, tops. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. A declaration of transport and rural management, including reports that there will be additional contributions to the speech of disabled persons, a very important feature of the local community service, financial support to rural society, and special support to those who are less fortunate. I'm not going to recite all the details made in this statement, but these are the big ones. It also reviews the number of measures taken by governments and helps to benefit the communities. The most important part of this, I'd like to say, the government will continue to monitor the development of financial communities in good cooperation with them and ensure that, as wind and financial information are available, their communities will be able to perform the important closer service they are assigned to perform by law. It's been over two months since the highest. The Secretary of Economics and Economics gave a financial bill and ordered it. Of course, there is still considerable uncertainty about economic developments, and we wait for a new economic forecast from the Haust, of course, to consider together with other forecasts that arise, but the epidemic has been worse than expectations, and a pessimistic picture has been developed, which has called for a stronger response by the government. It holds the adjustments that we truly recommend. At the beginning of my speech, I reviewed that there are negligible changes in income management plans, but there are intermediate changes that are presented in a special package. The use of the Internet is 162 billion. On the back of the pay, however, there are very extensive variations, or 55.3 billion dollars. Of the over 55 billion, 45 billion are clean Covid-related actions. They exchange several topic areas and are given special terms in consideration of categories of causes of acidification, as well as any changes made to the majority of the Committee in the specific section at the end of the Committee. The 45 billion Covid-related actions play a dramatic role: the most extensive operation is 19.8 billion due to the repair of boxing. It is moving toward the 30th Job market and unemployment. It is a scholarship to operators who have suffered a loss of income because of the pandemic and who are being decomposed in a special bill on the dog. The Economic and Business Committee. Then, at the same level, 6 billion will be moved. due to the prolongation of part-time work and the pay of unemployment improvements, along with a decrease in employment rate. We were here to settle a case yesterday, a respectable president, including Regarding the part - time ministry, it was called in between 2 and 3. To what? The welfare committee, where the committee was encouraged to consider the changes made in the middle of the year in that case. I'd like to encourage the committee to examine it carefully. Part of it was to explore the possibility of extending the resources to partners who truly have employees on the payroll. Then 2 billion can be proposed. which cover 2.5% additional burden on basic unemployment insurance benefits. At the 20th high school level, and 21, college levels, 5.4 billion are covered. which is due to the study procedure as an opportunity and is intended to give jobseekers the opportunity to participate in studies at an advanced and university level, as well as in advanced education. Part of the effort is to face the growing number of students who will be affected by circumstances. So this is a very handsome contribution, 5.4 billion, to the schools to meet the increase in school schools and this wonderful educational tool. A more advanced college exchange will be presented in a college discussion. In the area of 34, a general reserve, it is suggested to provide 5 billion to meet unexpected expenses for Covid-19. I assume that there will be a great deal of health care. At the topic range 32, public health and welfare management, which contains a special emergency staff from a pathologist, it is proposed to provide funding for the purchase of a Covid-19 vaccine. There are a total of 5 billion of the over 45 billion involved in the Covid-related issues, and these include some socially linked resources, including increased allowances for child repairs, increased contributions due to legislation on additional support to the elderly, increased support for families and children, including children and children. to work at the off-limits of the state's analysis and counseling centres, additional donations for Preservation and Equal Opportunities, and then there's 300 billion. K. up-to-date contributions to the increase in NPA contracts. Of the 10 billion remaining, 2.6 billion are making additional donations for the rehabilitation of pensions, and 2.1 billion are increasing the financial resources of pensions because other incomes of albino pensioners are decreasing. As a result of an increase in nursing weight, 1.7 billion are being made up of some 300 million. It has a so-called RIG factor and needs to be calculated and different from nursing homes. It's very important to make up here because it wasn't on the bill. That leaves 3 billion bucks. which are a number of smaller proposals and spread in many language fields by species. I wouldn't last a while to cover them all up, but I was counting on my colleagues to the wind. A financial committee and more than a share in making it clear to the point and in itself to the point. It's a legal committee in their speeches. In other respects, I refer to the committee on page 24. The suggestions can be found. I'm going to make it clear to refer to these Senate documents as they happen. On the roof. 531 is a list of all the dues, divided in special indexes, three of them. It's a reassessment of the remuneration and prices providers. Then there is a decrease in budgets for travel costs, but the nature of the case, in this situation we live in, has not required the same amount of expenses as we calculated. Further, a reassessment of the health - care providers is being made. Well, that's in the middle of nowhere, isn't it? 532 specifically analyzing the changes in income that I went through and to cover. 533 is an adjustment proposal to a bill for funding from the greater part, a source, where Section 4. put it this way: To take a loan up to 220,000 at least. or equivalent to that amount in foreign currency, in addition to borrowing according to the 1.◯ - This is an increase from the bill of 100 to 220, it is obvious that we need to increase the resources we have to provide for more borrowing to meet all these measures - ◯ to create a means of promoting currency, reimbursement of older loans, or to meet the need of state funds for management or investments, if considered practical. It is permitted to loan funds from Iceland's Pension Bank, which is taken to support the currency store. Then there is a new proposal. 534 at 6. a warrant, where a section 7,22 puts it: To lend loans to government funds on the capital, including interest, to support individuals and legislators who are engaged in employment or independent activities and who have experienced temporary setbacks due to a pandemic crown virus. The source will be new in accordance with the requirements set out in the budget for support to a smaller host due to a pandemic crown. At the same time, it is permitted to negotiate with Iceland's Council Bank on the responsibility of a government fund on loans. A respectable president. The change turns to the constant acceptance of matters and to make changes in them so that the resources work better where they can be applied. Therefore, the source is being adjusted so that it covers the changes mentioned here and is improving. I'm finally going to finish this speech, to say that the changes proposed between discussions bear the mark of magnitude, number, and sum of dollars that they are being dealt with in a very powerful way. It is a time sign that the most extensive operation has the name wooding, and at the same time, vaccines are paid for. There's a chance we're gonna run around the bottom and get the economy started, we're going to have a normal economic and commercial life. I'd like to use the last words, and I'll be quite sure to admit that this is a special moment because we're in the end of the terms and with the final budget of this period, to reiterate thanks to which I came in at the beginning of my speech to the why. Congress members of a budget board for a very good job, a great deal of patience, and a great deal of important financial support. Of course, from what I've experienced in committees, the work on a budget committee has been very special during this period with all the funds we've been discussing. This maintenance, this work, and the conduct of the cases between more things and smaller parts, is of utmost importance, especially to a financial committee, this important hold of all legal work. I want to thank all members of the Committee for a good job. The greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed on by the changes I have made and will be given more details to members of the Committee and special Parliaments I covered. Under the view of the majority of the literature of the following whales. Councilmen: Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Haraldur son of Benediktsson, Bjarkey Olsen, daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, Árnadóttir Thor, and Páll Magnússon.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, president of the budgetary committee, for the enforcing talk, and will get into my speech below. I wanted to enter the debt of state funds in the first place. I think it's necessary to make an answer. Hv. A senator has reviewed it, and we see that there is a pessimistic view of the economic situation, but we expect it to be a reality based on the economic interest profile of the Habitat from October 1. Now the late bank has a darker forecast as a matter of course. A senator mentioned in his talk. I'd like to come up with a little something for which no more consideration was given. Also, the question was "whisper." A senator says that the majority of the items are at the edge of the budget and at the highest level. Secretary of finance has spoken of an endless blood - spilling waste in the state system. Under these circumstances, would it not have been reasonable to try to cover that waste, over expenses, to see where we can save in this situation? And then I'd like to ask who. A senator at what limit to government debt has become a barrier to economic growth. It's a natural key question, if any. A senator might come into it. What does the Chairman find realistic about it taking a long time to get back to the debt point of about 30% of GDP?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u29	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir For very good questions, Þórarinsson's Birgir offer. We examined all of this. Hv. A senator first asked about those predictions. Next year, we'll have a new projection and a darker set. It is thus written into a financial program that is fundamental to the budget, that it draws up a darker picture and it's actually doing it. What's not written into budgets, and that's why it's not written into a financial programme is that if we compare ourselves with other North countries, there's a lot of downstrodden in this country. We'll go to a deeper valley when we figure this out from a valuable creation. What's not written out is what happens when we get the kickback, she gets sharper, and that's something we're supposed to look back at. The limits of debt, yes, I certainly believe that we should always look at those limits, watch the spending trend over the period, as we're doing in the greater part of it. And I'm telling you, if there's anything you can criticize, it's the tax interest. We have to look at the limits of sustainability. There is no absolute definition of sustainableity. There are so many differences in the way production factors are put between nations what they have, how the combination is in exporting, etc. And I can't really answer it properly, I really wanted to. It's been said to be 60 and if we use the entire uncertainty range, and this becomes a bigger, darker stage image becomes more real, then we'll go to 59% of GDP, so we'll be able to handle it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answer, of course, is a discussion that we need to take much deeper into here at a longer time limit, indeed. But I just wanted to introduce one thing that I feel is completely lacking in this bill and that is to meet the demands of an older citizen. It is the group that has been left behind, that our judgment in the Central Party, in the activities that governments have undertaken. There are special payments for disability, which, of course, are good, and we support it. But that is, even now, the older citizens of the poorest terms are the lowest income level ever discussed, even worse than the poorer ones who will receive, e.g. this monopolitan payment this year, 70,000 dollars, tax-free, which is a good thing. Why have people not looked to this group of older citizens in the efforts that the government has proposed, many of whom have already made? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u31	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the questions. I'm just gonna finish this with sustainability and debt development. The variables that affect how this is measured and the ratios to the future are greatly covered by financial advice. It would be very helpful to be able to discuss this further, but this varies according to how growth develops, etc. For older people, it's not that we leave them entirely behind. They have their legal rise and we already agree on social support to the lowest income level. I'm going to say here that the Department of Social Affairs is preparing how to get more support from the next two tequilas. [[The president calls.]] That work isn't ready. [[The president calls.]] I'm just a team man with a what. A senator's duty is to increase the support of these two revenues.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u32	Mr. President. What is the most important issue in the eyes of voters? It's health issues. After a survey, it is considered to be the most important issue in the eyes of the voters. That's why I'm surprised that in this budget bill, a special hospital service is held, as well as at a school and a nursing home. It's a fact, it's being maintained. That's amazing in Covid's time. There are other institutions that do not have the requirements, and in two years the maintenance shuttle will fall out of the hospital. Why is it that this government wants to maintain this requirement, including the government? on the health system? It's over 2 billion on the whole system. In addition, the Landspians are dealing with some 400 million people. K. a tilt, which he needs to work up. In the time of an emergency and crisis, this is ridiculous politics. In the practicality that the hospital has already introduced to us, there is also the need to consider. Until the Landspians have to close the psychiatric department, on account of the practicality requirement, and on the other hand, they promote the department. An examination of the cardiac laboratory needs to be reduced and a reduction in the number of days and adjustment of the gynaecology department is needed. Is this the politics that the left-green and forwarders want to put out? Why was it that you were not ready for the committee to clear up that angle? I call for this tail to be cleaned up, and more do. We've done it before. In 2017 the decision was made to clean up the slopes of the Hospital and other institutions so that there had been no class for this. It's just bad politics on your part to hold on to a special demand and to let the Land Hospital earn up over 400 million. K. Do it now. You had plenty of opportunity to make a change, to make it better, you do it in other areas, but you don't do it to Land Hospital, and it's a good thing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u33	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Olafi Ágúst Ólafur of Ágústsson for his input here, he left no particular question. Yet, he talked about the angle, and there has been talk of this cumulative angle. I'd like to reiterate that we need to analyze and treat the terms in this. We're talking about a combined slope, and it's not a requirement for the hospital to master this angle in one year. That would have had to happen for a year, that is not a requirement. On the contrary, we had a good conversation, the committee of the hospital officials, and we encouraged it, as the law commands, that the minister and the hospital be careful about the situation, and how to approach it. Now that we have during this season, contributions have increased to an absolute value of less than 26%. They have been prioritized to hospitals. There's been an enormous amount of money put in there because we want a good and powerful health system, and that's what this government's been doing. Yes, we say that in a more recent committee program, we are expected to reexamine this general requirement, which is true of all institutions. I don't want to be taking one agency out and saying, "Hey, this is something delicate. We just have to change this. We have to start looking at these things differently, watch the methodology in reevaluating expenses, and then they'll be the founders, not us, which are the motivation for operating management. It should be those who know their business that says it. It is those who speak to their ministers and should say that they need to do better in this regard or in other ways, and then put it before the council. Then let's say, it's good, or it's bad, depending on the incident.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u34	Mr. President. The eco-efficiency measures I had in mind, changing the women's medical care department, reducing echocardiography in the heart lab, and closing the psychiatric clinic, are all the action the hospital's has to make in the next year because the hospital has to work up an old palace. It would have been easy for us to write off that leaning. The chairman speaks of his not wanting to take out one institution when it comes to the adjustment requirement. He will. Check your own motions. When it comes to caring for the disabled, you take out the requirements. You can't put dust in the eyes of the voters, that this is some rule that needs to be followed. You're making a political decision to hold the hospital's demand, you're making a political decision to let the hospital work up 400 million. K. Do it now. It was a political decision before you canceled that slope, which was 2017. Why couldn't you agree to do that, Mr. President? [[The president calls.]] These are the actions that are contrary to voters and complete class violations when it comes to the condition that the hospital has prepared for Covid.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u35	V.E.G. President. Let us now keep the facts to the fore. We're talking about 80 billion people. We're talking about a conservative requirement, and I went over the previous year's challenge that we want to reexamine how we use general financial standards in all public finances. That's 400 million. K. and a minister even has a budget to cancel this requirement, if the minister responsible for the seminary chooses to do so. There's nothing to be disturbed about, and it's just not right to put whole divisions down over this, for some 400 million. K. into 80 billion volumes. To see the context of these figures, you only need to see them. Hall--it's just been told--is not to interfere with the operation. It's just an agreement between a minister and a financial committee has not stepped into it more than having had a good conversation with the hospital. [[The president calls.]] We do not want a cumulative limp to interfere with the management of this institution. It's been very clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u36	President. This is where we spoke. The head of the budget board on reassessments and that the institutions knew best how their budgets were conducted, etc. But when we ask about the legal projects of these institutions, people shrug, don't know how much their business costs, the activities we put under law that are supposed to be costed. They should be evaluated for their influence, how they affect people's rights and positions. So when we ask what it cost after all, nobody knows, and they say, "We just have some total altitude here that tires everything we have to do. " Is it really that way? No, it can't be like that. We need to ask about each legal project that we are doing because it affects how we set laws, how we handle rights in the law, how we treat our surveillance on reassessments. This is my first question in this counter, which is about a legal project: How can we really reevaluate our expenses and win the budget without knowing what a legal project will cost us? The other thing I'd like to ask the chairman of a budget board is: Is it justified that pensions will not meet the overall trend in the next year but the special agreements made, the biography agreements? Another decision was made on how pay would be increased in the biography agreements with an increase in the lowest salary in costs of increase, which means that overall pay development in proportion and in the sense of social security legislation, 69.g. There, it's totally different. An increase in the lowest salary by a dollar in terms of a low percentage increase in general. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If the lowest compensations are raised that way, it's a much lower amount.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u37	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For the questions he raised, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request. The first question involves legal projects. Investigated several jobs, a financial committee sent a consistent question to the Ministry. I agree completely with what. A senator with that, and I know he's referring to 20. and the responsibilities of ministers and their Ministry in drawing out a clear picture of the cost. In my speech earlier, I put it this way that we would have to increasingly draw up a set of criteria for the cost of the project and try to keep the values behind the price and quantity, as well as to draw them forward in a transparent way. Information systems need to be improved, etc. From the time we adopted laws on government finance, I feel that progress has been made each year in working out a more clearer picture. At the same time, we are setting up a goal of prosperity, and this should help us to set a clearer standard for legal projects. A senator refers to him. It's just work, and it's a process to pick up a policy frame like this. In the 69th. this is calculated, a mean increase of 3.6%. There's something that's been a lot over the consideration. This is the defined interpretation, and we get these calculations, these 3.6%, which is the mean increase, based on the rise in the budget of this year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u38	A respectable president. I asked if it was not a requirement for pensions to follow biographies because they were made in a different way than usual, not a general increase in proportion that has passed through the labour market, but a special emphasis on less pay with a dollar increase, which has a major impact on how 69. g. is calculated even if I'm not planning on doing it any further. Then I would like to ask the chairman of the legal committee how we get out of the code formed in public funds. The committee discussed an idea of taking expenses from the source, completely aside, and even over a decades and even without interest. Perhaps it is a special negative language field, some crisis fund that we pay up in 30 years or something like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u39	V.E.G. President. Just to finish this question about page 69. That is right, as it were. A senator says, it's a raise of crowns so that minimum wages increase more than the pay that is higher in the ladder. Sixty-niner. it shows that we take into account the general increases and the average increases, and there were specific improvements accordingly. To do this in some other way, we would likely need to change the law. About the Second Question - It Was About?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u40	Choke, get out of the code. A sea that would be taken aside.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u41	I think that's a good idea. We could take a very special discussion about this. I can come up against what. A senator when he gives his talk, and we can discuss it further, because time has just gone.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u42	Mr. President. We're going to talk to you about budget billing for the 2nd. and the proposed changes that came from the greater part, and, of course, the government, and they are considerable and significant, there is already. In that suggestion, there may not be many things that are surprising in themselves, since most of them have been in the past or have been made decisions, so that what has been said is so full of things. But what I would like to discuss is a few things that have to do with the priorities of the budget. This morning a report on the situation in the food business of this country revealed that maps have drawn between March and October, between the ages of 22 billion. This year, some 19 billion of them for foreign tourists. There's been a tremendous shock that affects a lot of people. We've put together some suggestions on the food field and we'll even do that. changes made to the budget now, which includes respecting a tax cut made of the activity that will be temporarily reduced and there will be the example of a number of nations, including the U.S. In Europe, with Germany at the head of a formation. I'm sorry. In view of the situation in this article, do members of the body of elders and the chairman of the legal committee reason to consider this proposal of restoration? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u43	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Valdimarsson Valdímdarsson's name for the inn and a question that points to the suggestion that we should meet with the caterer by temporarily failing from the collection of valuable tax. You're right. A senator originally said, many of the things we're confirming in financial terms are about actions that have been discussed in a special prime event. A senator knows this well from his work at night. The Economic and Business Committee. Of course, when we look at those numbers, these numbers are shocking. We know this. We've got a client from the catering sector at a meeting. The Economic and Business Committee. I'm the opinion, and I think it's in these budgets that we're splashing on the fire out of all clothes, out of all that's near us. It is also a matter of mind and mind whether it will help to fall temporarily from a valuable tax. Of course, doing so does not help when there is no doubt. We've been trying to draw these resources so that they can reach them, and they've got income dropbacks. I'm more fond of direct support. All the travel services, it's now very connected with tourism, is in severe wounds. It's important that we supply these companies with oxygen, because it's a possibility that we can turn ourselves away from the bottom. I need to give this suggestion a lot of thought. I haven't seen her yet, since the papers were just showing up, but I'll do it later today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u44	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. In fact, the suggestion does not work out the loss of the value tax; it is reduced from 11% to 6%, and it is certainly part of a question as the roll begins to increase and make a difference. Perhaps I just wanted to put it in perspective with other suggestions presented in the budget bill and stop, for example. to decide the greater part to increase the rate of application. I pause to offer 80 million mnemonics, and I pause to offer a billion farmers. Here I am not minimizing the problem, but I must ask myself, " What ratios are and what estimates of the greater portion are of the problem we are facing, and whether to look for other ways or not to deal with the problem of prayer, which is certainly great, but not this way. ' [[The president calls.]] It seems to be an entirely open source, and it does not seem to be extended or conditionally supported. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u45	V.E.G. President. Over the years, we've been looking to the tourism service, and it's been on a lower tax level. That's right, it's known. I can better understand the suggestion, to reduce the step temporarily to give the article more oxygen when we get started in the resistance. Ideanly, it is entirely consistent with what we already know and what we already know. Tourism is also a fluctuated industry, so it may be a little special in this regard. Hv. A senator introduced specific support for farmers, as the suggestions here are, and I support them. [[The president calls.]] We sometimes talk on days about food production in these chemicals. [[The president calls.]] The problem of farmers is great, and we must meet him.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u46	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator and president of the budget board for his speech earlier. Indeed, we have had much to do in preparing and caring for the 2nd Environment Committee. ... abundant. I now wonder about the immediate follow-up of what has happened before - I might have had something else in mind when I came up here - but now I want to follow through on it. A senator mentioned earlier when he spoke of 69 C.E. Social security legislation and now this correction, legal correction, is to reach the social security providers as expected, on January 3.6%, on January 1. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Is there any doubt in his mind as to what appears in the 69th grade? that this correction should be carried out in the country now 7.1% from October 2019 to October 2020? If we just followed the laws and weren't trying to hair-do it, we'd be much less likely to pay the lowest incometies. I want to ask you something else, i.e. Christmas bonus, apparently, we owned $1.1 billion. ... totheend of 4 billions. a donation intended to undergo system changes in the social security system and particularly in the case of disability. We also have, as we have observed, a very poor senior citizen and I'm asking, "Now we're going to take out the bonus, probably next week, we'll go. The chairman of a legal committee helps us all, which I think each one of us would really like to, to provide the elderly at the same table as the poorest in the 50,000st. Christmas bonus? A lot. A senator and the chairman of a legal committee help to accomplish this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u47	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land for the questions. They turned to 69. ..... ... toa pension. I figure this year is a legal correction of 3.6%. In the 69th. it says that the increase or change and increase will never be less than the increase in prices, taking into account general and average changes. It cannot be read from this article that pay contracts or contracts are to be taken into account. This is how this article has been interpreted and calculated. If you look closely at the cost of a pension, it has increased beyond the prices of the past few years, but, of course, the pay box has been more. No, I have no doubt. Thus, the Law has been interpreted and calculated in this way. If we want to do this somehow differently, we have to change this article. For older people, I firmly agree - I was very happy when we completed additional support on the lowest income level. I was also very happy when I was the highest. A societal minister started a group to see how to meet what we call a tithing party in a similar way. It's been analysed into ten groups, eight and nine. I'm its sponsor. Now the older citizens who have the right to meet their December's needs are fully supplemented. I'm the sponsor of looking at these next bit of tequila. [[The president calls.]] At the same time, I want to use this opportunity to encourage the highest. Minister of Social Affairs to continue working on that matter and thus speed up the assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson for the answer. I took now the 69th floor. I'm going to refer to the 2nd suit that's being referred to on the benefits of social security: Their decision should take into account pay development, although it will never increase less than the prices of the index price. I'm just a weak lawyer, but the fact is, it's the first part of this lawsuit that is to be seen primarily by the one who is to be looked at, as it were, on the payroll. However, if pay development is lower than the consumption index, then the index price must be taken. That's the whole problem with this article, and I can't understand how the world can be misinformed like this, because what's really true here is the sound, but it's actually been misconstrued. What happens to the Christmas bonus? He's with everyone who's got this Christmas bonus, taxed and shrunk and all that, but those 50,000 bucks. is a special supplement now, so I expect to wake up. A senator simply put his arms around the lowest income of older citizens and helped them get the same thing now before Christmas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u49	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. We have on the bill an interpretation of this 69th floor. and that's right. A candidate suggests that the increase is based on the estimate of the total average workforce increase for 2021 and this 3.6% is higher than the estimated increase in index prices, and therefore it is chosen. That's where we're going, and we're gonna need some kind of assessment of what's going directly on these calculations. I think the interpretation has been the same. But then I'm just a part of the team that we're going to start reevaluating this legal matter so that we can stop gabbling about what it means.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u50	Mr. President. We're discussing the biggest Congress case, the budget. The nature of the case, according to the majority of the politics of the country, appeared in that document. Sadly, the number of jobs in these budgets is not growing enough nor is the group of people who have lost their jobs. Then these budgets are not the green revolutions that have been massized here, and there are still little investments. This is where the numbers speak for themselves, Mr. President. Let's go over this plan. The government's so - called investment campaign accounts for 1% of land production. Of course, that is not enough to meet Iceland's deepest crisis for 100 years. The environmental improvement is 0.1% of national product. Attention, 0.1% is the environmental improvement in the budget. It is obvious that when this is supposed to be the case, members of a council differ in their understanding of the word ◯green Revolution. The innovation addition is 0.3% of national product. These are unsettled numbers. We can't keep arguing about numbers all the time. These are numbers derived from the budget bill itself. Putting 0.3% of land production in innovation at a time this is a joke, unfortunately, because innovation is a password in a crisis. There is too little and too little dosing when it comes to these key factors. Unemployment, our chief enemy today, is to be reduced by this financial bill by 1 percent. If I look - and we got these numbers at the financial committee job - in the investment campaign, as it is called, the direct jobs are about 1,200. That's too small, Mr. President, when we're dealing with historically high unemployment rates, with some 20,000-25,000 Icelanders and others out of work. In addition, 18,000 jobs have disappeared from the work market, making the workforce smaller and fewer jobs, leaving the labour market for many reasons, including a number of reasons. because no appropriate work is to be found, or small. Then, a large group of people are out of work and notice the raisins at the end of the hot dog: According to financial agency itself, 85% of the jobs that develop in the government's investment campaign to men. How is it that the investment campaign that the government is proud of will pass through three political parties knows that 85% of the operations that will be made available to men? That's a fact. This comes directly from the Ministry of finance itself. Mr. President. Everyone realizes that things need to be done much better and that they have to start their jobs. We need to use our government budget in a much more handsome way than this one does. The World Cash Fund, OECD, and the World Bank have been encouraging the world's countries to spend a lot of money supporting their public and professional life. That is why, according to the United States, it is justified to increase the budget further. I know it's huge, but it's justified in a position like this. In fact, it is desirable. Then we'll pay the angle over longer than we're supposed to. We have time, we're dealing with a 100-year crisis. The damage in Iceland is one of the biggest in Europe, and we need to have, unfortunately, more angle and take longer to pay it down. It's good economics and good politics. Mr. President. Now there's very little growth. To make a debt is relatively favorable to the state's funds. It is due time to pay, but the state is in a position far different from the company, home, or community when it comes to debt because we need to grow up out of this crisis, we have all heard that phrase, but in order to be able to grow up out of it, it needs to be used in a much more handsome way when it comes to green steps, investments, innovations, and public service. Sometimes it costs money to make money, and the sooner the wheels turn, the sooner we earn money back. I mentioned unemployment earlier. That is our greatest challenge today. We've never had so much unemployment. It's more than just the collapse of the bank. Unemployment is a poison to everyone's bones. It's going to turn 20 000,25,000 people out of a job at Christmas. Unemployment sucks for the person involved. Of course, it's a financial blow, but it's also a social blow. This brings health challenges. What does it mean to have 20,000 without a job, or 25,000? Numbers need context. There are more jobs than combined in Akureyri, all the Easterns and the West. If there are unemployment to 30,000 people, as some predict, we can add Smokejanestown to that sad comparison. We need to create jobs both in the government and in the private sector. We are not to be called on to strengthen public service - whether it is to increase the number of nurses, policemen, social workers, school members, medical personnel or scientists, all these people who work for the public and make valuables and make the valuables of the private market possible - with presumptuousness as I consider the financial minister and head of the Independence Party have done and talk about the worst idea that he ever heard and then talk about a bloody waste in the public, that we just have to run faster. What kind of message is that, Mr. President, from the secretary of finance, the Chairman of the Independence Party? What kind of message is it from the other administration categories, greens, and forwards, that keep silent under those words? Unemployment is still too low. Of course, a lot of money is being invested in unemployment, but it is, of course, in the growing unemployment. I was surprised when a social minister was almost bragging about the fact that no government had paid as much on unemployment. Yes, that's because unemployment has never been so much. People have the right to make unemployment. Despite the steps the government has been taking, this is too small. Mr. President, we cannot expect people to live on a $2 60,000 bill. after taxation per month. No minister would rely on him to live on such a small amount. We already have large enough people who have to live in such small amounts. It's a bunch of seniors and students. Why are we increasing in the group that is not really able to share in the community the same way that we do because he cannot afford it? We live in an expensive country, and it's not just the right thing to do to raise unemployment rates to make life a little easier for these people, for this large mass, but also for good economics, because sometimes good economics and politics all go together. If we raise unemployment rates, people spend that increase, they don't have a choice. The money that goes to the unemployed, or desperate, or older citizens who are down in the earnings ladder, gets into the economy right away and start working. Money that moves and consumes and goes to work in the economy creates wealth. It's a product of money. And then we're gonna get tax back because we have credit taxes and income taxes, etc. This is so sensible right now. We can even temporarily raise the unemployment benefits if there is a compromise. I don't give anything to the reasons that have been heard from independents and others that if we raise unemployment too much, people will just skip looking for work. There is no work to be found properly, or little, and therefore they do not have reason to do so. I studied in a number of research studies to determine whether the improvement in unemployment improvements would result from employment participation or the will to... [The phone calls the Hall.] We were talking about unemployment and unemployment, a very serious matter. It is our goal here in this hall to make life easier for people. We're just here to make it easier on this country. We have the tools and tools, Mr. President. But again, it's so weak. As you study more like this, you see that the big mistake governments make in such a state is just too small, really. It's doing too little. It is so costly to do this with little or no strength. I know that this is where I can hang in the face: Yes, but what about the angle? I know. It takes money to face the deepest crisis in 100 years. It may cost money to create jobs and make life easier for people who lose their jobs or who run into disability. The investment campaign is 1%, is it really enough for people? It is even called the government's investment and building campaign in these budgets. That's 1% of land production. The industrial organization wrote a review of this bill. People may take it on notice that comes from the government side, but the Society of Industrials, by permission of the president, says: ▪ In this regard, SI expressed concern over financial considerations to share public investments of land production in the coming years. I don't know how many e - mails and phone calls we've received from many monarchies, especially in tourism, restaurant business, art and culture, who have expressed concern over the relatively powerless efforts of the government to reach these groups. These are the people in the field. It's like the government doesn't listen. We've been working this bill for three months. Then there's a government's set-up of 53 billion. A two - part financial committee adds, in a variety of small jarlets, a boat in the Western Islands, money to the Memorial. Where is the large political courage of the majority of the committee's members to listen to stakeholders, whether they are older citizens, poor people, academics, industrial organizations, or labor movements? Let's take a look at the environment. I could only handle them in my entrance. This morning the prime minister proclaimed an ambitious climate program. It's standing somewhere, by permission of the President. Let's go after the money. What does this piece of paper say? It's a bill for next year's budget and then a financial plan for the next five years? What is the environmental structure of this government? It's, as I could before, 1% of land production next year. Half that stuff is on top of a flood. Well, that's good, but if we take it out, what's the rest of the environment from year to year? 0.05% of national product. Yeah, it says 0.05. It is cheap to write some articles in the Morning newspaper and put on a green robe. Where does it show up in the bill of next year? There's no record of that. Let us look at five years of age. Sometimes I feel that a minister has not even looked at his own pills. What does the financial program say for the next five years? This increase is about 4 percentage points 2021◯2125 over five years. Is this really about to answer the voters' call for green emphasis? These numbers are here, black and white. Are we really being told that it's a green revolution? No, Mr. President. New creation is so important in these days. We have an idea to invest. We need to invest in innovation. I put these numbers in context because there are a lot of numbers that can be extended. These numbers need context. That's the context I'm suggesting here: the innovation addition is 0.3% of national product. By permission of presidents, the Society wrote to us on the committee: So the plant gets cold for spherical companies who have no other means of funding and who can expect that many outstanding projects will stop because of lack of financing. Industrial organizations say about this bill: In August 2020, only less than 8% of projects were funded. Many prospective projects were denied strength because funds were limited. That's what industry's organization says. Why don't we give up on technology's funds? Everyone in this room has said that innovation is great. Why don't we pay him back? A little is being added, but it is far from a wealth fund, which has a number of projects that get the highest grades in order to achieve strength but must be turned down because of lack of financial resources. At the same time, some strange bill comes from a so - called Neo-creation Minister to put down a New Creation Center and save 300 million. K. At times, sounds and images, as is often said in politics, are obvious when it comes to environmental, innovation, and investments. Let's go a little deeper into this. The rural areas involved in close - ups, school affairs, social affairs, areas of the disabled, part of the environment have said that their financial needs are about 50 billion. This year and next. There is no question about the fact that this bill does not meet the requirement or the changes made in it. Reykjavíkurburg writes a review of the bill: To date, administration of OECD to Member States and other Norwegian countries is being carried out against rural areas. Iceland's textbook Association presents a big disappointment with a planned high school budget on the bill. A financial committee has been given information about high school rent. High school now has to pay rent. It looks like it's really open. In some cases, at least according to the information available to us, the increase that will be put to high school is immediately returned to the State because schools have to pay rents. This needs to be done much more beneficial, at least To the schools. Small amounts of homes are being carried out in these measures, these Covid actions. Here's some list, you've got so many magazines, what has slipped straight to your homes. That's not much. We're worried about the baby-bots. We need to be much more generous with child - rearing. These aren't the big numbers, but we're always talking about child support. It's too expensive in Iceland to have children. According to the budget, children's benefits should not change for the next five years. We need to improve child support and reduce the damages. We need to be a child-friendly community, we now see that Iceland's children have collapsed. It is interesting, as well as concerns, that there has been a very serious decrease in the number of children in this country. We need to reach our homes only. There have been ideas of support loans and more child support. Because the Independence Party is so opposed, this government has almost disappeared. How do we make life better for people? I know we have to finance this, money doesn't grow on trees. We need a fair tax system, and that's what politics is all about. What has been the priority of this government? There has been a decrease in bank tax and fiscal tax, changes in fiscal taxes, and decreases in fishing costs. Then there's been a reduction of a special tax on which companies buy large ships. There are taxes that are not forgotten. If I mention the fishing charges, it is interesting to consider what they were when this government took over and what they're headed for next year when the government leaves. They have dropped by 30% in the season. They have gone down a year, but they only rise next year. They always said they were off-limits. The yield in the fishing road hasn't gotten worse by 30% at this time, I can tell you that. It is shocking and unveiling that every year the interest paid to their owners and families has been higher than the fishing fees. Remember, because the people have the resources, not individual companies or families, the fishing cover is the way to one of the best and most productive fishing grounds on earth. If the fishing fee had been as high as it was when that government began, the government would have received 15 billion more in the box. I've held a lot of speeches on fishing fees. As an example of how things have improved in the fishing field, there has been a 60% increase in their own money in five years. Still, the fishing costs have dropped. The pay, after all the expenses and taxes have been paid at profit, was over 60 billion in five years. We see that the financial resources that flow to certain families and businesses in this country are so great that they are becoming infected with other aspects of the economy. The compression and possession of the vast wealth created in the fishing industry are now entering other aspects of the economy. That's a worry. It's so huge for a small community, a contract is enough for us in this little competition we live in, that we don't have to live with this. And every time you open your mouth for fishing fees, they say, "You're gonna kill the little developer, what about the little companies out in the country?" There's no one to talk about them, Mr. President. Let the numbers speak for themselves. Thirty of the biggest projects pay 80% of the fishing fee. We're talking about the big things. It does not always work for the giants, some even for European standards, to hide behind small production companies in the West. We're not talking about adding a special spell to that company, that's obvious. But when it comes to the seaside, the security of interest is so masked that the nation has long seen it. Mr. President. I went into the environment a little bit. I take out one point here: Sometimes I feel that people haven't quite read the accompanying documents with the adjustment proposals. I encourage the public and especially the media to look at the accompanying documents because there we see changes in individual teams. I'm critical of this government, and it's interesting, and it's kind of sad, to see that next year contributions to nature protection, forestry, and land healing are decreasing. On the contrary, that's what we've heard the Ministers say. It's in their own budget. At times, contributions are being made to the Contestant, where compression may be increased as a result of economic difficulties. Do people know? The budget is being reduced to the State Radio. Were the left green and forwardees elected to reduce contributions to the State Radio? That's a drop of 160 million. There's already been some layoffs. This is just an example of how the message is clear when it comes to the funds. Culture and art, what does BHM say about them? " BHM says, "by permission of the president. " ▪ In view of this, there is any concern that budgetary budgets will be reduced to support in the field of art and culture in 2021 budgets. A youth's relationship says that culture, art, sports, and youth should not be affected by such factors, much less during those times. I'm glad the sports scholarships come in, but let's see the financial plan, the board here, the quality I live for. One of the few cases where there's a direct decrease in the dollar number in the next five years is what? Culture, art, sports and youth work. Let's just follow the money. Then we'll see what politics gets through and gets the ears of the Ministers. This is a table over the next five years, with a 31% reduction over five years, from 2021/2025. Do people know? The productions of innovation, research and knowledge reports from 2021/2025 are reduced by 23%. We're in the financial program, which will probably be discussed next week, but it's all about it. Mr. President. I worry about a lot of things, as you can hear. My job here is to maintain and point out the best way to do it. I'm really trying to sharpen this government for good works. In my answer to the chairman of the budget board earlier, I made the continuation requirement a subject. Is it not strange to make provision for hospitals, schools, and nursing homes? The health - care strategist system is 2 billion. Is it really true that the health system does not remember about 2 billion? And on top of that, there's an older slope of the Land Hospital of less than 4 billion. The governor sent a letter to us on the committee and outlined the economic measures. The chairman of the legal committee said that this tail, if it was distributed over three years, would mean no change. Apparently, the letter to the Committee contains only written changes. It's supposed to change the Women's Medical Department for next year's rehabilitation, close the rehabilitation department, and, in fact, contribute to the daily department, to shut down the rehabilitation department and reduce the noise in the cardiac lab. It's like 20 operations for next year. We could have said so easily, with a single bow of pen: The Landsaholic doesn't have to make up that four billion dollars. A lean because we've done it before. We decided to do exactly that, before this government began. This has often been done. The land hospital does not have a demand for health care. We get sick or become torn away from what is set up in budgets. It's like the government sometimes forgets. Even if it costs us something, the land hospital, at the end of the Icelandic medical system, needs to accept us. That's why a limp is. There's a quarter of a billion dollars. We've been pushing too hard on the projects we're dealing with. It's not like the Landsspike is doing something unnecessary. That's not the case. They know the land hospital, and there's so much class damage. Next year, there is no legal hearing. Why does this government want 0% in the courts but put in hospital next year? Why does this government want to impose a provision for the hospital next year and not after two years? That's when the reserve can go to zero. A man would have thought that it could have been delayed. If humans are so fond of conservative requirements, why don't we do them more after two years? As a result of the epidemic, we have expanded our health system. The hospital has roamed between an emergency crisis, a crisis, a danger level, an emergency level, and an uncertainty level. Is this the message the government is ready to deliver? To put more money in the medical system, all of us were Kevin 2017. What is the increase between 2020 and 2021? This is from the Land Hospital itself, an expansion of 947 million for the Land Hospital. Is that a lot or a little? Numbers need context. The real increase in Land Hospital next year is 1.4%. Now I ask: Do people feel that it is a revolution and a health campaign to increase money to Iceland's Land Hospital by 1.4%? Did members of the board attend a campaign meeting and say: "I'm going to put 1% extra in the Land Hospital from year to year? No, of course not, Mr. President. I think it's a big deal about the permanence requirement. It is said that the bramble is so small, so small. If it's so small, why don't we just take the demand out? If it's so small, why are we letting the Land Hospital deal with an old palace that calls for practical action next year in 20 teams? That knew the whole thing. We've had three months to sit on this bill and meet almost everyone. Change doesn't make a lot of money. Let's go over them a little bit. First of all, the government's every move comes, 53 billion coming from the government. The committee adds $2 billion. 55 billion, okay, that's a high number. Let's break it down a little. Half these adjustments are the so - called antiquities and the part - improvement process, which is often presented in press conferences. Then you can find the money, so I can only see positive ones, too, to attend higher school attendances, good things. There are sports scholarships, good business, money to buy vaccines, of course, extra fairness benefits from the evil treatment of government institutions, good business, some small social action, 1 million up to 40 here and there, good business. But what is missing in the change options? What's missing in this 55 billion here? a new package of make-ups? In fact, there is no additional in making adjustments for the elderly and the desperate. Of course, the union wants to agree with the requirements older citizens have made for the same elevation that other groups received in the biographies agreement. We have a new proposition to meet fully, for older citizens receive fewer than 16,000 dollars. an increase instead of 9,000 bucks. increase. Why isn't it just fixed? There are 45,000 senior citizens who should notice the vote on budgets when the Senate votes for the UN's transition to place extra money on senior citizens to make sure that that that group receives $1,750. Which he calls and deserves. In fact, there is no additional set in microengineering proposals beyond what is due to their growth. The increase is due to the increase of the number of micropigs, and the number of older cities. Where is the real growth we're always calling for, and the Quantum has repeatedly pointed out? Here's a review of the budget bill from the Quantum Community, it's not from the government position. It says about this financial bill: We're left behind. That's our first reaction. And it's a bad experience. And it is clear that the main focus of keeping people in poverty remains. This is what Iceland's Legislature Alliance says about a budget bill that ministers and individual senators are always boasting that it's so great. What does Developmental aid say about the budget bill? ▪ Be the bill, and the plan will be agreed unchanged by the General, which means that microenergy pensioners will be further reduced in terms of living and will be sentenced to continue in poverty. It is impossible to tell this group that there has been so much work done for him, as it always does for the government. What is our objective in this room? This is to make life easier for people. We do this with a more reasonable sharing of common wealth and money that we funded from income or services as a living source. The budget is 1,000 billion. How is it that these groups are on constant pressure to make ends meet? In that we set the right choice, a special group of people is a limited number. No one chooses disability. We decide on the amount of money these people are forced to live on. We are the tenth richest country in the world despite this crisis. Indeed, we can put our arms together better. Yesterday, an amazing answer to the request of Logi Einarsson was made Bjarni Benediktsson of finance for a property post. I'm incredibly interested in this. I've been talking about how much property in Iceland is. The balance is relatively high. It always grabs the government and says that the income equation is quite high on a international scale. It is according to the Gii score. Consider the problem of property. It's a big one in Iceland on a international scale. The richest five percent of Iceland's population prefers the Independence Party has over 40% of its pure possessions in the country at least In fact, they have more, because their stocks are registered to name value, not market value. It is also a group with possible financial resources in foreign markets and foreign taxpayers. Let's just take the richest percent, or 0.1%, these numbers show so good, black and white, that in this country, there are two nations. This is the nation of the super rich who will in turn get more consideration and even tax reductions from this government. I specifically mentioned the priorities of this government in terms of taxes, whether it's a fiscal tax, a capital tax, a bank tax, a label on big orders, the fishing fees. These are taxes, or fees, which the rich pay primarily. We don't need, Mr. President, to keep these groups, microcities, and older citizens, students, patients, or poor people, in their status. That's political decisions. It is possible to have a much more reasonable tax system to finance what is needed. There is no further growth in the innovations and investments of a professional body. Then it's not a long saddle coming down at first. There is nothing for the rural community to change, no improvement in climate or environment. Actually, there is a little improvement in the environment. I'll tell you what it is, it's very peculiar.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u51	Protocols.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u52	It's added to application programmes, yes, 100 million on application programmes but the environment is set up to notice, 80 million to the Memorial. That it's environmental is hidden from me, but it shows some priorities. I've been very clear about the fact that we're supposed to stop my job. She's a child of her time. There's no market for this, and we're just supposed to help these few farmers stop, we're just supposed to pay them out, so I'm speaking Icelandic. It is absurd in 2020 to grow animals in such large spaces as two layers of money because of their fur coats. It is not as if the fur is a side product of meat production. We don't eat minks. We're growing minks so we can skin them and put them in furs. Pelsar is not an essential warning, and we should stop doing this. Then there's the news about a mutant virus that's now in Denmark, it's gone from man to man and back to man. There's just an additional reason we should stop doing this. Of course, in Iceland, memory generation has become very low, but I just think it's okay to speak very clearly here. We don't need to go to a mink, and that's why it's strange, especially, from the government of the left green, to hold this up. She puts 80 million in the miniatures of her proposals but, of course, she puts 50 million on the budget we'll make next week. Let's put these 80 million in the context of the adjustment proposals. The government is putting in its changing proposals the same amount for the Memorial service as it takes time to put in a short wait list for the State's National Analysis and Advisor Centre, from 340 children to 200. There's going to be a waiting list. What does the National Analysis and Counseling Centre do? It ensures that paediatric patients with severe developmental diagnosis receive diagnostic and diagnostic measures. Should this not be the first priority? It is 80 million to shorten the waiting list. But why don't we explain the list? I'm just putting this into context. The priorities are so stupid. It's coming from the same pot. There are many things in our government that do not require much money, but we can easily improve. I would have thought that the State Department of Analysis and Advisory for Children with Analysis should be quite high and ahead of a lot of other things I've been talking about, not just the ministries. Last spring, the council was so full of pride, for we all agreed on a proposal made by 23 senators in front of us that it was to be financed by psychological services. That's a great thing. We should have been inducting psychological services into our system a long time ago. It was said to cost 1◯2 billion. Let's do this. One hundred and twenty-two billion is important. There is evidence that people in this country are suffering worse. We need to make sure that there's a good access to a psychological service. Every 12 days, there is suicide in Iceland. Every other twelve days, another person dies from an overdose of medicine. Hundreds of us see self-harming teenagers. We're here seeing a North American plot, even a worldwide estimate of the use of antidepressants and anxiolytics. Paying off psychiatric services. But what is involved in making changes? Nothing. The secretary of finance said this spring as soon as we agreed - the council wants to subsidize psychological services - that the council needs to secure funding. Thewelcomement is here. We're not ensuring financing. We get the answers that the Ministry of Health is ready to post 100 million dollars in the department's financial project. It's a long way from what they said. The charge was to cost 1◯2 billion. I'm sorry, 100 million dollars from the Department of Health to subsidize psychological services is not enough. If we were to spend extra funds on it, we would even save some other place, so there are better things to do with this financial bill. Mr. President. I think I went over the main thing. We in the United States have 13 changes that will be here for our vote tomorrow or Saturday. That's all the government parties have agreed to. But what will happen to our making changes? They are frequently let down because they come from the position of government, chosen by 47% of the people. We have a commission, like you, okay? Senators, this will be an interesting vote. Mr. President. It's easy to criticize, I know it. This is our role, but the United States has also presented positive suggestions. We have suggestions that we teach us the responsible way, since we really have specific and practical suggestions to help us cope with this crisis. There are green - step suggestions to put your arms around the groups that need help, especially during times of crisis, the suggestions of an investment in public employment and personal business. We're going to bet on the movie industry, we're going to bet on a new creation, we're going to bet on all kinds of wands. It's an ambitious, big document that I think the government groups should consider because we're told we're in the same boat, but large groups in the community don't find it that way. If we are in the same boat, let us show it by our actions and by our numbers. Let's listen to the people who are feeling themselves what it's like to bring their lives back to Iceland in 2 60,000 k. or less than a month. It is our clientele and voters, and it should be our goal. Our goal in politics should be to make life easier, to make life less expensive, and to make life more diverse. These goals are so far removed if we carefully examine the budget of this government or the financial agenda.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u53	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur, son of Ágústsson, for his talk. Of course, it is as always, especially when it comes to socializing factors in speeches. A senator, that I can agree with a lot of things. Hv. paritaprevir began to be intense as the innovations and environments came into play. I'm gonna stop right there. A senator said that these were just unsettled numbers. Still, it is important to put them in context and context. A senator put them in perspective. I come up here to agree with it with what's happened. A senator says there's a need to put numbers in perspective. Then I'm going to make this context. Let's start with innovation, research, and knowledge. The 2017 budget was less than 15 billion. During the season, more and more have been added to innovation, research, and knowledge branches. Today, a permanent contribution is less than 26 billion, an increase of 74%. If there's not a big increase in the context of budget development in the topic areas, I don't know what. This is the context that I was going to establish during the terms of my current term. A government has worked. The environment - in 2017, it was 16 billion, 2021 beds 24 billion, 48% real - life expansion. This is a 48% environmental improvement. I'd call it a green revolution, the highest. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u54	Mr. President. Yeah, maybe we're talking about the same numbers. It's a pleasure to know that the chairman of the budget board is not refuting my numbers. I'm not going to push his numbers. It's about the context. When we have a government that boasts of a green revolution for months, a press conference after a press conference, it cannot live up to the big words when the increase is 0.1% of land production. We usually aim for land production, that's not a wrong comparison, that's not unfair. Adding 3 billion extra into the environment is not the revolution that the nation is calling for. We've got 1,000 billion in budget. The land production is 3,000 billion. The overall environmental category gets 24 billion. Why is that all? That's 2.4% of the budget and even less national production. Yes, the environment has been improved, it can be done, it did not exist nearly a few years ago. But when we have 1,000 billion bucks. A document, and we put 253% into the environment because it's too small, the environment is a bigger case than that. The same is true of innovation, 26 billion of it. It's easy to calculate this, the budget is 1,000 billion, and 2.6% are going into innovation. I don't know how many would agree that 2.6% of the innovation is enough to meet the deepest crisis in 100 years. The addition is 0.3% of national product. Is that the answer? The Neo-creation sector and the prosthesis of betting on innovation? Why don't we put more money on this? [[The president calls.]] These numbers could be multiplied, because they're so low in the first place.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u55	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Of course, it is our job to put things in perspective and to fight for the cause. Hv. A senator introduced culture, art, sports and youth, and I know that both me and the boy. A senator, and certainly most of those sitting in the councilroom, will want to do everything for these lawsuits. And that is what the government has done. On with the context, rate development; 30.6% absolute increases in time. This is 4 billion, numbers on the real worlds, and is permanently included in these classes. It's 8 billion in the environment. In innovation and in the fields of knowledge, it's 11 billion and now we're just talking about reform, an additional into the system. We want to do better in so many areas, and we talked earlier about health issues. What's the big picture? How do we handle the government's budget? The situation in which we are dealing with is this: In the income crisis of the state's budget, we have over 700 billion. If we take health, social, health, social, educational, and educational services, the three Ministry of Education and all the media and the lawsuits of these schemes, and we add the interest charges to them, we're out of income. That means that what goes to the highest administration and seven other agencies on a very important case is all borrowed, all borrowed. It will be our common battle here at the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u56	Mr. President. I was very honest about funding the things I was talking about. We'll borrow it. The money doesn't grow on trees, it makes them pro. We need to grow out of this crisis. We need to invest in ourselves and in our jobs. It lacks, not just my opinion, but many other stakeholders. But, yes, we're supposed to increase our loans. That's a good thing to do. That's what they're doing. I know it's huge, but I'm saying that circumstances call it a little bigger to get us out of this, so we can make it easier for people who need it. I know that there are well - meaning people in all categories, of course, and people are trying to do their best in difficult times. That is why I feel so sad that we no longer get together to listen to those who really are giving us advice. Let's put more money on unemployment benefits to make life easier for people, put more money in innovation, and the environment, more busy jobs than we're doing here. The small operation of the full - time technology fund cost 5 billion, that just goes nowhere to put 5 billion on technology funds and financial resources. Imagine how cool that would be. You'll get all credit if you take it step by step. With culture, we're supposed to be betting more on culture. I agree with what. A senator says we're going to bet on culture. That's why I don't understand, I've had ten speeches on it, why the remuneration rate in filmmaking hasn't been raised. It's a little different, but everyone's familiar with this conversation in this room. This is one pen mark, would have a multiple effect on jobs and increasing arts and so on. There are so many instruments of death that the government groups have received but are not new. [[The president calls.]] They have behind them the political will of the nation and almost every group here to do more.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u57	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to agree with his words and describe that I'm pleased with that, and I think we all agree on that, as a boy. A senator came in answer to what he was doing. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, that we want to protect our community and get a good kick out of this crisis. I really appreciate that we agree on this, even though we may be able to discern the exact ways and the location of the weight. I think it's important, though, that we in that place at least agree on its importance. Hv. In his speech, a member of the body suggested that this often takes place so that suggestions from the smaller parts do not get a walk in votes. Hv. At the same time, a senator came to see that there were some very good adjustments made by the majority of the items that I understood to do so. A senator supported. Is it not so that, of course, there are many suggestions that are written into the committee's opinion of a greater proportion of legal committees, which are still suggestions that the entire committee may agree on and at least some larger portion of it, but just a larger section? So it is a slightly more complex form than that, on the other hand, it is just suggestions for more parts and suggestions that the greater part does not agree with. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] These are largely the members of the committee's list of objects. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u58	Mr. President. First, there are 53 billion of the Council's 55 stipulations, and they are determined by the Council. That document never changed. A senator knows. After all our work, the more part is to do 2 billion dollars. Change and no basic changes. First thing. In this regard, a member of the body gives support to the government's decision to change matters. Of course, we support the purchase of the vaccine. Of course, we support the raising of funds into high school and university. Of course, we support increases in fairness. It's a good change in plans. But how is that possible? So, then, there is no way for a senator to support some of the changes we make? I see here why. A member of the same category who could handle State Radio, which is having a shrink from year to year. We'll make some adjustments tomorrow's proposal to make up the state radio the loss of income. Left greens have said that they support the continuation of contributions to the Kingdom Hall. They do not make it totally unchanged. There will be a vote for tomorrow's proposal, and as an example, it will be interesting to see if the left greens do not simply vote with that suggestion. I'm not asking you to confirm or support all of our proposals. But over a period of three, four years, you have made more and less of all our suggestions, your old suggestions. [[Up front.]] Many of these suggestions are practical, as with the Technical Development Fund, to me it's just a good example, and also with the Land Hospital. Why can't we just unite in clearing the angle? Why can we not unite in some of the suggestions presented by the government? [[The president calls.]] Why does it always have to be that shooting warfare? [[The president calls.]] Everything we bring is canceled because it comes from us in the government position. [[The president calls.]] I thought we were out of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u59	Mr. President. What I've just brought up in my opponent is that there's a lot of change proposals being made and some of them come from the government, which is responsible for policies in the seminaries. I can give an example of 340 million. K. contributes to the construction of the Nejarav Harbor. This is an extremely important injection project in an area that has a high level of unemployment. I think everybody agrees on the importance of that, even if it comes from the government. What I'm pointing to and drawing out is that we agree on a lot of these changes, at least to most of them. However, this too was mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator says he thinks he needs more funding in, well, I'm afraid to tell all the lawsuits. My question to why. So the senator is: Does he think, now that we're adding 55 billion, and there's a lot of suggestions that everyone agrees on, that the only way is to add indefinitely when we're in the position that we're borrowing this money? Here we have suggestions that most of us agree on. But, hey. A senator simply seems to want to add a little more to what is being done. And there's a lot of work being done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u60	Mr. President. No, I don't want to keep adding, but I could do the basics that we should have added more. There is no such thing as a change in the suggestions for the elderly or disability beyond the number of the elderly. There is nothing in the process of altering innovation, investment, or employment. There's nothing for the country to change.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u61	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u62	Not a change in the motion. And it is still being held at a hospital and nursing home. It is not being added to the environment outside the grant to a mink that is not an environment for five dollars. The more part of the legal committee works, beyond what the government puts forward, is giving extra money to the National Law House, to the United States Flyer Museum, to the Odda Society, to the Print History Set. There is also some study boat in the Western Islands. It's an extra budget for defense, which may be interesting for the left green. These suggestions are not being faced with the criticism we received from review. Hv. A senator knows that. Putting 3 million, 6 million, and 5 million in this country is not meeting the political challenges and critical points we received. What did we get, about 50 envelopes? They were from large trades, from unions to the Microcollar Union, into the older citizens' Union. These are groups that are not satisfied with the results of the majority of the share. These are not groups that call out for money all the time. But more money, especially in those times, is being called for, and borrowing is justified. Nobody's talking about raising taxes. Other countries are doing this. We're getting advice on increasing borrowing and taking more time to pay off the angle. We can do that. The wealth has full opportunity to do that, to be gentle, to think about the future, to invest in people and businesses. [[The president calls.]] It's been missing, and it's not just my words that confirm it. [[The president calls.]] It's the words of the others who've been looking at this bill, apart from this House of Congress. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u63	President. This has been very hard work, and it has been very interesting in many respects, especially when a council was delayed to October 1, allowing the government to make room for policy, new financial programs, and its policy in government finance, and consequently it was delayed. Then, six months after the level begins and the delay to put forward a financial program involving government policy, which is part of the package, you can't see how we get out of the situation we are in right now. You would have thought it was the duty of the government to set a policy for us out of the situation we are in, not just a policy taken to take care of everything that it falls. There is a kind of crisis control, of course, and it has to be done too, but the main thing for us is to look to the future and say, "It's the hole we're falling into now. It's okay because we're gonna get out of her because of this and this and this. Because we stress innovation, and the practicality will be so that we can dig into the hole again. But there are no special explanations. The first funds were provided for 1.5 billion, something like it, in a new creation that is good and blessed for itself. At the same time, 3 billion were marketed for tourists. It showed what the government expected would happen, that this would be a quick, sharp dive that we would soon get out of. What an optimistic outlook that was! On the basis of the laws we follow, the government's laws on public finances, a measure of caution should be exercised. They should have a baseline transparency and stability. A view would have made it better to expect the best than to prepare for the worst. What the government did, however, was simply to expect the best and to prepare for the best. But that did not happen. And what history tells us is that after a single epidemic of this kind, it is not uncommon, especially when it is not predictable that a vaccine will occur, which a remarkable number of people have faced in some way, relative to the first projections in the international community, would take about one day. years to receive a vaccine. It has survived, and the process has been extremely successful. The fact that governments did not expect them to have to see this situation for a year is most reprehensible and reflected in the financial and financial programs we have here. The government is simply going to hold hands and wait for it to run out. Then it all begins again, and it will be as it was before the epidemic came here. This is not likely to work, not at all. There must be some attention to the gaps people are falling into, people haven't been caught. Future innovations need to be considered, and this is not done in an orderly way, either in financial planning or in these financial laws. We asked the financier about the situation, e.g. According to Rannis's invention fund, there are some funds, such as the Research Fund, the Technological Development Fund, the Industry Fund, the Climate Fund. It was reviewed how much money was applied about 2019 and 2020 in them and how much was spent. In the Research Fund, 19% of the reviews were accepted, which is quite good but not as recommended, for the management and strength of 20 to25% of applications. If the success rate falls below 20%, good comments are being rejected. But in the condition we are in, it is absolutely justified to go further, to go further and further into innovation, to cast the net in more places. Indeed, research fund is especially important because it prepares basic research that results in the next decade or even longer. The long-term recovery preparation will lead to, for example, the long-term recovery process. In funds like a research fund. Then there is the Technical Development Fund, which has a 13% share ratio in 2020. They applied for 9.4 billion, and 8.2 billion were rejected, i.e. granted 1.1 billion. The amount of money we contributed in the smaller part would have covered a good deal of this, along with the rest of the funds and the available opportunities would have been started with better employment support than you can see today. For example, a fund of technology for development and research aimed at innovation in the economy and some of the success rates of the fund have been relatively low over the past few years. The desired success rate is in the range of 25◯30%, but it has been only 13% in the year. There are opportunities, lost opportunities, opportunities offered by the government, but released. And then there's this inside fund that gives the money to buy on equipment, databases, software, manufacturing equipment, and stuff like that. This is only better, 38% of applications accepted. Still, we're only talking about 340 million. This is similar in a climate fund, 161 million given, or 13% of what was applied. The emphasis on innovation on climate is very obvious to us. This is what I wanted to talk about. About the innovation future. Of course, they were taking steps, but the opportunities were clearly greater and, under the circumstances, even if the situation had only been a short time, it would have been a good idea to seize the opportunities for the innovation that lay on the table in front of us. It wasn't done, and I'm sorry for the government decision. In my committee program, I present a few simple adjustments. Although it would have been possible to go through exactly all the media and the points there, but because both financial and financial programs are really very unhealthy, it is very difficult to see if the costs are really right compared to the expected services, I decided initially to make the obvious and simple adjustments that can be debated about the need. There are still others. You could easily go to your communities. There are other ways in which such suggestions can be applied in a different way too. They need a bigger conversation. The new proposals I discuss in my committee party are at first 120 million to Pernon Protection. This is shown in the annual report and letter of the superintendent of the Persian Guardian that ten counts are needed in order to enforce the law established by the General Assembly. The General Assembly gathers and establishes the protection laws that impose specific requirements on our system for handling the rights of that law. It is the General Assembly that asks for protection from Pernon, but it does not finance it. I would call it a form of hypocrisy, there's a certain outward show in the making of the law, but I'm not going to follow it up with the financial authority required for the law to work, to build up for the rights that the law gives us in the country. We're looking at the law, putting out one hand and saying it's a certain right hand, but the other hand that holds the money, we put it in our pocket and say, "No, it doesn't really need anything, it just needs a print. It's a law, but when it comes to enforcing it, we don't do it. The next change in hospital service. While there are many health - care problems, we focus specifically on the National Hospital of University Hospital for the simple reason that it is a problem for calculating that seems to be done by the Ministry of finance. When a bargain is made, the Ministry goes through them and calculates how much money they'll cost, updrafts and prices change, and so on, how much they'll make money. However, sometimes the institutions take the wrong conclusion. It was forgotten to consider something, or it was underestimated, perhaps overassessment in some cases, but in the case of a Lands Hospital of a University Hospital, in view of the data we have seen, it appears that the cost of collective agreements was underestimated. There are other things underneath there, e.g. the flow problem that the government's changing laws almost fix. You can expect it to be almost fixed. There are 1,350 million who are going to solve the flow problem, go to an increase in nursing room, etc., which is still not quite clear on how to solve it. I'll probably need a place to live, but it'll only be done later on on how to handle these 1,350 million. At least they're supposed to solve the efflux problem. This flow problem has resulted in an increase in cost at the Land Hospital of ◯ a university hospital due to the inadequacy of recruitment and the government's ability to solve the problem. There have been increased hospital costs because government policies did not bother to solve this highly predictable problem for many years. That is why the costs have been raised at the hospital, instead of where they live, at the councilhouse, with the government. As a result, we suggest that those who have gathered up simply be wiped out, that they do not drop into business and services of the Land Hospital in the next two years, as expected. A very simple and obvious change in this regard. The third and final adjustment proposal for the biographies. There were now special biographies that the workers of the labour market have boasted about, and the government has thought this was a great deal. I don't completely agree with that, e.g. for abbreviated work week. It's basically just a coffee session, moving them out so that people take them when they've done most of their work, rather than just that it's really short on their work week. But let's leave it in the middle. Mainly, biographies had to deal with increases in the lowest salary, relatively greater than the higher salary, with a raise in the dollar. Instead of raising all by 5%, they all rose by 10,000. When the person with a hundred thousand dollars. I'm gonna get 10,000 bucks. in pay a 10% increase, it's not the same as if the person with a salary of 1 million gets 10,000 bucks. increase, it's only 1%. The impact of this change, this particular decision to make collective agreements in this way, not with an equal rate increase, but with an increase in a dollar, will result in a mean increase of 10%, although 10% for the lowest salary and perhaps 1% for the highest paid. Let's just say that's the way it is. That means when it's 69. The social security law, which is about to take into account the general pay development or the index of consumer prices, is below when it is to increase compensation, actually increase the contribution of the public insurance pensions, disability or unemployment improvements, increased according to the general pay rate of this 5% but 10% of the number for them the lowest paid in this paid example of me, the real number I found in the remuneration should be 7.1% but not 3.6%, as it is for the social security. In order to achieve the same effect for the lowest paid, for those under Social Security legislation, it should be 7.1%, to achieve the same level of crown increase. This is what should be reflected in these changes, that this increase, in order to achieve them numbers, is required on the pair with the biographies. A special decision was made to set such agreements, government contracts that the State has been able to handle by various measures, collective contracts, which called for a particularly powerful way in which the government could solve that knot, required a special decision for the government to establish these agreements, to get them started. The same special decision is then not to be made when discussing progress for social security. Then, according to Article 69, the general decision is made. Social security legislation to raise according to general trends and not increase by 7.1% as it should, or 10% in my fictitious equation, but by 5% or more, by 3.6% as expected. That, on its own, is a somewhat interesting approach to political policy, it is a political decision to make a special decision to increase the minimum wage in collective labour agreements but not to make the same specific decision on social services. That's why we're making these changes in the Pirates to correct them numbers so that they reflect the biographies and there's some harmony in government policy or all the way around the council, because we have Congress democracy here, we at the World Council, we're going to have financial power in the end. I understand, in a sense, that this kind of system law, where the Commission only follows the law, will come to the council, a budget with only a 3.6% rise. It's just that the law is being carried out. It's fine, okay. Increase is not part of government policy. This is just a financial bill that's being taken by law, where the boxes are being checked, these must be updated, there's going to need to be reimbursement, this and this, here are the binding expenditures that have been approved on various laws, etc. So the budget bill receives the council that scratches in the head and says: No, it was made a special decision in the biographer agreements, meaning that the interpretation, according to the law on general pay development, is a problem to the special decision made in the biographer agreements. There's obviously some flaw there, since other decisions are not taken into account. It makes it possible that I have a Senate case in progress that simply copies the text as it looks about the rise in the salary of the senators and replaces it with the text in 69. g., to take into account the level of crowns in the same way. It is quite simple, but for some reason, this Hebrew thought is not followed. So now the council gets this discrepancy in front of them and should make a decision on the basis of its legal authority. We're supposed to see it black in white to 69. gr. The law doesn't match the project. That was a special project. There's a clear flaw in the law that, yes, the system is certainly applying and returning to us, that the law is being carried out. As the legislature authority and the sheep market, we should see this defect and make another decision. The government did not. The government, above the law, can make a different course, can say: Yes, all right, it's the decision of enforcing the law, meeting all the requirements of service, and all of this in accordance with the law, but then it can say, "But it's still our policy on top of it. ' And it could be, because we decide to do this in our lifetime contracts, we're going to do it like this in social security. But the government didn't. Now it is time for the council to ask themselves this question: At the council, to see that there is something defective in 69 C.E. Social Security Act based on the implementation of biographies? Now I'm gonna put the change options aside. I've got a pretty big commission opinion, about 20 pages, along with the accompanying documents. I'd like to focus on the accompanying documents first, but there's a problem for me. The financier is the source of information, brings out the introductions of the consultants, makes up the budget bill, which is totally omnipotent and inaccessible. To understand what is happening, we ask questions, e.g. why the increase in social security law is only 3.6%, why it's not somebody else, etc. A financial committee sends questions to various institutions and recruitment committees to those who are not readily available for reporting. However, these are documents that are preserved in a way that is not confidential about them. They are so called committees. They are there, and members of the Parliament can approach them. If anyone asks for a reference in information law, etc. about getting notes that leave the plots, of course, he gets them. What I did was take all these memos together and put them in a package with this committee, to make the questions of the legal committee and the answers to those questions available to everyone, so that there can be a small glimpse of what the job is in a financial committee, which is different from what it may look like to be with closed committee meetings and lots of visitors and so on. The problem is that the form of queries and answers may be faulty. If a financial committee is asking questions to the council, it is usually called a publication that sends the questions to the Ministry or the person handling the matter on behalf of the Ministry. The problem then appears when the answer may come only by e - mail. Then it's e-mail communication with names and stuff rather than a formal memo. This will only be difficult because the email can't be printed in a package like that without cutting and gluing, and so on, which was a good deal of work. This was happening at the last minute, we're getting lots of answers at the last minute, so there aren't quite any answers or questions in my package, unfortunately. This is really my motivation to make this process more accessible and accessible. When asked questions, a financial committee should be available to all. When the answers come, they should be available to all because the answers are often relevant to a number of observers, just people in town, very important. The answers can give them the insight they need to make comments on the budgets suggested in the budget because, as I said, the budget and financial programs are very transparent. When members of Congress ask for more specific answers, it can affect the way the comments are received from sources interested in the subject field or the language involved in the question. But this is not really available now, so it will be interesting to see if anyone interested in the work of the Parliament looks at these questions and answers and see what it looks like. We don't finish the budget until we're about to finish next week, so maybe there'll be some time to scratch your head and take the case in between 2 and 3. if there are any tips on the answers. We'll see about that. I'm doing a little piece on my committee opinion of the future. We all know that the challenges we faced in both last and last elections were enormous. Following the 2007 and 2008 economic collapse, and the years that followed, there was little concern for infrastructure. In the government investment, maintenance was lacking. The plans were needed to build up transport and so on. There was simply a need for a great deal of structure. That's what I've been calling inside debt. This is of great importance because, as a result of the collapse, when the fallen banks were made up and the worn - out money paid to the State what went against them, the establishment of the new banks, etc., it went almost exclusively on reimbursement or payment for financial debts. Money debts are very convenient, they are very transparent, they show interest, payments, etc., everything very accessible and able to see how much we owe ourselves, i.e. each budget is cost, interest costs, and so on. However, what is very omnipresent is an inner debt. How big is the entrance debt? There have been various assessments of the internal barrier in the road system, a fixed maintenance debt. Although I am taking it to a lower speed today, the activities of industry and other people brought up a figure of 100 billion, reminds me of how to transport and how to handle things. We don't see so easily the size of the infrastructure. We know she's in there. We know there's mold in a house to be finished. We know that the Landspians have long needed a refurbished and better facilities that are finally being built. We know it's a debt, but we don't know how much it costs us. There are no diagnostics, and there is a problem. If we had an assessment of how much we owe ourselves to the money we owe, we could make a decision on which debt we were going to pay, which debt would be more practical to pay off. There were, indeed, loans with very large interest after failure, loans to save the expected pensions, with about 9% interest, loans that would probably be very good to pay down above any of the interiors. But it may also be that there are debts that cost us so much that there is a greater improvement in paying them down, performing such projects as this. building a new hospital, even a new airport, who knows, against paying off other financial debts. We get rid of more costs and gain more money from going into that process than from paying off a similar amount of money. If we are going to use the funds that came in because of the fragments, these are the advantages: Should we use it to pay down the money debt that comes from it, or should we invest in the interiors, which will certainly release us from the maintenance debt and other items, but will also make a profit for the future which is expected against growth? We'll just reimburse the money debt, keep it in the low interest environment that's been developing. This question never really reached the government, since the financial debt lay ahead and even the borders were not considered. It was during the period when we were at the council, and I pointed to this on a financial committee, that it would have to be considered, too, that the inner debt would have to be considered. But we never had any analysis of it or anything like that from the government. It's just decisions that are missing. There is no hope for the future when everything, as I mentioned initially, so financial planning and financial therapy do not go away in the same process that is setting up what will be taken care of right now. The future, however, is far from pleasant fun. The only policy I can see is, in fact, to hold on to it until the code runs out, because it's going to be a whole lot different, and everything will be just like before, and we can start again like nothing ever happened. That is not a very progressive thought. I'd like to go over this classic thing with me. I asked a financial minister at the beginning of the discussion in the fall of the discussion if it was all the conditions discussed in the government on public finances. That's when they said the highest. Secretary of finance, by permission of the President: ▪ I have to say just as it is that at times I feel interested. A senator's rules of formality overshadow all the Prarkish thought. I find this very remarkable answer, quite remarkable, especially in view of the financial Council that came later on, which was just about the importance of formalized environmental resources, especially in the current year's tour. It's really trying to survive, to make plans, to make a staging analysis, and to look closely at how we're going to save the present situation and how we're going to get out of it to the future. Or, as it says, on the importance of public financial laws, the law is intended to secure, by permission of the president: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. pooled long-term and short-term public financial policies, 2 The careful planning and legislation regarding the economy of public bodies and the management of public funds, 3 efficient and practical public government and activities, 4 that public accounts are in accordance with established accounting guidelines, 5th effective monitoring of the management and administration of public funds, property and rights. I've most likely been lured into protocols about the 1st and 2s, i.e. pooled policy and careful planning programmes, which are the point of the next matter, that it is a set of efficiency and efficiency for accounting by the book and that effective monitoring is possible. So these are not available. It is not to follow modalities on a comprehensive strategy or careful planning. As I've always told you, since I came in here, the cost analysis of government policy is missing, there is no progress analysis of government policy. Therefore, we cannot make a decision that we should pay less than a financial debt because we simply do not see that it is inexpensive and more practical to do so. There's also a missing option analysis. The decision analysis is of utmost importance, for it tells us that governments have actually considered a wide range of solutions to the problems that confront us. If we do not see it, we cannot see that finding the best solutions has been accomplished. Instead, we're usually trapped in some ideologies that we have to stuff PPP somewhere. In the building of transport, it would seem that there will be a requirement somewhere to be a mixture between the public and the private sector of these PPP projects called. The conclusion was that some of the transport projects were PPP initiatives. Was it an intelligent use of the ideological concept of PPP? No. Perhaps in the case of Dizziness, but it is rather unclear whether such projects are involved. It is not part of what has already happened, but it could be if the Way of Sunfall goes far. All the analyses that we did on PPP showed that they were generally more expensive than ordinary public work and there was no evidence to suggest that the projects selected in PPP were somehow atypical that they did not match the general rule of being more expensive in such a project. There was nothing that said. On the contrary, there was much to indicate that these projects would eventually be more expensive, if not publicized to taxpayers, for the citizens of the country who pay them more taxes in local areas because of road expenses and the like. Finally, more money goes to the project than would have been necessary. This is an example when ideologies govern, not efficiency or selection of the best possible solution. They're trying to find something where ideologies could be used, not because it's the best solution to that project, but because ideologies must be used. That's how the government is a little bit in Iceland. We've got some big decisions here and there: we're going to have to use the market for solutions on this but not in the fishing road, not at all, not there, no, no, no, no. We're about to go on a lot of transportation, we're about to park a new road, and we're running all over the place. We need to stuff our co-works somewhere. Is it the best solution, the cheapest solution, the most practical solution? It doesn't matter under the government. It's as simple as that. I want to review only the conditions in which public financial law puts us, for I find them extremely important. The Committee's conversation with the State accountant was of particular interest, since National Accounting does not completely agree with my interpretation of the 20th paragraph. legal on public financial policies regarding government policy. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Each minister sets out a policy for the issues and lawsuits he is responsible for at least a short time than five years of age. The course should describe the focus and targets, including The quality and services objectives, the structure, the development and the improvement of the activities that depend on the relevant topic. The policy shall highlight the achievement of goals, responsibilities, timing, use of funds, and emphasis on shopping. Someone might say, "There's nothing here about the cost-benefit analysis or an option analysis. That's right, that's exactly what they're not there. But there's something else when you read between the lines, and especially if you read the report that explains it in the following way, with the permission of a president: First, policy measures are aimed at ensuring that what goals and priorities are set in each subject and that there are clear priorities. - Priority order. - Second, policy measures include formal analyses and assessments of the status of services and activities of the individual topic areas. Such analyses may, e.g. showing that there will be a reevaluation of the basis for a particular service or arrangement. A third is a decision made by policy makers about which way to achieve the desired goals. Here the cost, the impact, and the benefits of each one's efforts need to be considered and contrasted with their different factors. There's the cost-and-preservation analysis and the option analysis. The priority order, in turn, is added to the choice analysis, where the options are arranged in a certain order. Once the best solutions have been selected in the field of many operations of many solutions, they are also set in the right order to see which projects are most important and what other tasks are less important. On with the President's permission: Fourth, policy measures include the final development, defined and priorities of the analyses work done. Targets should be obvious, objective, and measurable. Special emphasis should be paid to define the quality of the service to be performed in relation to the amount of funds designed for its purpose and to specify when setting goals should be met. To improve the rate of success, goals need to be met and the results will have to be adjusted. This is very clear when you read the report. Yes, it is true that the laws such as this do not clearly indicate it. They specify the development and improvement of functions and responsibilities, timing, use of funds, etc. While they can certainly be achieved by a different system, it is noted in the report that the box does not eliminate the need to be comparable with the cost-benefit analysis and the choice of an option. Any possibility, I have no idea. There are a number of ways in which tasks are prioritised, which should include, how much cost analysis should be done, what should be advanced in the analysis of benefits and such factors. Still, the requirement is extremely clear. No matter what way to discuss the use of funds, to deal with responsibilities, timing, and the like - in order to meet the law must be made into some sort of cost analysis, profit analysis, choice analysis, priorities, and such. I have repeatedly criticized the U.S. Reconnaissance that in the 2019 federal account the government laws on government finance were carried out. I say it's wrong. They're not leaving after 20. legal on public financial policies regarding government policy. In the absence of cost analysis and non-fiction analysis, it is not possible to include the secretary's annual report and explain the benefits achieved by the trust provided by the General Assembly. When we cannot see what results were achieved with the resources given on the others and on these projects, e.g. to provide personal protection, we can't reevaluate anything. We're not learning anything from it. We can't do anything better next time. The annual reports, as they are conceited documents, allowing a minister to make up the gaps in order to say that using funds was absolutely fantastic. There are no criteria for success in the absence of cost analysis, profit analysis, choice analysis, and priorities. When it is missing, it is never possible to explain the benefits achieved by using the documents approved at the council. On the other hand, without such conditions, the council can never say that these funds are sufficient to achieve the standards of service that the Parliament also approved by the law, such as the Council. ... ina law of personal protection. A person's protection now says that ten employees were needed to care for the work that came into existence by personal protection. Do we know if that's true? Not really. On the other hand, if we look at the protection laws, there is no amazing conclusion at all. It's just a very likely result. But because we don't know all the basic presidents after all, this is and always will be the best guess. I find it a little boring that it's the best guess the Congress ever agreed on on budgets and budgets, financial planning: oh, it was so much last year. It went well last year, and then we're just gonna add a little price calculus on top of it, and next year it's gonna be similar. But when you start looking, for example. how the situation of the waiting lists is here, how the situation is on the charges of various counts, how long the waiting time is to reach and get conclusions according to the rights of such a lawsuit gives us, when waiting time is over a year at the county's company in the capital area because of a lawsuit in terms of contacts e.g., is that acceptable? No, under law, it may be a maximum of 12 months until the conclusion of the matter. The average is, however, a year and a half. I recall the case that took the longest time in over 1,000 days. That's three, four years. When we look at the consequences of the law we are making and the position of rights we are accepting against the financial resources that we deal with, we must ask: Is this really what we meant when we agreed to the law? Consider, for example, the psychological service discussed in the previous talk. Is this really what the Council meant when the law and the synopsis of psychological services were accepted? Or when the Protection Act was Accepted? If so, would it not be more honest that the law reflected it? It is the basis for rights. If the rights are hidden and demeaned by tailoring those institutions that handle the legal rights, it would be honest to make it clear and accessible in the law that the rights are not really so great, people should have to wait longer than 12 months, they have to wait one and a half years, two years after the result. We're here at a council. We're going to wrestle it through written inquiries. The response to written inquiries should be received within 15 active days, within three weeks, but the average value is much higher than that. It is repeated in asking for some time for answers to the council's inquiries. It is simply a matter of choosing the rights we have and part of the reasons why financial rights do not adhere to the rights. I have no doubt that there are much more efficient ways to do things. We've got lots of institutions all over the place, with lots of financiers, with a lot of lawyers, one and one in each institution. If it were just a more efficient use of the possibilities we have, perhaps we could better care for the rights given by the Council. The problem is reflected in the budgetary requirement. It literally shows how evil the official evolution of internal restructuring, internal innovation. They put 2% of them in the language field and say, "You're gonna get it done. There's no plan back. You haven't asked yet, " Where do you see the maintenance opportunities? ' Where is the maintenance of this field, within the Ministry, within the institutions of the Ministry, within the legal code of this Ministry? You do not start by asking: What if we were to reorganize such as to form a legal team of this topic field instead of having lawyers in each institution that, as a whole, might work everything in a much more efficient way, much more than each in its own way? Instead of being called after conservative ideas and projects, it's up to 2 percent, and we don't care how. We should not care how maintenance is provided, how maintenance looks because it can affect service, as it does at Lands Hospital, as the previous speaker did. There are changes in opening times and the like. We have to ask ourselves because the claimant can affect service in a way that the politicians don't want, and then she would say: " No, this is not a maintenance or maintenance project that we believe is helpful to law - abiding rights. Please select something else, bring a larger list of basics or ideas. Or, you may not find enough maintenance work at the moment. You need to do better basic work and research on how to achieve and here is a financial warrant, at least for not canceling this project this year. We're going in the wrong direction, and we're showing how badly we're getting into government business, that's as easy as it is. It's the responsor, the ostensity of funding, poor policy lacking cost-and-exploiting, the choice analysis, that shows us black and white how poor we are in an organization, how poor a financial organization is in the public. Then I mean the whole structure, I don't necessarily mean business of individual institutions. I'm talking about the organization in the back. Somewhere in here, I had a reference - it's way too much committee opinion, but the reason why it's so far is because there's so much to talk about. But I'm here taking examples of an institution that enforces certain laws. I'm sure she'll take care of it very well and in a very good way. Even though financial records have dropped by 25%, it reminds me, in the past few years, three or four years, it does the same work. Does it do as well as she did three years ago? I'm not gonna doubt it, she definitely will, let's say. How did that work out? Not an idea, has never seen any repercussive measures that explain how the institution managed to reduce the need and render the same service. We see this at an Iceland mall where there were simply 500 million cut off, but there was no change in service. We're having problems like this all over the place. Not necessarily because they are indiscriminate or are being worked by bad minds or things like that, but because there is no organization on how to handle government resources and government funds, nothing. Reassessments of expenses are mentioned, but they are hardly started. As long as we don't know what a legal project costs, we don't have any questions. Then we can't even ask: Why is the process that you're enforcing so complicated, even if the law does not necessarily require it? There may be reasons, other sides, laws, or something similar. If we knew this, we could ask: Can we make it more efficient in some way? So that we are not making unnecessary loops here, back and forth, so that a public citizen who is going to apply for strength or permission or something like that does not have to go to 30 different institutions to meet all the requirements. That's what they're doing, for example. with the so-called X-Road project, there is a partial reduction in the number of locations in the public system. It is a model from Estonia and other places, and it is finally under way. This would require a global crisis, a global epidemic of money, that was done in budgets earlier this year. It took something like that to take care of things. That's ridiculous. Reminds me of it here about the year when the job was squeezed and started to find some money. If so, you will have better tax research to give 800 million dollars. Why was this not done sooner? If we were so obvious and returned so much, why did we have to wait for a crisis to arise in order to take such action? I don't understand this kind of work. But the reason they're like this is because they don't have to be watched in an orderly way, so that, from time to time, they're not looking for additional items when it comes to a crisis, and we need to find some coin, run up to our hands and feet, and try to find ideas somewhere about how we can handle a project that we can get a few million to make the government account look above zero. It is public financial today, and that's why changing plans 2 are less complex than this, because the rest is just junk.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u64	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's carriage before the talk. I did not intend to come up here and make strong comments to his talk. I wouldn't have lasted the time, at the time we have an answer, to trace all that happened in this hourly speech. I'd like to mention, though, in the light of a word. A senator at the end, that I felt that he was completely lost by wording on the form and arrangement of public finances. I think the form we've adopted by government law has been a great improvement, and then I'm talking about the structure and organization and this cycle of policy-making. It has established financial counsel in its reviews. It is true that we can do much better, whether in control, organization, management, or management, or to improve our organization, and this will always be the case. It's steady work to do better tomorrow than today. That's just the way it is. And for 1,000 billion volumes, with a number of different topics and institutions and services to the citizens, that's just the project. I was just going to come into this context of it for a reason. A senator referred to and is part of this discussion of 20. ..... all of what is called national prosperity, sacrifice cost analysis, economic effect of failing to do something. Therefore, we have the council and the politics to determine our policy. The economists can tell us: This is not the cost of anything else. [[The president calls.]] But politics has to make policy decisions. However, I was going to give the senator a chance to ask me about a reserve.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u65	A respectable president. This is why I was discussing the importance of formalized environments. You can do better than that, but it would be better if at least you applied what has been determined. That's what I keep saying, starting at the beginning. First, draw out all available options to solve a particular problem. Consider, for example, the flow problem. What are the choices? Building more nursing homes, increasing nursing, other day-care, other types of arrangements, partnerships, I don't know what and what. There are many different methods, costs, and benefits. Maybe there's no one great solution. Maybe we need a mixture of all this. That is what the government is supposed to bring to the council, saying that to solve the problem we have in front of us, we need to make a little better about nursing, day - to - day care, and so forth. This is the amount, this will solve the problem. We never get that kind of information, that's what I'm complaining about. However, the law says we should have them. It has been said that we are still in the induction process. Other countries that adopted public financial law take five to ten years in the induction process, but now we have a five-year induction process on this and all the laws of the law to allow time to return and this, are finished. Now we have only a law on public financial matters that will follow, and if the law is, then we must apply it. They are not being followed, which means that we do not receive these basics or anything in exchange for what we would receive in the process of induction. Such induction procedures would include tell us that we did not qualify to meet certain requirements, but we could still fulfill them informally by obtaining this information. But there is no such thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u66	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I miss not having a question about the reserve, or an opportunity to discuss it. We can always talk about it later. 20th degree. has entered the responsible minister's domain of the language and the language categories that he hears. It shows that priorities must be made. Hv. A senator puts it in the suit that the law is not being carried out. There is no way to say that laws are not being carried out because they are setting priorities for causes of suffering and litigation. We can, for example. see clearly in the Commission article more part of how the priorities are displayed in the highest order. A government of the topic realms and litigation classes and of the individual scheme. Where I like it. A senator has a point where the analysis is behind the priorities. That's where we have to improve. I feel like I'm careful trying to do that. There, we have talked a lot about standards. We can talk about options, etc. so that we can always get accurate support for why one project is chosen and not for anyone else. Then we have a number of laws that form this, like the official shopping law, etc. I think I heard what. A senator says that Daffir is the ideal project, a cooperation project of PPP, and I agree with that. [[The president calls.]] It is a task that we have long ago been assigned to do and in this very way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u67	President. I also discussed the flow problem in the budget bill. It's in two places. On the one hand, the waiting period for nurses should be less than 90 days, and on the other hand, the construction of 60 nurses in the A year's city should be completed for 1.5 billion. In addition, there is something about improving the release of a nursing list and increasing home nursing by 250 million temporary transfers, which were to be run into a new home in Reykjavík, but it has been delayed to make use of that amount to cover what was to be done and will not be done. The question I'm left with is, am I going to solve this problem? I have no idea. Surely not, and especially not, because in the process of changing, more than 1.3 billion are required to solve the perfusion problem. This is what I'm talking about. It's not in the budget. This obvious problem, the flow problem that we have considered for many years on a financial committee, is hardly a matter of challenge to the budget. It is crazy that such coverage is missing one of the most obvious problems the health - care system has ever faced in hospital service. When the work is in such a way that it falls in, just for the weekend before this discussion, 1,350 million for renting here and there, so that more room can be installed that will solve the flow problem after all - we don't know if it's the right amount, if it's too high or too low, if it solves the problem. Likely, it will solve him, as is now said. [[The president calls.]] This is what I'm trying to explain that is the problem in a nutshell, it's just to guess. That's why it's all like this. That's why I say it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u68	Mr. President. First, I'd like to say good-bye from what. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, chairman of the budget board, for the work at the financial committee in the processing of this bill, which has been long and strict, as we say, and I want to thank him for having guided this work well and with dignity. All of us have been under a lot of stress, and thanks to this, we have achieved lasting success and even though we in the memory part may not be completely satisfied with the outcome, it is here that we are here on a very important matter in difficult times. Work on the budget for 2021 was carried out under circumstances that are very special, and they have seen an even greater degree of uncertainty about the nation's economic situation as a result of the virus epidemic. The levels of state funds are enormous, as are the increases in debt. Sadly, thousands of people are out of work and have crashed in our largest industry, our tourism. This uncertainty is paralleled even when the financial system and its collapse are viewed in 2008. Clearly, the bill indicates that the economy has suffered a massive shock. It even appeared. in the contributions of the big changes to the bill and the five budget bill this year. The extent of the conversion to the bill is such, or over 55 billion dollars, to a degree that almost a new bill can be viewed, and all evidence indicates that such extensive changes have not been made before. Nevertheless, the government's priorities in various fields are not successful enough for my success, and some groups of society that have been affected by the viral epidemic have been left behind. I'll get into more of that from now on. I'd like to say, though, that there have been positive results, and I'd like to mention that in this bill, some basic benefits and payments for child living have been raised and some social resources have been added to us in the central category. It is good to get people who are unemployed, such as the training program and are being helped to study by increasing both high school and university levels. All of this is important and, of course, we support it in the media. This year's debt level has deteriorated rapidly as a result of the virus epidemic and the growth of state funds is approaching a total of 270 billion dollars. According to a bill budget for 2021, 264 billion or 8.6% of GDP is expected. Taking into account a change at 2nd. The bill is straddled next year in terms of $318 billion or 10.4% of gross domestic product. The changes that are to be considered will be taken into account in terms of a large portion of the budget and about 2 billion dollars, so we are talking about a ratio of 320 billion. which, naturally, is an enormous amount of money. It was found at a meeting of legal committees with the Government Accounting that the state's debt is a concern. This is now a time when loans need to be paid back, and all government changes are, for example, the case. funded by borrowing. I have to say, Mr. President, I'm not sure it would have been so borrowed if it wasn't for nine months in the election. In addition, it is uncertain how to collect the standard of spending that was delayed beyond the year and that was one of the measures used for the viral epidemic, so that this year's decline is still uncertain and could increase. In addition, the fifth one will be placed here, and we will see if it will be added further, so that even if the cap is huge, it may increase. The government's proposals are expected to stop the debt collection in 2025, but the government has offered no suggestions on how it will be done otherwise, but it is assumed that the economy itself will rise up handsomely and debt will no longer grow as a percentage of land production. I hope it's all going to work out, we all hope it will. The increase in budgets between 2020 and 2021 is totally unsuspectable. This is a loan, and the secretary of finance confirmed in a letter to the budget board at the beginning of December that this increase in funds was totally unsuspectable. Of course, this is a concern and comes in addition to 230 billion dollars. the increase of budgets between 2017 and 2020, so we are still talking about huge amounts of money. If the travel industry recovers, it is considered a good chance for strong economic growth in the year 202023 that there will be no further trauma, but it will not be expected to take action that will be painful. It is clear that the government that takes over after the election, is now close to them, awaiting a very difficult task to pay off these huge debts. Hence, we say that it is of course very important that good resistance be gained and that it succeeds. Government operations campaigns for the viral epidemic of the year have been of great value to those to whom they were assigned. However, a number of people have come to my attention that many of these resources are complex and the application procedure is very time - consuming, and often even individuals and dictators who are simply asking for the help of professionals in order to apply for this strength. It has been shown that the person has applied for strength and sent in the application, followed by the day down in the text of the application form, it is obvious that the person was not entitled to apply, such as. The owners of these small enterprises have had to reimburse what they have applied for, and of course this has created a great deal of trouble. These are things that must be corrected, and in many cases the conditions that have been overcrowded and too strict and therefore not used as resources for them, despite the fact that the situation of these people is very difficult because of the viral epidemic. Thus, there are a number of factors in this process that could have been more successful and could have been more effective in preparing and implementing them. In other words, this may result in a lack of resistance as powerful as the community needs it, as has been, in my opinion, the expansion of the government's saving operations in many ways not been thorough and specific. I'm going to step up next to the Middle Party's adjustment proposals to the budget. The middle class proposes a 14-change proposal. We are the only class that has the wealth of suggestions based on property sales so that they do not increase on the basis of the huge wealth that has already gone into existence. And as I said before, all government proposals are funded by loan and loans, of course, must be paid back. Let me review the suggestions and first mention that one of our main proposals turns to older citizens. According to the bill, it is quite clear that the government is not interested in the interests of older citizens. It's just that it has to be said at the moment. This is the generation we owe much to, Icelanders, for the fine quality of life we live in today, and it is sad to think that the government should not look to this large group with a more positive attitude than it is done. Thus, we in the Middle East give high priority on meeting older citizens whom we would like to say they have left behind in the measures taken this year because of the viral epidemic. The suggestions turn to the fact that older citizens receive special dollars, tax-free remuneration at 70,000 bucks, just as microlouds, simply because of that, we're talking about the lowest three incomes of 10,000 people, that the least of which are at the lowest in debt and that we don't have a pension fund, we're living in the same slacker and difficult terms as micromans who now received a single payment that we in the Central Party support and, of course, celebrate. In addition, we stress that the growth in pension is immediately implemented during the new year and that it is in accordance with the biographer contract, and there will be an increase for each individual of the 15,750. which includes the National Association of older citizens. Called after and stressed his review of the bill, and I'll get to more afterwards. A third suggestion by the Central Party that turns to older citizens means that employment does not interfere with pension income. In addition, we make adjustments in the way that the insurance fees go down further. We have a suggestion to face the agricultural economy further, which has been experiencing severe problems today as a result of the virus epidemic, an accumulation of meat supplies, and a lack of sale, and then agriculture has had to contend with the import of agricultural products, but there has been a failure to allow them to have moved into much more than authorised by contracts. In addition, we stress that the U.S.A. receives additional support. We stress that there will be an attack on the social security network we've already spoken for here. We focus on increasing drug surveillance through customs. In addition, we stress work contracts, and we stress the work contracts of those who are unemployed and especially looking to Southnes in those areas. As I told you before, we've proposed 14 adjustments, and I'm going to take a closer look at them, but I'm going to go back to older citizens. It is unmistakably, Mr. President, that the benefit of the elderly who have least among their hands is in no way consistent with the general standard of living in the country. The ones with no money but the pensions of social security are the worst. This is what I mentioned earlier, they're in the same place as the poor people who have the worst in this regard and then have been corrected, or now by special remuneration. Pension levels have steadily subsidized. The government covenant says that the position of those who are walking in their way needs to be made firm. These include older citizens who have limited or no rights from pensions and who do not engage in paid jobs. In such cases, most people have to rely solely on the pension of social insurance and are many of them in a public tenet or even in debt. This group also includes those who have not earned full social security rights for living abroad, e.g. immigrants. It is emphasized in the government covenants to meet the group that is not being made. The number of older citizens who are concerned about their financial situation is increasing by more than 30%. It's coming even. conducted in a survey that was recently conducted by Reykjavíkurburg, the Ministry of Health, and the older citizens'National Association. The elderly citizen's money has provided practical suggestions on how to improve the quality of the worst stocks in this group. For those suggestions, thanks. The proposals were presented in the budget work before 2019 C.E. The administrative part has thus had plenty of time to deal with them, but unfortunately, the government has not seen a reason for this. According to OECD figures, there is a lower percentage of national production and wages in Iceland for the payment of pension than in countries such as Britain, the Netherlands, Denmark, and Sweden. Icelanders generally go to pensions later than any other country's population, and there's much more and more involved in the elderly than in the rest of the country. In this country, there is a 50% employment program, which is only about 20% of the age group in Sweden. Comparison with the above countries shows that Iceland differs from an active pension age. Icelanders usually take a pension one to two years after a public pension date is reached, but in the other four countries, people usually go to pension some time before the official age is reached. Thus, Icelanders usually spend far less years than usual in other countries. Surely this should be a reason why the Icelanders amend older citizens. Thus, payment from both parts of the pension system usually begins in the country later. The average country's age is lower, so the public system's pension load is still very low in comparison. This underscores the fact that governments have the means to do good with older people. This is the generation that we owe most to today's well - being. A generation that broke free from poverty through hard work and hard work. A generation now asking merely for justice and the opportunity to live in a decent way. In the history of the government, the minimum income and the pension of social insurance to the elderly have been continuously reduced, as has been conclusively demonstrated by many reviews of the budgetary bill. According to the complex 69 C.E. par. Social security legislation should take into account pay development when determining the amount of social security. In recent years, the decision has been based on a forecast of a budgeted average increase under collective agreements, which has led to the fact that within the past ten years, there have been 91.5% of the minimum pensions to 75% in the last ten years. Cumulative relativeity of these years has become 18%. Because of this trend in the elderly, dissatisfaction and anger are increasing. An elderly citizen is advised that further efforts to stop him or her are immediately being made to unwind the past few years. According to the biographer contract, the next year's raise will not be determined by percentages, but will be the same number at all, $1,750. above all the pay bags, low as high. It is the general process of earning money that makes it reasonable that the increase in pension and fairness will take into account. 3rd smaller things it suggests changing the bill. So if we're to cover 69 p.m., it's going to have to be raised by the same dollar. He'd take them out of 256,800 bucks. per month at 272.550 U.S., which replaces the estimated 3.6% in the budget. The older citizen's national relationship has shown that considering the job situation, this would have a positive effect on the labour market to reduce the loss of pension due to payment from pension funds, e.g. by uniting the current holiday limit to one general or 125,000 k. This would make it easier for older ones to give up their jobs and to get out with younger ones. Older citizens have not been part of the viral epidemic as much as others have. The central category transports change proposals for the bill that older citizens who live under the lowest terms receive special tax-free remuneration at 70,000 dollars. The amount is the same as in the year for micromasks. The damage done to senior citizens and pensioners has to stop. We're focusing on this in the Central Party. The damages made to social security to pension workers have been high in recent discussions. The elderly are the least - growing members of society. People 67 years of age and older are now about 45 thousand. About 10 to 15 thousand people are heading toward a speed - bearing goal of entering this group. We're talking about that soon it'll be at least Sixty thousand people who are actively involved in government policy on loss in the immediate and long term. The arrangement is simple. The financial level of a pension is set annually. It's now 256,789 k. per month. If people make money, these pensions will be reduced to a rule. These are the damages. An elderly person who wants to improve his employment may have 100,000 dollars. a month before you lose your pension. After that, 45 bars are taken. of the pension for every 100 bucks. ... he earnsit. This is the impairment. Then there's the IRS, his intermediate level is about 37%. Professor Ragnar Árnason has shown that when it comes to restrictions and taxes, it is a single person after 27 k. per 100 k. ... he earnsit. If he is living together, he stays at 35 different points. of 100 K. In comparison, an out-of-state high-payer at the best age of 54 bucks. of last 100 k. ... he earnsit. Everyone sees there's no fair in this. All you have to say is, Mr President, is that older people are in the line of fire when it comes to taxing for work. There is no group of people facing others as peripheral taxes as that of the elderly. This system of super taxation includes violations of an unskilled rule in human society, that each person is invited to improve his job with more work if he wants to and is able to do so. All humans are endowed with inborn self - preservation efforts. Sadly, self - preservation, as it were, will not be allowed according to the current arrangement, as I have been tracking. If a person gets paid from a mandatory pension fund, social security pensions are similarly impaired. The cuts start after the first 25,000. A pension fund. People are under obligation to be in a pension fund and to pay dues each month. In the early 1980's, the Pension Fund set up by collective agreements was to ensure an improvement in terms of upper life compared to those guaranteed by social security with basics, an improvement in terms of life. The law to pay for a pension fund included a promise of improvement. This promise is fundamental in an Icelandic society and was respected for 40 years. All this time, it seemed that there was no way to limit the basic insurance policy of pension income. It was not until the collapse of 2009 that it was decided on the side of the government of the United States and on the left greens in this matter. It lasted until 2013, and it collapsed. Reversal took place in 2017. One size, pensions, replaced basic pensions and income insurance, and social security spending was cut down since March 1, 2017. By this decision, the promise was broken that compulsory membership and payment in a pension fund would improve the benefit of older people beyond what basic social security guarantees. The decision made by the General to reduce the basic insurance pension money involved complete confidence in the remuneration of pay paid by the law to pay the pay paid in the pension fund on the basis of a 1969 collective agreement. The damages to public insurance for pensions include violations of promises, promises that must be fulfilled. That's what we want from the Central Party, and that's what we suggest. By breaking the promise, the state fund saved over 34 billion dollars in 2018. with a decrease in the legal payment of a pension, according to the social minister's response to Ólafur Ísleifsson's son's inquiry at a recent assembly. The plagues include all of us, or almost 95% of the older people. If it is undefeated to join this reserved social group, it is necessary to pay for about half of the social security fees for pensioners. In this light, why Iceland is the lowest average of OECD countries in the financial budget for social security. There is no charge in this situation that if the contributions of the affected pensioner are counted as being in the middle of the OECD population. This system balance of government's funds must be handled in a way other than unjust curses on older people and other social security agencies. I'm going to move on to the unemployment rate, Mr. President, now on the highest level and it's a great social ill, as we all know it, and very important that we succeed in achieving it as fast as we can and as soon as possible. Unfortunately, employment market prospects are not good, as the situation today is mainly attributed to the virus epidemic, and there are signs that the situation is actually darker than when it began work. And, of course, it is also sobering to consider whether the Federal Bureau of Economics should have been ignored, which came out on November 1, rather than the Habitat's project that came on October 1 because the UN Bank predicts are darker, both in terms of unemployment and economic growth. Unfortunately, the prospects are not good. Of course, we hope to be fulfilled in a new year and at the time of vaccination here. It has to be said, as it is, that these unemployment figures are naturally striking. Some 25,000 people were out of work by the end of October, according to employment registration. In Southnes, unemployment is 22% and twice as high as on national levels, and we in the Central Party propose a change in the bill for special support to Southnes due to a high unemployment rate. Bear in mind that as far as unemployment is concerned, governments have to strengthen the work environment of Icelandic companies as they can be able to keep their employees under difficult circumstances, and hopefully they can control more. Icelandic companies need to be supported because of rising pay costs and avoid further loss of employment. Icelandic tax returns are high in international comparison and are now second in the north countries behind Norway. In an effort to close the budget at that time, companies were raised after the 2008 financial collapse. However, these tax changes have been taking place ever since. The government's failure to cut down the insurance bill has been severe, but it is one of the largest financial standings in the state's budget according to the bill. High insurance costs are worst for companies where pay and pay-or-remuneration are largely expensive. A high insurance bill is the most competitiveness of these enterprises when it comes to improving Iceland's competitiveness and abilities toward other companies, e.g. Foreigners. In recent years, the competition of international enterprises towards foreign rivals has just gotten worse because of the greater international cost of foreign currency. For the 2008 economic collapse, the bail bill was 5.34%, but it was promoted to 8.655% following it. The increase was thought of as a temporary operation to cover a huge increase in expenses due to sudden unemployment. ASI supports the return of an increase in the insurance bill. The default insurance bill is currently 4.90% and will be temporarily reduced to one year or in place in 2021 and during the pressures of public pay in 2022 due to earnings of 2021, from 4.90% to 4.65%. So it'll be a total of 6.10%. The fact is, the tax paid has increasingly been used to finance other financial expenses. The pay is calculated as a percentage of the salary paid by the company to its employees. The more dollars the company pays, the more money it will be paid in terms of insurance. The higher the insurance bill, the more expensive the employee is for his company. The Motor Party's proposals focus on lowering it further to build companies because they are the key to the resistance we need to make the most of it. Granted, it is very important to face those who have lost their jobs, but we also need to do all we can to keep more people from losing their jobs and the benefits of low insurance costs, and especially when unemployment is high. Mr. President. I'm going to come up next to my rural society and the uncertainty of their financial situation as a result of the virus epidemic. Clearly, they have suffered a huge loss of income and have faced a large financial challenge. Crashing of tourism and the secondary articles has caused a large decrease in the number of jobs and decreases in the severity of the parent population. The Union of Icelandic rural society says that government counter measures due to the effects of the Korean virus epidemic are inadequate, and this is essentially a crisis of rural society. Their tail is expected to be about 20 billion. Because of income loss and increased expenses. This year and next, about 50 billion dollars are needed. In the business. This is a concern because of the role the rural community plays in the welfare of individuals, and during the predominant year, there are many who rely on rural communities when the unemployment period ends. These expenditures have greatly increased in rural areas. The union in the capital area has called for increased support for rural society in the form of a direct, unrefunded budget from the state fund. It's coming even. clearly, the organization's review of the budget bill. The review also shows that the state funds in other parts of the North support the rural communities and the public services they render to their citizens. I noticed that in the member body of the greater part, it is said that this is not possible to be compared, the rural areas in Iceland and rural communities in other parts of the North countries. I don't agree with this. If Sweden's example is taken, then the Swedish state gives public donations that are paid to the rural community after an appeal, as well as pay special donations for various types of extra expenses. The Finnish government's support consists of nearly 75% of the loss of income and the expenditure of the local community. Due to 2021, about 85% of the estimated impact on the operation is required. We see, then, that the rural communities in the North are much better equipped to cope with the problem because in these countries, the State has far more to meet them. This may have been attributed to an equation fund, but contributions to it have been impaired and uncertain in general, especially because of the possible legal procedures of the city of Reykjavík against the fund. If a government fund is not to be met in a special way - and there is no sign in the bill - it is clear that it must be financed by loans in order to have a legal service. This means that their payment capacity is reduced because of interest costs and needs to be used for economic management, which will then take back on the services of the population, school management, etc. It's all chain-acting. I have to say, it's disappointing that the government is not going to face the locals in any way. There's no sign of it. It was, of course, a relatively small amount in meeting the rural population that suffered the greatest loss of income due to a fall in travel. But this is not enough, and many rural communities face a major challenge. Next time, I'm just gonna move on to the agriculture. Mr. President. The situation in agriculture, especially meat market, is not good, and the managers are actually smiling. These have been identified by the main interest groups of farmers and businesses in agriculture. There are a few reasons. Of course, I rejoice that the government will meet the sheep farmers and producers of beef, but especially sheep farmers, to over 700 million. K. I hope that's enough, and I welcome that decision. However, it has long been drawn to my judgment and should have come long ago. The serious consequences of the virus epidemic are evident in the agriculture sector, and especially in travel - service failures have had a major impact on agricultural products. There has also been a powerful influence on government control procedures. An increase in the import of abroad, tolls in unreaded areas - a very specific issue that must be reached and has been a major blow to agriculture. I encourage the government to speed it up as much as possible and to investigate that matter. It is natural to wonder that agriculture needs to take on such a unique matter. Failure to deal with imported agricultural products has resulted in significant harm to agriculture. Inland agricultural production did not enjoy the protection that law and international agreements were to ensure. The rise in agricultural import has narrowed agricultural production in the country and in the United States. Sales of domestic meat, horses, pigs, cattle and lambs have been drawn together about 10% in the past three months, since the same time last year, and a lot of supplies have been accumulated, e.g. In milk protein, and meat supplies rise both in farmers' livestock and in stores of slaughter holders. In addition, it is anticipated that the employment and innovation agencies advertise all unchanged tocoupte due to the import of agricultural products from the European Union, although only by the changed format, but we in the Central category have strongly emphasized that this directive must be postponed, that there will be no such invitation as the current situation. When the European Union is going to help farmers, it is a very special fact that agricultural products are being imported in the midst of these vast meat markets. I am absolutely convinced that if the European Union were in our position, they would have shut down all import simply because the market is overcrowded. This invitation has to be delayed. I think it is quite clear, Mr. President, that unless the measures are taken to prevent more meat from entering the overcrowded market, it will lead to collapse of meats to the manufacturer's watch leading to chain action and we will see bankruptcy in this article. There are a lot of supplies in milk protein, 55% higher than at the same time last year. This amount corresponds to an increase of 15 million gallons [15 million L] of milk. The cost of buying, saving, and having such quantity is high when it comes to meats and dairy products. We feel that further support is needed for farmers, and that is why we will move special adjustments to further support agriculture from the virus epidemic. I'm just gonna come up to the Central Party's proposal for a change in radio charge that the proposed increase in radio charge is not going to come up. The motion is normally in line with a proposal for action made by the Central Party for the next few days for the change in radio charge. It will be further explained when it will be submitted, but the proposal is in order to ensure that the Council of Education and Culture is in line with a financial and economic minister to alter the provision of radio fees. The change is clear that it is permitted to include up to one third of the budget in the media's choice. It's logical to follow this change in the budget. There has been quite a change in the hospital during the discussion, and there is no diminishing requirement for the hospital. We agree that the Landspians are the largest and most important health institutions in the country and are to appoint outstanding employees who carry out unselfish work each day and often under difficult circumstances, and this has certainly been demonstrated in the battle against the Korean epidemic during the past few months. A regular discussion of the hospital's problems has been made, and now, as mentioned earlier, of the accumulated problem of previous years. Each year's Hall is transported from year to year. In turn, small variations become more difficult. The economic problems of the Hospital have many roots. In this year's trip, it is worth considering whether to go along with the hospital trying to reach these cumulative angles because we simply need all the resources we can make in the fight against the epidemic, and many measures have been put on to cope with the viral epidemic. Now the hospital is fired at about 1 billion bucks. A small amount, but it would be necessary to obtain money. The point is, the hospital and its services are growing faster than budgets are expected, despite the expected real - life growth of about 1.8% each year. The hospital has taken on new projects that have not been followed. Then we're talking about the so-called efflux problem. I am happy, though, that the bill proposes a special amount to increase the number of nurses who will then begin to strike the flow problem, which is a great challenge and includes hospital stays in nursing homes. These are expensive resources. Temporary contributions to the change of the majority of the sector to increase the number of nurses by 100 are steps in the right direction, but a lasting solution is to be found. Interpretations of collective agreements have been made that have been difficult to assess, including a labour agreement with physicians in 2015. The agreement was good for the health system, but cost factors were underestimated. The hospital has not been funded to cover the total cost of this contract. So there are some of these issues that have caused the hospital to deal with financial problems. We all know that it is urgent to have health care professionals working properly, making sure that they are cared for at any given time. One of the biggest challenges is the hospital's carer. The health authorities have not produced any plans to deal with them in the future. And now the hospital is standing in front of maintenance measures due to business compromise. Governments must have a realistic discussion with the Land Hospital for Solutions. Bear in mind that the Landspians are primarily an emergency hospital. It is the very nature of the ministry that the hospital provides for it to be unpredictable. For this reason, it is not suitable to be on any level. Emergency receptions do not shut down when funding is over. We need more flexibility here. We've been talking about it within the Middle Party. During the next years and decades, the health system is growing with increasing life spans. If it is intended to ensure excellent health care for all, the health system must become much more efficient. A vivid example of the problem of the system is that patients are sent to foreign countries for measures three times as much as they would cost in Iceland. Naturally, it is also the ideological policy of the government that seems to have the upper hand in having little contact with the private supply of health care, which is a very sad course because it primarily attacks the patients. It would mean little for the government to point to the administration of the Land Hospital and the governor of the Land Hospital to point to the state. The nation grows old, which means extra pressure on the system. Older people 80 years of age and older need the highest health care. Furthermore, new health - care techniques have moved ahead, and the cost has increased. Governments must face the problem and ensure the long - term funding of the most important health facility in the country. I'm going to establish only one of the Central Party's micro-organization proposals. We want to increase the number of so - called jobs with support. We need to work hard to strengthen the potential for disabled people and disability in a public labour market. In this country, we have less employment initiatives than in countries we best compare with, and the range of recycling is much lower. In most countries OECD has high levels of government expenditures due to disability. A high proportion of micro-organization workers and their high financial expenditures prevent growth of the economy and reduce the workforce in a labour market. Many OECD countries have revised the microenergy and support systems with the aim of increasing activity and participating in individuals with impaired employment skills. These countries mentioned the situation so that if nothing was to be done, the community would not have afforded the welfare services that would be needed to build up in the health and education system as well as the lack of social support for which there is no opportunity for participation in a labour market. In general, the poor live in a state that is far less than the standard of living that goes and takes place among the people, and poverty is more common in poverty than in other groups. Very few leave the disability pensions back to work. Thus, those who go to the disability pension can easily be caught in the trap of poverty and worse quality of life for the future. How important it is, then, that we take decisive action to increase the number of people in the country and increase the participation of individuals with impaired employment skills. Official cooperation with employers in this regard needs to increase their responsibilities. Some countries in OECD have built up a special stimulating system for professional drivers in this field. One of them is the payment of pay from employees with impaired ability. This allows employers to receive a certain amount each month of money with each employee who will then be paid the standard salary from the employer. This arrangement is available in the country via the Labour Organization, but unfortunately this format is very narrow because of the lack of funds. Thus, the Icelandic labour market has little or nothing to do with people with impaired skills, and it is very important to create micropigs for real opportunities to do business. I think they're all interested in it, and in that regard, we in the Central Party have considered it very respectable to consider the implementation of a tax charge to employers who meet a certain level of employees with limited ability. Through work with support, those who are employed with limited employment because of mental or physical disability will be helped to find employment in a general labour market. This is a effective way that involves broad support for them to be able to do the work at their new job. Exploitation contracts are remuneration agreements with employers who have hired people with reduced employment skills and are designed to increase the potential of jobseekers with reduced skills to gain employment at a general labour market. Thus, there is an important option to consider for those with impaired ability. In the Middle East, we make adjustments to the budget bill in order to increase the number of work contracts made with employers over whom the employment agency has supervised, both full-time and part-time jobs, and I think that this should make much more of the opportunity to make a microblation possible. I just want to include more suggestions from the Middle Party than I think time is running out. I'm glad there's a way of making money up for the so-called NAPA contracts that are involved in the affairs of the disabled. That is a very reasonable way of handling the present situation, and the central category supports it. In addition, I'd like to mention that we're making a transition proposal to give money to an tax investigator to counteract the ills of our community, i.e. The social security number. Sadly, governments have failed. The Minister of Justice presented a bill that ran upstairs, and it is very unfortunate that included trying to overcome a social security number. We stress in the Middle East that the Tatteur will be enabled to work on the disappearance of this lesion in our community. In addition, we make adjustments to make a special contribution to customs because of the Narcotics. Sadly, there has been an increase in the intensity of the products offered and the importance of supporting the drug activities of customs so that research and elimination can be done. In addition, we stress the increase in funding to the U.S.A. and suggest that we add money to the needs of the U.S.A. work. We in the Middle East require a management requirement because this is once the case, so the book has, unfortunately, been blown out in the history of this government, and there is a real need for counseling in the scheme of things. We'll make some adjustments to add the extra funds to forestry, etc. I just want to encourage those who want to study the suggestions of the Middle Party rather to study the committee, which is available online, and to say this good for now, a respectable president, end of time, but will come in later on in this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u69	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. I want to thank you, too, the highest. President for a generous speaking class. It is remarkable that the session will not last, so something must be done in government matters. I'm going to take one out of a talk. It's just the comparison between the whole OECD-lands of the pension system and how we don't get out well in the comparison when the value created is laid down. I'm asking, "What is this ratio calculated as a what?" A senator referred to him? Because, at the same time, there are very many covariates that affect how these proportions come out. I'm asking you, what kind of ratio is it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u70	Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Like what? A senator mentioned earlier, and I came into this country, Iceland, is the lowest of all government funds for social security among OECD countries. Of course, this is a concern. Now I do not know exactly how this report is available, i.e. what is the underlying basis, but the conclusion is this. I don't think there's any other way to take a report from OECD. They are well - known for their careful work. Hv. A senator asks me to elaborate on how this is calculated. I can't do that right now. Senator. But I can certainly only refer to the report, and I'm ready to discuss why. A senator in that context. Surely, it is important to have proper comparisons. From what I have considered, I cannot help but see that I am comparing the same things together. Humans can always have different meanings about that. The point is, it's undefeated. A senator, that this particular social group, which is older citizens, really needs to pay themselves about half of the social insurance paid to a pension fund. If we compare what man has to his hands by tax and by limitations, it is quite clear that this group differs from other employees. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u71	V.E.G. President. Thanks for the answer. I didn't come up here in an attempt to push something or drive a sledgehammer. A senator with a hole. On the contrary, I'm very into being professional, like,. A senator spoke in an excellent way and referred to a comparison. We are pleased to consider the opinions of international institutions on various matters that we are doing. I haven't seen the exact report, but I've seen some numbers. At times, the total cost is placed in a denominator's numerator and found out the proportion. Now we need to examine the ages of nations, and we are quite young. As you look at the budget side of the topic field, it is 93 billion in 2021 and has increased by 17.5% since 2017. I know, what. Senator, behind all numbers there are people. I'm just trying to keep the discussion with the figures and the financial issues in that context. We have many actions in which we try to meet these people and improve their benefits. There is no senator at the Council who does not want to improve the standard of living. That's our job. I have a feeling we'd need to examine this comparison based on the interaction between the social security and the pension system. This is also different among nations. You have seen the number, but the comparison is that. Then we have to go through it, and I'm quite ready to look at it with a bang. Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It is quite clear, and I traced it in my speech, that we will start a pension later in life than the nations we compare with, like the other North countries. It should be in itself that we can do better with the group we've been talking about, especially the older citizens and those who are starting a pension. This is one variable that should be included in this comparison. A senator rightly mentioned. Of course, it is very important to be compared with the right things. I think it's possible to say that this report is very good, but it's only to expect from this institution. The bottom line is that. A senator, it's clear, and I've traced it in my speech, that this government hasn't shown by any actions that she intends to meet an older citizen. We'll see that in this bill. However, if we compare those in the lowest income of older citizens who have it relatively low in pensions, with those who are also in low pensions, they are being treated with a monopolies that are thankable and necessary. At the same time, these lowest tenths cannot be given any special payment. I say, what's the point? Yeah, you're talking about the lowest level of income, but there are two others who are just above who are not here yet, okay? Senator. [[400 million.]] I think it's just that people are obviously not interested in looking to this group that's very big and we have a lot to thank for. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u73	A respectable president. I'm about to slide into this hour with a phone book. I am not used to giving a written talk. I'm waiting for the highest. One not sweating over it because it's going to be in a really large print for this woman with a visual acuity. But here, I'm measuring up the Committee's section 4 of the budget. We're talking about the budget, the best public and the largest bill of every year from the legislature. Starting reading, a respectable president. The Covid-19 epidemic has changed completely on terms of the state's budget. While expenses have increased, government funds have greatly added up. We are now at a crusade where it is clear that next year's budget will play a key role in the restoration of the economy. The government's actions determine the outcome. All too many Icelanders were passed through total demolition after the 2008 financial collapse. There government management was characterised by the building of a armored city for capitalism, while the land's homes were paid by currency. Then it became clear what will be the result when rulers prefer to set their life - saving activities in behalf of financial forces rather than the people of the country. The 2008 collapse experience taught us how the cutout in the wake of the economic crisis suffered the poorest and in what way a covert inflation wiped out the property and homes of thousands of Icelanders. The mistakes then made must never be repeated. Next year's budget must put the people in first place, talk about lost opportunities, and costly mistakes. In Iceland, shortly before Easter, there was a growing number of protective measures after the growth of Covid-infected individuals. The people showed what they really are inside. Her attitude and unflagging self - sacrificing spirit, as well as her diligent efforts, made it more difficult to control the epidemic. By May the virus had nearly been eliminated in Iceland. Can you imagine? And we had a great summer, just like everybody remembers. At that point, all emphasis was to be placed on keeping the virus away from the country. That's at least what the woman standing here has been proclaiming from the very first time. Actually, I've been proclaiming it since a month before the first person was diagnosed with Covid in Iceland that we were allowed to be free within the country, but I took action on the border. However, the government decided to relax and to restart the import of the virus and on June 15 of it. began to flow tourists into the country again. Of course, the primary objective was to meet the challenges of tourism. Cross-border differences were required to ensure that Covid-infected people would not distribute the virus within a country, but the mistake soon appeared as we all know it. Since then, the virus has not been harnessed as it had succeeded after its first wave. Last summer, the virus was being used by the health authorities. The result was disastrous for the entire population. Economically provided funds are made clear in the government's financial laws by 2021. The so - called third wave of the epidemic that hit Icelandic society in the fall would never have had to, never, ever. Everyone should know that the crown virus does not come out of nowhere. It is simply moved into the country through the border. So from the outbreak of an outbreak, the government was in hand to protect us from the spread of Covid-19 as it really has become. The budget in 2021 would certainly look better as figures on paper if the border had been kept closed except for all the necessary traffic. Our society was walking today in a routine of no or very few commandments and bans. Compared to today's situation, we would be free in all places. We would not be negligent about celebrating the sacred Christmas by normal, natural means in the arms of family and friends. Instead, currency flows to the foreign Internet, food traders collect debts, shops are in danger of sitting with warehouses full of Christmas merchandise, unemployment is growing by phase with the right problem for everyone, and government funds are collecting debts. While most people hope to succeed with the appearance of a vaccine against the virus, there is uncertainty about the future. This failure of the government during the war with the virus will cost taxpayers hundreds of billions of dollars. Then there will be no payment for all the suffering of financial tragedies, nor will the human sacrifices made by the common people, who are always in a crisis that includes broken homes and other social problems of various means, to free the loss of those who have died from Covid-19. The bill for financing continues to follow the policy of requiring government agencies for the maintenance of business. The maintenance strategist now represents 2% apart from health and aging institutions. It has a holding phrase of 0.5%. But everyone needs more donations. This is a problem. - Honorable President. Now I'm in trouble with the phone book. - These standards of social action and tax increases could reduce the recovery process. A positive result is that solidarity prevails to prevent extensive cuts in public service. They must be careful not to starve public institutions that are in dire need of help. However, it is surprising that in this year's trip now, in this massive crash we are dealing with today, we should have a permanence requirement, e.g. Health institutions. It is, in effect, pure indistinguishable. Let us hope that the restoration of the economy will take less time than would expect. Even the most optimistic projections expect to increase in economic growth next year. Whether it is predicted by the Secret Service or the Haust Office does not quite agree, but there is expected to be an increase in economic growth over the next year, up to 3%. We must hope for the best. This includes ensuring that government funds will be used systematically to reverse increasing unemployment and worsening economic forecasts. Therefore, it is agreed here in this committee opinion that under these unique circumstances it is wise to bridge the gap between earnings and repay with a trust fund. Looks like... - Wait a minute. It's getting a little complicated. It's better to talk without a sheet, I have to admit it, and wear it all in my head. I think I just turned the whole thing upside down, a respectable president. It's what it is. A revised financial policy enables us to see an increase in flexibility. The range of that policy was increased to cover both brighter and darker scenarios. Sadly, updated economic forecasts indicate that we will be dealing with the blackest forms. This has been observed by all interviewers who have established a financial committee. Actually, there is a problem everywhere. - It's the real worst thing to do when I turn it all upside down like this. That's it, though. - The government has taken extensive disease prevention measures within the country that have led to unprecedented recession in a number of employment practices that have had little or nothing to do with the tourism industry. Then this crisis is not localized. It reaches every country, and the epidemic has spread worldwide, as we know. As soon as globally disease prevention measures are over, we can expect traveling services to return to justice. At the beginning of the epidemic, it was predicted that the contractions would be V-shaped and that the economy would rise from the sea and recover in a relatively short time. However, because the virus has been more effective and has become more hopes than expected, it looks as if tourism will not recover until some year after. In view of all fairness, however, the present crisis, unlike previous economic events, does not result from overinvestment, vaccination, or economic error. Its origin and cause are the Korean virus that has caused the Covid-19 pandemic and not economic government here at home or anywhere else. The enemy is an invisible virus, which I have only often called the fourth world war because we have not known how to conquer it until now. And it's a pleasure, and it's just the best news you've heard in the year that we're having a vaccine. In fact, the expectation of the matter is according to the fact that we shoot all foxes at the ass and get out of it until we had no idea. This crisis isn't local. It's just the way it is. But the government is responsible for its actions against the nation, for it is in fact moving Iceland's highest account in Iceland to deal with. - Honorable President. I'm thinking about asking you to give me one minute if I could leave the platform to try to find out what I was going to do here. May I?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u74	No, it's not...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u75	Is that better with all the rules? Because I have an hour in my talk, I must not attend my talk, since I clearly do not have it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u76	No, we can't... This is not in harmony with rules. President now thinks he knows what he's doing. A senator has more or less in his head as usual.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u77	Yes, it is, but it was supposed to be so super organized and cool for me right now. Let us see how this works. Let's see. This is where we were being reasonable, let's take a look at it here. It's in my room. - I was going to mention that a revised financial policy assumes that next year's state funds would be around 9% of GDP. Now, however, it looks like 10.5% of the hook is going to be enough to allow for an increase in tail space within an uncertain financial policy, and this is the military cost that is headed for us to relax on the line and to jump this summer in the fight against the virus. The point now is that the government must, in effect, be fully responsible for this against the nation. - But now I may have some really brand new stuff. Let's take a look, Mr. Honorable President. It's no fun to do this unless something's going on in the platform. You can't let anyone fall asleep, Mr. Honorable President, when you're giving such a long talk. Where were we now? Now let's talk about the keeping of the budget. - I think I just ran over it at the other place. I'm not going to do it again. Of course, the short case regarding the requirement of living is that we need to avoid the problem of health care institutions. It's absolutely the last note. As a result, a 4th - century smaller project with a change in proposal means that the total debt of the Land Hospital will simply be wiped out. In that institution we have an amazing problem that has not been created least because they have not even been able to write off those who are no longer sick but who are at ease but are part of a group of elderly people who had no place to go to be expelled from the hospital. These are some of the most expensive insurrections that can exist, the need to have dozens of individuals, older citizens, tied in at a Land Hospital ◯ College hospital, instead of having resources for them at home. The land hospital is far from the only government agency involved in subfundation. A report published in January 2019, showed that because of the lack of funds, a fishing clinic's surveillance capacity is severely impaired. This includes: read that there has been a 24% reduction in surveillance between 2008 and 2017. Then the prosecution and the police were also serious. There have been a number of cases where serious sexual and violent crime cases have been reduced or even dropped due to the delay in reporting charges since the beginning of the investigation. Happily, there was an increase in funds in this series of languages, and the staff was expanded to settle the accumulated issues. Nevertheless, in many cases subfundation led to legal action. Too long after the problem was clear and until action was taken. This is made clear in a Persian protection comment on the financial bill how the problem is ignored each year. Personal protection points out that because of the induction of new Agency regulations, it is under pressure to increase significantly. - We know this, except for all the costs that have fallen on companies at tens of hundreds of millions. K. - New cases rose significantly after recent new rules. And now listen: The population jumped, from nearly 200 cases in 2017 to 2,415 cases in 2018. The number of cases for payment has continued to increase. This is because funds have not been sufficient for more projects. It is a ongoing problem with the funding of the Kingdom stocks that as the number of projects increases, they are not helped to meet the increase in their financial needs. The cost of the nation's failure to finance public surveillance and public service is far greater than the cost of financing. The road system is e.g. Consider an example. In the wake of the collapse, and then I'm talking about the 2008 economic collapse, the need either to delay in our pavilion system or thus, by inexpensive measures that later led to further damage. Today we are trying to fix ways that were not properly maintained during the years that followed. No doubt, many accidents were attributed to maintenance of roads was lacking. The problem is that it may not appear until the damage is done to us what it really is worth when public funds are stored up. Sadly, there is no room to resolve this problem adequately at this time. But there are times to come, counsel. Yet, as I have said before, immediate action is needed where the problem is the greatest and that is the cumulative tilt of the Land Hospital. Now I'm just going to step back to the local states, which are many of which are really hard at the moment. During the past few decades, the State has given its rural communities a huge task and increased their responsibilities toward its citizens. Farmers care for their own social services, basic schools and nurserys, services to disabled people, and aging services, along with other assignments. Nevertheless, rural communities cannot earn money in the same way as government funds. Their resources are few when income is combined or when expenses increase. In these materials there was a slight increase in the time of the Covid-19 event, but now the end page has increased and the situation has become completely unacceptable. While rural communities are expected to employ themselves, none of them should be assigned a legal service without ensuring concomitant means of financing that service. The union of state and rural society signed at the beginning of October of the month guaranteed rural society an increase of 4.3 billion dollars. However, that budget covers much of the cost of the current year. For example, a U.S. County Association report on budgeting bill 2021 shows that the annual expenses for nursing have to be raised by 2.5 billion dollars. ... sotheycandoit. Also missing 300 to 320 million. K. for MPA service. These are projects that the lawgiver has assigned to the rural communities without also ensuring funding for the ministry. The government came up with some of these requirements, but it is not expected that rural communities will have to be fought for the needed financial resources each year. But now I'm going to tell you that the good news is going on right now that the government is going to meet the locals in what it means to the NAP deal, and that's what it is and what it's about to do with justice. It is hardly a matter of saying good - bye to that service, not everyone who needs it. In addition, rural society calls for the establishment of the state funds to ensure a favorable loan in the coming years, but it looks like the debt of rural society will increase by up to 145 billion dollars. for the next five years. The treasure has, I would say, a very good position as far as it has low interest. I don't know where he borrows this from, actually. I have to admit it. That's exactly what I was going to ask. President of the budget board on this matter. I've kind of been wondering if it's mostly just selling bonds or how we're going to get these hundreds of billions of dollars from the debt we're now collecting into the state funds. Who is it that gives us this money, that lends us this money? I know it's the highest. The minister of finance had said that interest rates were good somewhere, but he now mentioned that if I remember correctly, they were 0.68%. If they could sit at the same table because I hear that many of them, at least One of the bigger ones, intends to try to keep his service level going without adding further burden to the population. Then they're in the same place as state funds. The fund will go that way, too, to collect debts in an effort to maintain the level of service in the form it is today despite Covid. It is necessary to reorganize the activities of the rural society and their income stocks. The Kingdom must participate in that reorganization and ensure extra funding so that further failures will not be made. Now I come to the language that has been my most thoughtful experience, and I have fought for it ever since I arrived at a council and even before that. Actually, that's why I stand here, and a group of the people came into existence, in order to fight poverty, and in the interests of those who are in palaces, society. Once again, it is intended to ignore clear legal requirements for annual growth in social security. The annual increase is the goal of ensuring that pension workers will be paid in accordance with national remuneration. I don't know, Mr. Honorable President, how many times I've lied about how it really goes with the 69th par. Social security laws and how it is haired so that it will always be used for the benefit of government funds, not for the benefit of social security. It's like the bank in a town with changing interest. It doesn't matter how you try to negotiate with him. The bank is always in a stronger contract position, and it will always swing our loans so that our profits will be on its side. Pension workers are unable to strike and demand new agreements. Their votes depend entirely on decisions made here at the Council. In the budget bill, the decision has been made to raise the cost of social security by 3.6%. The change is said to aim for the estimated average increase in labour markets next year. Interestingly, the State aims for a calculation of about 3.6% update when the index price for consumers has increased by 3.6% between the years. This is simply a standard that enables the government to say that in terms of pay development, there is nothing extra in addition to the donor's pension fund over the price of development. It's, like, you say, smart to clean it up like this, to create some frame, and drag it into that way, yes, it's a pay development. We all know it's 7.1% from October 2019 to October 2020 as measured. Then there is the average wage development. This may be best illustrated by comparing other methods of the budget in order to decide whether to pay. On page 18. 104 of that Senate document puts it puts it this way: a 5.2% increase in pay. Why might this projection be far more positive than the one involved in the advancements of social security, the one presented on page? 104 on the bill? The answer is simple. There's an estimate of the income of the state's budget, not on the sake of social security. Then, of course, standards that indicate better predictions are used. The pay sheet has increased, as I previously said, by 7.1% per year according to current measurements. But, as mentioned earlier, social insurance pensions should only be raised by 3.6%. That's an entire 3.5% off, a respectable president. The secretary of the budget has repeatedly covered himself with the fact that there should not be a pay slip when calculating the total amount of public security and therefore the pay number should not be used to calculate pay. Surprisingly, the secretary of finance believes that the pay sheet is the wrong measure to measure pay development. The salary count measures the change in the hourly buy of regular salary and work hours. The agreement of the population responsible for the calculation is maintained between measures to reflect pay development in the country. That is the right standard for making a decision about pay development. This is the standard that makes pensioners more reasonable and prevents blundering from taking place. We've watched this worst set in less than 30% in recent years, 29% exactly if I remember correctly. And, of course, just a year ago, that fatling is going out and will probably be 32.5% if corpses make 1st a knock. The criteria used here and now prevents the optimum pensioners from being the same as they're told at 69 C.E. Social Security Act. It clearly states that the legal correction to arrive each year to the social security providers should be accompanied by a country's pay development, although never less than a consumer's prescription number. But the index price for consumer consumption is always used. Even if the government refuses to aim on pay, the increase in social security would have been closer to either the biographies or the above estimates for the increase in pay by 5.2% next year. Both would have been more positive for social security. If social security bills dropped 5.2% instead of the estimated 3.6%, they would increase by 16.144 k. The payoff of the annual biographies will be $1,750. That's the 15,750. who are being called for, to be cried out. Older citizens have said: "Why can't you come to meet us and pay us the exact number of crowns? We've seen in the past that it's always been a percentage increase except when this breakthrough document deal was made, it was a dollar number. Which of them shall receive more crowns in the envelope, one with a million a month, and one with a raise of 10%, or one with 200,000 bucks. a month, and a 10% raise? The answer is simple. The guy who gets a 10% raise on top of the million gets 100,000 bucks. but the one with a 200,000 k. I'll give you $50,000. - No, what was it? 5,000 bucks.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u78	Twenty.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u79	20,000 bucks. - What I'm trying to say here, and now it's a good thing it's got a quarter. But we could not agree with them and see the reasonableness of at least The smallest of our brothers and sisters who let death out of their shell receive these crowns without being pinched off. Let us not forget that some of these crowns are taken full of taxes. Of these crowns, the state's taxes. We're still taxing a lot of money. We start taxing the individual when he is in the right of over 150,000 dollars. Then he's completely taxed. Even if he is not already on a high income tax, he has to pay taxes. Imagine this kind of talk: Yes, it's a big raise. You're raising 1 0,000 bucks. But look, we're going to take it back from 3.400k. That's the poker you play around here. Social security bills, however, are now increasing by 11,710. if we are considering this 3.6% increase. Remuneration by biographies has increased by 35,000 dollars. of April 1, 2009, but the pensions of social security have only increased 10,700 dollars. during the same period. I'm the only one who's likely to get $35,000. increase from April 1, 2019, or 10,700 k. during the same period? The sad thing about it is that the guy who gets 10,700 bucks. is the poorest person in the world. It's the equation. It is the vast equation that is being proclaimed here. It is consistent that one receives $35,000 while another receives 10,700 during the same period. It is obvious that the government has chosen to establish the minimum standard of government funds rather than to choose a standard that reflects better on national pay development. That decision is totally undefeated and shows a black facet of the government's lack of respect for the micro-riched and older citizens. Action against the economic effects of Covid: The government has taken several measures to cope with the economic consequences of Covid. At the same time, the government called for consultation and cooperation with government opposition so that the crisis could be met quickly and systematically. The government's situation offered some suggestions on this subject. To some extent, they were taken into account, but for the most part, they were ignored. The cut - off route proved to be well, and no doubt unemployment would have increased if it had not been taken to her right away at the outbreak. The government put great emphasis on opening up to a so - called bridge loan. However, the outcome has not worked properly, and it began to take a long time to implement it. Then an investment campaign was under attack that was a major factor in the early implementation of transport activities and the raising of money for the maintenance and reform of the State's property. The assessment of special property was opened, and the population took out over 20 billion of their own pension to make ends meet. It must be considered unfortunate that in times of recession, people will be encouraged to walk on their own pensions. But, yes, it's always the way that is used here in case of action. Other than that, you never get to hire this pension yourself. It's always up to the legislature when it's allowed to walk into the pension and use it for your own good, and you think it's your own personal opinion that there's a need for it. Twenty billion of Covid's own pension savings. Some other options were started, but most of them were professionally motivated or supported by the operator. In the last few weeks, the government has presented the income crisis grant and penance grant. This is a means by which 50 billion dollars will be costed. This is a scholarship to operators who have experienced loss of income due to the effect of Covid. The solution to poor people is still lacking. The four sheep that were approved from the outbreak of the pandemic had little to do with the support of the poor, elderly, and poor families. Only 25 million could be guaranteed. K. to assist groups in the community that support vulnerable groups and disabilityrs received a single payment of 10,000 bucks. It is often forgotten that before the outbreak, many people were already in dire need. These people need help today just as much. The danger is that this group will be forgotten during the operation and left out. When a bill was introduced at the beginning of October, there was little to be found of operations for these groups. The government then introduced recent surgery. These include an additional increase in the rate of disability and rehabilitation for low-cost micro-surgents and responsorts. It's raising the pension of the earnings of 7,980. They get high for 5,000 bucks. Of this, thank you. Still, it's a plus, although a group of people would have liked to see the steps larger. We have a bill that's in here, and we call to eliminate taxes and cut down completely from $350,000. and that the lowest possible pay-off will be 350,000. Although we're fighting for it, and we've done one day when a group of people entered the National Assembly of Iceland, there is no chance that the government and the greater part will see the light and right this cliff line to the citizens, at least I don't really know what to tell them to do that. That 7.980. increase in the income of the microindustries, the rehabilitation of the staff, which I was pointing out, is financed by means of the budget that had been intended for an increase in pension pay in connection with the proposed global social security changes. This work has been delayed, and this is why the budget is being set in this way until a review of the social security law is completed. So this is not a time to correct the financial mistakes and correct the pension according to the pay sheet. However, it is here on a long-term promise, before the arrival of Covid, but it has been delayed to perform. So hurrah, a respectable president, hira, she's coming right now. Then there is nothing to be found in government amateurs. For example, in the case of Covid, seniors have had to take action because they are at high risk, high - risk groups. This has resulted in increased spending and other inconveniences, some of which are both expensive and serious. There is little room for pensioners to cope with sudden unexpected expenses. In that case, citizens on the older side are usually more likely to lose their jobs when it comes to cutting. The problem of sensibilities must be taken into account, taking into account actions that support the pensioners who have the lowest income. It is necessary to strengthen the relief organization that helps poor people. Most helper groups work to finance their activities, but due to the effect of Covid-19 the fund has, for example. During the year, lie more or less down, the nature of the matter. And less is leftover in the pockets of the population. At the same time, however, the number of people who need assistance is increasing because of increasing unemployment and rising prices. - Now I'm going to step into this rising price here and say, "Congratulations, congratulations. The crown has grown stronger, and no one realizes it or says that they understand why it has grown so strong. But the fact is that it is getting stronger, and that is good news. She's getting a lot stronger, and that's a big thing it's supposed to get into the prices. It should be returned to consumers in lower prices. Well, that's a doozy. So I just challenge the bank manager and anyone who can come to keep the crown quite strong while sailing through this sea to follow it as far as possible. - Every single dollar we contribute to our community gives us many benefits. People living in poverty live in poor health and mental and physical health worse than others. It is more likely that addiction will become a prey or a victim of violence. Poor is the worst of children. By reducing poverty, we improve people's lives and feelings. We have stronger support for the economy of the nation, and the future, a respectable president, becomes brighter. I'm here talking about the wrong priorities and random actions. A greater proportion of budgetary organisations suggest that the main policy remains as long as changes are considered to be due to government protests and changes related to reassessment of income and expenses. Of course, these changes are 55 billion. Of these, 19.8 billion are included in the SR, 6 billion in the extension of the partial reform and approximately 6.7 billion are due to a reassessment of expenses in the social security system. As a result, changes in the child - reform system lead to an increase of less than 900 million. K. and the proposed change in observation will result in 240 billion. K. increase. This yields 1,350 billion. K. to buy vaccine, and at last, there are 13 billion dollars. will be due to pay changes and 6 billion will be due to change. Thus, most of the change is attributed to the government's resistance or to reevaluation of income and expenses. Of course, more parts have suggested practical suggestions. There is no need to belittle it. True, we are about to see a debt collection of probably up to 600 billion dollars. Between 2020 and 2021. It is important to ensure that educational activities, e.g. magazines are available over the years, and high school activities are secure, and colleges are able to care for more students. Therefore, there is a positive result of a change in donations for education. And as I mentioned earlier, extra funds are being made for NPA services and for nursing homes need extra care. It is also important to support our sports companies, since they have suffered a huge loss of income during the year. It is difficult to discern the priorities of the government classes when considering other options. For example, the majority of legal committees have no problem with bringing down the state. You know, like, 80 billion in memory. K., the state that can e.g. I didn't see more than 30 million. K. To S.A., which can't spare at least 20 million. K. to help people eat. That's 80 million. I would have liked to see a government that would have said, You guys have a completely unsuspecting farming. Last December, auctions were not kept on the skin. This was for Covid, which is because the demand is decreasing. It is whole and half of the nations that do not want to be seen on the street with a hairy hat made of mollusk or anything else. It's to say, "Dear farmers, what can we do to help you get into a business that's sustainable and that you're interested in so that we're accepting and accepting the social changes that are becoming what is involved in such expensiveity?" It's unsuspecting. How can we put 160 million in two years to see if minks can eat waste or recycle food and include some report? A report on what? An environmental environment or anything else? I say, if we have 160 million, we also have 160 million in poor people asking for food. Do not prioritize the money money, so that it is clearly out of every map and looks very badly on top of it. That doesn't look good, Mr. Honorable President. We're talking about a quarter of 600,000 million. K. in the next two years, about 20 or 30 or 40 million to help more volunteers who are gathering food for people and are now coming to Christmas. We're putting 70 million in various museums. Oh, great. They can't get down. We need to keep our culture, our history, our inheritance. At the same time, we could also include 70 million people, the people who need help. The priority order of money should be for the people first, so the rest. If companies can get 50 billion bucks. At a drop of income and a vigour, it must be possible to make room that increases support for poor people in distress. There must be room for that. A group of people have proposed adjustments to the majority opinion of the branch committee. We're a four-point smaller thing and it's necessary to make changes in the bill of budgeting beyond the changes made by more of the legal committee. The emphasis so far has been on securing corporate interests, but we must not forget the people. Thus, a fourth will contribute to a change in a number of grammatical areas, all aimed at protecting the welfare system and working against poverty. Subject area 23, Special Hospital Service. It is vital that we avoid being affected by the gathering of the Land Hospital's bases. It is due to the subfundance of the previous year, not to the fact that the hospital's manager was skimming money. We saw the consequences of cutting down the health system when a group of infections occurred in the fall of Landakot. Conditions there were far from ensuring the patient's well - being. The amount of money is missing, and there is no room for further cuts. We can't treat the Land Hospital like some small loan company with their consumers. Because of this, sources to the 2310 topic area will be raised by congregations at the General Hospital for over 4 billion dollars. Subject range 27, disability and the affairs of disabled people, and the 28th matter area of the elderly. Here I gather these two topics, although they are different because, in this case, I'm talking about those people who need to rely on social security pensions. Social security bills on the law will be subject to annual changes in accordance with pay development. The financial bill accounts for a 3.6% increase in the amount of social security, while the pay sheet has increased by 7.1% per year according to the latest figures. It is therefore suggested that legally increase the legal remuneration of the 2710, 27,20, 28.10 and 28.20, respectively, to a greater than 3.5%. This is beyond the suggestions of a greater proportion of the budget board. Environment area 32, Social Health and Health Management: Unemployment has increased in the year. At the same time, there has been an increase in the number of people who need to seek help and ask for help. At the same time, preventative measures have made it harder to raise funds. Hence, a government fund is suggested to strengthen a food - care organization of some 160 million people. K. next year, that's on a couple with what we're going to put in the minks. The government intends to spend the same amount to see if they can be fed on food waste. If we find money to feed less, we must be able to find money to feed people. It's just clean lines. It is suggested that provisions be provided for the food distribution organization and that the provision is made according to the scope of the sponsorship involved. It's suggested that the Department of Social Affairs care for the project. There is not much money, but the amount would bring many benefits to society. I thought I had something a little more, but it's just the votes with the bill. It's kind of modest what we have here. We do not have 10, 20 or 30 adjustments, but they are clear and expressive. Let's look a little at Christmas, a respectable president. If I see that I'm not beginning to blink, I'm going to come right to the important things for me. How did I feel as an exhausted and poor mother with four children, a broken arm that had gone through a doctor's error and had broken his arm for six years, a total loss of foot, and a poverty such that it was nothing but despair and distress? I wondered, a respectable president: How many people are out now, our country, as an anxiety of Christmas? How many people are unable to give their child a new pair of shoes or a coat? What are many people who have to rely on praying to their caregivers or grown children, as I had to do at the time, for help so that they can put a proper Christmas meal on the table? And here we are, the lawgiver, the resources, and gather debts to try to save what may be saved, or at least to set priorities for something more important than that in order to save it rather than the rest. There must be a way to save everyone. We must not leave someone in the wallet and grief. It should be against the law. And here's the lawgiver. It should be forbidden by law. Actually, all I have to say is that priorities are different. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has said: Not everything can be done for everyone. I say, there is something that can be done for everyone. There is never anything you can do for everyone, but we must prioritize people first. We must put our arms around society, so we are not simply on the verge of seeing community groups that are bent on seeing nothing ahead, that their children born geniuses with gifts like all other children will never get a chance because Dad and Mom don't have money. Mom, can I study ballet? Maybe later, my love, maybe next year. Dad, can I play football? Can I study the piano? Can I learn guitar? Can I go to college? Maybe later. Let's ask the government first. Let's see what she has to say about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u80	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland spirit speech. Of course, it is hopeless in a two - minute answer to bear down in all the many comments and notes that were presented in each speech. A senator, but I have a lot to say and I want to take this opportunity to thank you. A member of the Committee to Re-Elect. In the final words of a talk, each one. One senator found that in one of the sums of money we won, we gave 600 million. K. to join the country to provide support for low - income homes, which ensures equal children's opportunities for sports and leisure activities. Surely, we are always looking for ways to provide support in many areas of society, and this is, of course, part of the prevention process very important, and I agree with a senator that we never do enough there, no matter what organized hobbies are involved. We're going to make sure of this. Hv. A senator sort of threw a question to me about the payment of the state's debt and where we take the loans. Of course, we'll take care of that in the reports here on borrowing. But, yeah, yeah. A senator has the right number, 600 billion, if we take both years. 360 billion next year, it may have increased slightly. Most of this will be in government bonds and bills, something in foreign, possibly to meet the grant of remuneration. But, hey. A senator had this in his speech. In a second answer, I'm going to come into my rural society only as far as I'm concerned. In his talk, a senator took some time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the body of elders and the chairman of the legal committee were cordially charged with the counterargument as well as for a very good cooperation on the committee during the winter. I notice why. A senator speaks about 600 million. K. who have been added to farm members to meet and balance children's positions and give poorer children the opportunity to engage in sports and other activities. I don't know why. A senator knows that in the capital city of Reykjavík, it is also assumed that children will receive a so - called vacation card. But strangely enough, if parents who are usually very poor people owe something in the system, their child's vacation card is paid, so it remains zero. Just think! A senator, the child's vacation card in the city, is taken and used in other debts that the parent shares with the local community, e.g. A vacation home or something. The vacation card! Look, this isn't the right priorities. It's just sad. Perhaps we should somehow try to ensure that, if this kind of well - being exists, 600 million in the countryside to meet this one, that these funds will be devoted exclusively to the children, for most of them have poor parents. Hence, it is not surprising that somewhere a parent or a parent may not have the ability to pay the same price. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u82	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I told you I was going to come into the countryside only. Hv. A legal committee, though, discussed local societies and, like a driving force. In his talk, a senator was enrolled in Article 11. legal on public financial matters, this field of consultation that is supposed to be between the state and the community, and that is well. In a declaration that was signed and written. There were additional contributions by the balance fund to meet several important matters in the community service, which are important in this situation. It also states that evolution should be carefully monitored. It is important that rural society can meet this decline with the same power as the State, since the total wealth of the state is about one third. But then we forget a little bit during the discussion a lot of the Covid operation we've been going through with a budget-engineered source. I mentioned here one, 600 million in support of sports and hobbies. There were 540 million healthy people in the home, mental health and mental well - being, 450 million working against the social isolation of the elderly, and to promote the social centers of older citizens. The list is long, and it gathers. These are all the measures used by rural society; reimbursement of merit tax, etc. We need to put a little bit of weight around it, what it comes down to, and then how this affects the out-of-study incomes of our rural society and other projects. Then, of course, there are schedules we're adding here, et cetera. So it may not be quite simple and difficult to mix with this discussion of the 50 billion men who were asked to support a community directly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. For the answer, a senator says: "Of course we don't belittle it, and as I said before, small things do something very small. Of course, when it comes together, it's a good thing. But what I'm calling for is special measures. There are special actions to poor people, special measures for children who are struggling with families, putting their arms around people, and promoting them to the fort, preventing them from getting out of their way, preventing them from feeling bad, they're peripheral, that they're not compatible, that they can't share with schoolmates, that they just don't have society because they're out of bed. We've always said, " It's not fair to be harassed. ' No one is to be harassed. But I can tell you, a respectable president, that when I sat at that table, I have to pick up my children on social insurance benefits and never make ends meet, often nothing but worry and distress, all I could think of was that the government was putting me and my kids on hooking up because I didn't think they were doing it for us that it had to be done. I felt like I had treasure in my four children. I also felt that we had the right to exist like any other company. We were our little business, we were family, and we should put our arms around everybody. In the end, I'll say it to what. Senator: I'm not going to belittle what we're doing even though I've always set priorities for people from A to Z.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u84	Mr. President. The current budget is taking on a final form. The government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir has shown all its cards and more of the legal committees presented adjustments in accordance with its vision and offered some additional suggestions. If you look at all the facts, the details, and the number of visitors the committee met, you can say that the notice of the section of the work of the Committee is very low compared with the period when the committee charged with reading reviews and listening to all who felt that they had an important message to offer. This, of course, raises questions about the work force of the committee and all the hard work that many people do to reach their ears but do not have the work to do. This part of the work should rightly be done in the Commission's research when funding are prepared and not so much at the table of the budget board. Of course, the Allied Parliament has the budget and has the final word and can change and improve the contribution of a bill. In particular, the role of the management body is important in these matters and natural that it wants to have and can affect the bill. True, doing so often requires that we do so. In my opinion, it is normal and necessary to deal with the big film, the split of the cake, both on the pay and on the income side, and there will always be political conflict. My opinion is, and I think it is undisputed that it is, in particular, the purpose of the law on government finance, that the Congress should focus on the big issues, the broad lines, but, rather, on individual budgets, which are small and have the nature of the matter, according to the responsibility of the European Commission. But this does not change the fact that each government has to render an account to the council and support the entire provision of funds within the framework set by the Parliament. Mr. President. It is true that each year's budget is some kind of high order and a manifestation of the policy of every government. These financial laws, such as the previous government's budget, are no exception to the green, independent, and forwarding classes. Of course, budgets and financial policies tell their own story. It is inevitable to consider these issues, the entire economy, since the government came into power. It is reasonable to discuss in 2020 and plans for 2021 in separate ways, but when considering what the government has done in economic and financial affairs since its reinstatement over three years ago and through the past few years, that journey is covered by three budgets, three financial programs, and one financial policy that needed to be revised in the year 2019 because of the government's high optimism of economic progress. Government expectations proved unrealistic. That was repeatedly pointed out, but she chose to ignore them. When the government took over, it was quite content with it, and it has been up to this point. But it's actually starting to sour the atmosphere of that town. It's an election beyond the corner. The broad solidarity of a bridge's array of political colors is beginning to grow weary and disunited over many major matters within the administration team have become apparent and even becomes a question as to whether it will last through the ideal period. It seems that when everything seemed to be in poise in the front of the administration home, it was determined that the government's affairs were set free. Expenditures and expenses swelled to the top as much as the longest economic growth in the nation's history. Yes, it was happy in the palace. Some thought it was enough, repeatedly pointing out that the party would end, and the lumbermen would be very harsh if the gladiator did not stop. During the trip, we were tirelessly pointing out that the government's policy and the government's expansion were based on sand, excessive optimism, and paraphrasing to read right from economic developments. But as history teaches, it is difficult to stop losing its senses at its height. This has proved true again. Mr. President. It's important to review and act on these things. Early in 2019 C.E., however, things got worse. In this regard, the circulation of 2019 C.E. is a testimony. When the viral epidemic breaks down and the daily lives of people and companies return to normal values, hopefully before the end of the next year, they face its long - term consequences and restore their financial and government balance. It will be a challenging task that will be even more difficult to fulfill because of these financial resources. Had the government held the cards properly during the first season and given a warning ear, we would be better equipped to deal with the problems we now face and in the long future than we can see. Mr. President. Despite what is described above, much of this treasure is available in international comparison. The debt ratios had been reached to a high level, and the currency response rate was high in interest. Hence, it is both correct and reasonable to conclude that the sequence of events that began in February of this year was in full force. Of course, the year 2020 is special and will definitely be in Iceland's history books, and it is not likely that by 2021 it will be carried there. There have been a number of measures, five additional budgets have been submitted, and a variety of legal adjustments have been made to reduce economic and social ills caused by families and businesses. Much of what has been done has been successful. Immediately, at the convention, we said that we would support all the good matters of the government, provide support, and strive to work at the council for reforms and refinements. This is what we've been doing. The government made it possible to keep the government out of all preparations and policies for action. Instead, she has emphasized the plans for a beautiful press conference. This is the course she has chosen, and it is to be expected that she forgot the rich emphasis that was put on increasing consultation with the General Assembly in the Constitution. But when he was written, it was then. It takes a long, thorough search to find where the government's proposals have directly penetrated the government's case. Certainly, and it must not be denied, the initials in occasional cases have greatly improved in the affairs of the council. The Senate committees have made many good adjustments, and the government has not left its mark, but it would have rushed and benefited by ensuring full political consultation at all levels. Mr. President. There are many good things in this budget, many things we can agree on, and there is a fruit of decision making that has already been taken from the Council or that will be taken right before Christmas. Thus, the new bill is limited in itself, even though the sums are certainly high that add up to the bill from the time it was submitted, and the changes in the more part include further expenditures of about 55 billion, an enormous number. But there is no denying that the priorities of the government are often peculiar. Money is given to things that should hardly come first during these times while others are being put on the move. Of course, this is the political vision of the greater part. In this case, in particular, the rate of application is up by 280 million. K. Special funding is due to the proposed environmental agreement with the retail producers at a rate of 80 billion. K. Total support for the project is expected to be able to study up to 160 million. K. It is suggested that farms and sheep make up in part a recession in demand because of a significant decrease in tourists, a total of less than a billion, some 240 million. K. ... toa cow prayer and less than 730 billion. K. To sheep's farmers. No conditions for this support, as given when other business partners are involved because of a homologous problem, can be seen. While the problem of farmers and food producers is not being minimized, the other energy is much strongly recommended to provide them with this special support in order to meet the loss of income and market failures. It is quite normal to apply the same principles and principles to another business that has exactly the same problems. In addition, it should be noted that at the same time, the import of agrienvironment products is only lost to reduce product selection and to promote prices when competition inevitably declines to the import limit. No, this is not the correct methodology, but it seems to be very much in the spirit of the governments. Mr. President. The restoration isn't an exposé. We don't choose to go to overtime, but we worry about what happens after the epidemic. It is said that it is difficult to control a crisis, but it is even harder to control in good health. I think there is some proof in the government that today it was unable to rule in unprecedented goods that went right up to this year. How remarkable it is when you look back and see that you were unable to keep your financial balance to a better degree than when you look to the accounts of 2019! We need to deal with the problem now, but we too need to look to the future. As I have said before, in the expansive setting, we have emphasized that it would be a big step right away, that the money would be brought to where they needed the situation, and that it would especially be necessary for people who have lost their jobs to earn a living. You need to try to do as much as you can to make sure that the most traumatic enterprises, especially for travel services, are in position to start a operation when you start a tourist stream again. Sadly, though, the exact date of that event remains unclear. But by supporting these companies, we will ensure the greatest high economic resistance when the epidemic's impacts begin to decline. Mr. President. Just as we need to remember, the future may be a matter of being preoccupied with modern life and its problems. We need to do what we can do, including by preparing innovation, economic growth enterprises that could be derived from foreign markets through their intelligence and services and products that could be sold from abroad at a good price and that could make prosperity for society in general and for the employees working for them. Therefore, we must not forget to prepare the future by boldly promoting innovation, research and science, and depositing funds that can help companies develop and examine their work environment. However, one of the basic reasons for such building is the continued external conditions that will best be guaranteed by a powerful economic management, which, as we did in Reunion, must, of course, be backed up by a powerful currency. As we look to the future, we need to consider how we will cope with the grand task of balance in Kingdom life. How are we going to cover debt, and over how long? It can be expensive to owe, and although interest levels are very low at this time, it is very difficult to predict where they will be in the long run. After all, the more you owe, the more you have to pay for interest. And the more we pay for growth, the less we will be able to provide the money we can afford to operate on lucrative projects, profitable infrastructures, think about the future, and make sure that all the services we agree on are on the public circle of activity. It is imperative that we consider carefully examining all government operations, where we can do better, what to streamline, where to get better results without cutting service, and without going too far in increasing pressure on employees. We must simply do this. In our restoration, we are convinced that there is much more to be observed. We have seen very clear examples of how new solutions can be found to cope with many areas of everyday business and other services, e.g. by using the technology that we have become accustomed to using every day and by some all day long. All of this shows that there are things you can do. Good service, administrative activities, employment at the General Assembly, and other activities can be done. So much can be done by adjusting one's attitude. Sometimes you have to get a little cut or a little kick up your ass to figure out that it's possible. I think we should not be afraid to wonder what privileges the State is. Is everything that the State and the public are dealing with absolutely necessary? If that is absolutely necessary, we can ask ourselves: " Is it necessary for the State or for its public members to do the work privately? Even if it is possible to consider whether they can be dealt with by personal or totally with the government, it is beneficial to pay, as there are many examples in today's community. You could do more of this. Of course, there will always be nuclear and other activities that most of us will agree to solve from the public and not to make an enormous debate about it. But we should not be afraid to look at these things carefully and to act on what can benefit all of us. Mr. President. The restoration provides eight, which, in fact, are seven pointed changes to these budgets, and I will now take sides with them. In the present position, everything in the industry is important. By the end of October, 25,000 people were out of work. When a number of people lose their jobs, it means that their homes earn a lot of money. This loss alone can follow people for many years with reduced property production and an increase in debt. If unemployment persists, it also contributes to the risk of long - term social problems. There is a direct link between loss of income and loss of health, both spiritual and physical, in those who lose their jobs and their families. The lack of employment, however, does not merely bite the people and families in it. It affects the economy. Reduced consumption of infectious agents and slow down the interest rate we need to put all the strength to stimulate now. That is what the work of the law has to take into account. Therefore, we propose a restoration proposal for a temporary reduction in insurance pay. The proposal means that the company's insurance fees for employees hired from a unemployment registry in the coming year will be 50% of full insurance fees and that value for one year. The need for professional support is high in reducing unemployment and its negative effects. The change in the proposal is expected to affect the income of the state's budget to decrease by 5 billion, but it can be expected that it will immediately deliver itself to a faster form of employment. In the large context, in the context of all the budgets that the government has set up and proclaimed, this inexpensive operation is designed to have a significant effect on the welfare of the government. Mr. President. Other adaptable proposals turn to cultural and artistic specifics and deep problems and tourism on the other hand. The measures against the virus have weighed heavily on these branches, and they have been pulled away from their harvester. In the case of art and culture, exhibitions of any kind have either been prohibited or permitted by such restrictions. Precipitating artists have met these changes and have reduced their damages by offering e.g. On display through the stream. But it doesn't fill the gap, far from it. Of course, in the case of tourism, there are strict restrictions and the small willingness of people to travel that has removed the demand from the article. Then there's two things hanging together. Travelers want to attend cultural events, and the Icelandic art scene attracts people from all over the world. If this is the desire here at the General Assembly to protect the valuable creations, jobs and agriculture that these articles need to take special action, efficient and targeted, not widely distributed assistance that flows directly into a real estate market or provides a higher price. Government travel was a good solution, but it can be applied even more fully to the framework of that gift and the use of methodology. Therefore, we suggest that this game be repeated. Now a similar gift will be given to the nation, but this time it will be 15,000. and cleared out so that it also reaches staged art shows and flows. She will also be enlarged so that she will be enjoyed by everyone down to the age of 12. As a result, these articles will be a great source of encouragement, making it easier for people to travel and enjoy all kinds of art and culture. Thus, it is likely that the domestic demand for the services of these parties will be greatly increased and weighing that a large number of foreign tourists will grow more slowly than expected. It is obvious, then, that the gift will come well for many, especially for those who suffer unemployment and significant loss of income. This solution has more advantages, is quick and specific, and prevents government efforts to exchange support between those who enjoy it. The market laws are trusted to distribute the value. The absolute use of government travel is currently 40%, i.e. About 40% of the patients assigned 5,000Ks. It has been reused, and it is now being extended. But if we expect a considerable number of people to take advantage of the traveling, cultural, and list giving proposed and, if we expect, what should we say, 70% use, this will include expenses for the state funds of 3.3 billion. This is not much compared to the use and the effects it will have in protecting and creating a number of jobs in delicate but very important jobs. Mr. President. Then we'll come to the third motion of the Archivist. You see, there are other opportunities to provide specific and precise support to articles that most risk lost jobs. One of these articles is the food field. Meeting restrictions have been more pronounced at restaurants and wine restaurants than have many other businesses. In a new analysis from yesterday's Association of Professional Sciences, I think we're talking about the position of the caterer. It may be said that a black form is drawn up there. In the local food management sector, the value between March and October of this year and the year was reduced by a total of 22 billion. Of these, 19 billion were convergences by foreign tourists. During this period, the trade - store map was dragged by 82%, while domestic maps were falling by 9%. The number of jobs in the food trade sector has decreased by a quarter between the years, but in September about 2,700 fewer individuals were paid in the profession compared to the same period of the previous year and above, the food sector has had to cope with a lot of unpredictable problems in the business to form due to changes in the management arrangement. This is not all, however, because last year's work had already become very difficult for tourists to reduce and pay had continued to rise, and the loss of 40% of restaurants during the past year was due to the annual account of 2019. The analysis by the Association of Business Life reports that the fraction of this article accounts for about 70-80% and therefore does not allow much room for increased debt in an ongoing recession. Mr. President. Yeah, it's a black picture, and we need to let her down. During our restoration, we have provided some suggestions that have the goal of helping this article get up and leaving here one more thing. We suggest for one year, out of 2021, next year, enterprises that have a valid license under the law of restaurants, hotels and entertainment, and firms with a valid license for restaurants in category one, bar and pubs, will be given at 6% worth tax instead of 11% of the trades that are considered for sale in food and other products that are available for human consumption. That's a safe way to go. It does not interfere with the valuable tax system, but it does involve a temporary reduction in tax rate, well-defined activities that have been exposed to the epidemic, and it desperately needs ways to help fight resistance. It's been a great experience. In particular, Germany, as well as comparable measures have been made in many parts of Europe; Austria, Belgium, Britain, Ireland, Czech Republic and Norway. It is estimated that this proposal will lead to a decrease in the income fund of 5 billion in total, but this amount will require consumption, activity, to reach the same level as in 2019 and more. As a result, the reduction in income is likely to be much smaller. Thus, this is yet another solution proposed, which is inexpensive in the big context, but it is designed to produce quick and effective support for the vulnerable sectors of employment. Mr. President. Then we'll come to the fourth motion of the Archivist. Companys play a key role in the drag for Covid. The cost of paying is very heavy for the rural population. The pay or pay expenses there are more than twice as much money on the government budget. It is the largest public service and school affairs, a law - appointed service that has continued to grow along with the increased demand for it. This is not the cost of community cuts. They are not really allowed to do so, and they cannot because of the consequences it would have. The OECD economic counsel for the pandemic is given to Member States as a warning against the effects on rural society, especially if there is a cutoff point to the management and failure of the Member States. OECD also warns that rural status will be worse in countries where income stocks are mainly tax-related than in countries where government support is largely earnings. Iceland falls into the first category, and we actually land on the top of the OECD state when it comes to the percentage of total income companies. We're way above the other northern countries. Social service has grown dramatically because of the pandemic of crown virus and will grow even more, especially because of unemployment. Meanwhile, rural society's pay costs are increasing. Therefore, it is long time for the state funds to enter and support them in order to render this needed service. The ease in service to the inhabitants of these delicate times is designed to counteract the stimulation of the State Fund and both the prolongation and depth of the crisis we are going through. Hence, in order to cover up the greater costs of social services, resurgence suggests that 2 billion will be spent in a special way in support of rural society. The amount of money does not cover all the costs, but it helps to reduce the impact of cutbacks on people's services. Since these funds are properly distributed, local societies, which most have expenses for this type of service, have the most support. That's normal and fair. Mr. President. Then we'll come to the fifth motion of the Archivist. Much has been discussed about the importance of mental health care. During the last winter, we all joined together with a legal bill, which was to take the initiative to provide psychological treatment and other useful treatments for health care professionals under Iceland's Medical Insurance. What a huge step for mental - health service! As a result, the General decided to put the spiritual health of the people on the same couch as physical health. This is an alternative to slowing the incidence of disability due to spiritual illness and increasing the number of those who may seek necessary treatment. This is always important, and especially now when the epidemic has had measurable negative effects on the people's well - being. The fact is, many people have to deny themselves necessary psychological services. A key factor is to provide access to preventive measures and increase the potential for immediate dealing with such diseases as depression and anxiety that seem to be increasing, especially among young people, and current economic conditions do not improve. Without a doubt, such would have a long - term positive national impact. Like the diseases seen today, these invisible diseases need to be met. Thus, quality of life can be improved. No one is to be denied because of costs or lack of access, but according to Iceland's Hausti reports, about 33% of the population do not have the resources for mental health care. This is especially true of young, picky people, and likely no one is surprised. But now the Council is trying to ensure adequate funding for the resources. 100 million. K. a contribution from the health department funds is not enough. That's a very long way from that. The need for at least 1.3 billion will be taken into account by the calculations and guesses presented in the bill Backing and based on statistical facts. On that basis, we bring up an amendment for the complete funding of this financial enterprise. This amount is in the ocean compared to the cost of the nation of spiritual illness that is lost, but even if not, health will not be valued for the money. V.E.G. A health minister has remarked that it is unnecessary to knock at the door of the Ministry in these matters. All you have to do is finance the whole thing. My dear boy. Senators. Now's your chance. The Ministry's door is open. We need help to get through that door. Here we have the tools and tools. We don't have anything to do with this. Mr. President. Sixth, there is a proposal for innovation and research. Although the epidemic is the center of action and the decision of the government in these budgets, it must still be looked beyond the length of time. It must focus on what builds for long - term economic growth and minimise the potential for trauma to affect us as seriously as we know from collapse, and long before collapse, as we see happening again today. Business growth must be improved, and especially the global sector and the creative exports that contribute to long - term sustainable and economic growth. This is one of our greatest challenges. Of course, this is not the first time to suffer in Icelandic employment, and it is a failure, although the virus epidemic is now the biggest and considerably different from other traumas. That's the nature of the case. But what have we said every time that catastrophe has struck us in our traditional sectors? And what have we promised ourselves every time? Yes, we're going to increase the variety of Icelandic commercial life. We're going to have more support, we're not going to become this depending on one industry, but we always make the same mistake. We forget, we start to rely on some things that become too extensive in the community. Although it is right to celebrate the fact that the government has made a significant contribution to innovation and evolution, it simply takes more than that. Everyone should know that innovation and development is a long-term phase. It'll take a long time. Short - term reliefs, therefore, are not enough. Such adventures are not designed to create something new and to contribute to the undeniably long - term work and money. Here, we must simply make a change. We must make a strong statement: We are going to think for a long time. We are going to contribute large amounts of money to innovation and development projects, which will do so in the long run. Everyone who puts in innovation must be able to trust that there is support and in the long run, and then I repeat again once more, that this will take all time. Data show that there is a low yield rate in funds such as technical development funds and research funds. In the summer distributions of Technical Development Funds, the share was, for example, the ratio. 8%. Worse yet, the share is not so low because of the quality of the applications or the quality of the tasks you are applying for. No, it's so low because it doesn't have enough money. The highest quality applications, however, range from 25 to 30%, applications that should definitely be supported. The same is true of the Laundromat Fund. There, in fact, the success rate was about 19%, but it should rightly be closer to 30%. And where the same thing is true, there is a project, a great project, a wonderful work that will bring us much in the future, but they will not succeed because the money is lacking. Hence, in view of our urgent need, we make a suggestion to be mild - tempered. It is modest in adding 2 billion to this group of subjects, setting up 1 billion for development, 750 million. K. to Research Fund and $250 billion. K. ... totheinstructor. In the middle of an affair, I'd like to mention another subject related to it and have to be dealt with as soon as next year. It is extending a temporary arrangement or measures that included a temporary increase in the reimbursement of research and development costs to an enterprise of utmost importance. And it is as important to have long - term experience as it is that the companies are on the move for costly projects, and they hardly know from year to year whether they would receive the support they had when they left. This has to be changed, and the project will be transferred to that level immediately next year. Mr. President. 7th and final, there is a proposal for energy exchange and climate change. Small proposal, but important. The government will talk about its emphasis on climate. However, the goals are somewhat monotonous and do not take only to a very limited extent. The government's budget would well have carried with it a clearer policy in these areas that would take on all aspects of society. We need it so much. Reversal has always been the means by which it needs to exert the same motivation today as that of decommissioning it. Those who are contaminated should share the cost of pollution at the expense of a government fund, e.g. of carbon charges, should also be used to promote improvements in climate. Intensifications of soil and vegetation need to be made along with protection and the growth of biological diversity with vast increases in the recovery of nature forests and other decompositioned ecosystems. In this spirit, at a recent assembly, the restoration proposed to raise the carbon price, an increase of about 5% instead of 2.5%, the proposal was dropped here a few days ago. But now, more part of the Economic and Business Committee has proposed almost exactly the same increase, making a 0.1 percentage miscalculation. I'm happy, of course, but at the same time, it's one manifestation that it seems that more important for members of the council to take practical suggestions from the smaller section and to take them up and make their own proposals. Of course, there is another story that is irrelevant in this discussion. Another key element is the incentive for transport energy exchange. Thus, in order to increase the number of speed loads for cars and to be placed throughout the country, the project will be increased. We modestly suggest that an additional 400 million will be added. K. The path to the program "smb4k" Thus, the change is in addition to the government's plans for the progressive development of energy exchanges in transport. This will be investment grants for building fast - loading stations in key places on the highways, as mentioned earlier, with special emphasis on the next generation of loading stations, energy stations, and faster loading stations. Energy funds will be assigned to handle the distributions of these strengths, thus making it easier for people to choose green options for transport and to take important steps into the future. We can make it possible that those tourists who hopefully flock to the country for the next few years can, in increasing numbers, travel around on electric cars and not have to worry about not being able to load when needed. Mr. President. It is not a trivial document, it is a guide and promise by the government what awaits us next year and at the same time on our long journey to the future. The government and government groups are not infallible, nor are they responsible for the right to decide only what to do or not do. However, this is true of the General Assembly in its entirety. I have the hope that most of the things that are now holding on to the powers will understand this and therefore take note of the suggestions I have made. That would certainly be new and to follow, but I must admit that I am not very optimistic. But who knows?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for the talk that well illustrated how diligent and diligent he has been in the work of the budget committee in the fall; there are many things that we will welcome in our joint work there. But what I wanted to respond to, as the team is called, is the senator's comment on agriculture and the inexplicability of that arrangement. I want to point 'em. In the document that follows the majority opinion, the matter is tore up a few words. I'd like to put my arms around it. A senator was trying to figure out the situation and try to describe it to him. We have had here some general resources that have used many people, but the nature of farming is in a way that would not be an option for farmers to place cows on partial reforms or to use temporary measures. The reality, however, is that the price has fallen, the store is gathering. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A senator: What other effective means does he have in mind when he speaks of it in this way?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u86	Madam President. Thank you. A senator very much for this answer. What I mean primarily when I wonder about this is that I can't get better seen, and why. A senator can help me understand it better or explain it to me, but that this is a budget coming up at 1 billion if we stick to sheep farmers and farmers who are supposed to give support and strength because of the circumstances we are all known. What I was pointing out is that all others who receive assistance are required in various ways to receive help. How much income is needed? How many employees do you have to resign? This should not be so or queer, very strict conditions are set and, in some respects, have gone a little far in them. Yet, there is something that everyone needs to meet. What are the conditions that will be set? What kind of farm is being supported? Is there a lower limit? Get the support that doesn't have much of a personality -- I'm afraid to talk about hobbies, it's not like that. What I mean is that I don't see on what basis this is done. I'm saying this kind of thing, and I'd like to say it immediately, when it's done. A senator says that the cows will not be on part-time reforms, nor will the tourists.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u87	President. The president knocked me off the track earlier by taping the bell, and I couldn't figure out the question to the question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u88	Mr President is sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u89	But thank you for the answer. All I want to do is try to explain this picture more clearly. We've given resistance grants and a boost to the commercial life where the market has almost disappeared, there will be no tourists, etc. What this industry faces is that we have a lot of supply problems. In fact, not all of our supply problems are detected in freezers, where they live. It's getting bigger. They are not slaughtered, so we face a real problem that is basically an animal's welfare concern. When I look at this text, I can see exactly where the top is. Aggressor uses his spears. He wants to prevent such a situation. Icelandic agriculture is in a fierce competition with foreign producers, and I know, and I have information that here, too, can bring meat products that are hardly available at all. On a large scale, it is simply because the market has disappeared. In this way, we are also using requisitions to other companies, projects have disappeared, and problems are faced. But I look first and foremost, yeah. A senator, that we are being prevented from a complete fallout and as much as trying to help us not to sit down with a terrible situation that creates a problem with the welfare of animals. I see that's what's at the top. Aggressor is amongst others. drawing up with their suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u90	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a clear explanation, and I appreciate it. Yeah, it's the problem and the methods. I don't have the solution, I'll quite admit it. I understand that farming is in many ways different from any other branch. I don't want to belittle it. That may not be fair, because the answers are over, but I'm going to say that the best interests of animals are very good; we want to treat animals well and do so. However, I do not fully understand how this support contributes to the well - being of animals, whether it is because of feeding them or whether they can be preserved and added to the supply. I don't quite understand. But that's where I come up with my ignorance, and maybe you'll give me an explanation, Haraldur, outside the door, so I understand, because I'd like to understand this very well. I reiterate what I said in my speech, that I'm not reducing this problem at all, I'd like to draw it out specifically. This is a problem like another problem that needs to be addressed. I put a question mark on whether this method was correct, and I also wondered about conditions set up, which I don't quite see being done about that strength. It may well be that they will be removed from the minister in due time. That's all they're going to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u91	The President admonishes the Parliament to refer to other members of Congress by using the address defamatory and then full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u92	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson's speech and the cooperation with the Committee. Many features of this talk gave evidence of failure. A senator is well-invented, as I can only confirm. I feel like the changes in my plans. A senator did a very good job of speaking into many of the things being done. But I'm not going to stay with it. Hv. A senator came into the process of looking to the future and to the future projects and the wealth as a whole. He mentioned the priorities that it's all about, i.e. State business priorities. We should ask ourselves, " What is absolutely necessary, necessary, or less necessary? ' A senator expressed it. Then I wondered, " Is the restoration really working out what business is more at home at the market? ' any business or institutions that would be proposed to be simply laid down or delivered to the market.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u93	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson and president of the budget board for warm words to me and sent them back in the same way. It has been a joy to work on the Governing Body, which in many respects has worked very well and under strong control. A senator, so he can handle it. Yes, I've been thinking about this a little bit, and we've been doing a little work on wood, with the state business, as I think I've gone over in the speech. This discussion is sometimes a bit harsh and difficult. There are fundamental factors that are very obvious to the State. I would, for example. say that there would never be an option for the police to be private, or that the prisons were private or something like that. But then we have various activities, such as the way we want the Kingdom, i.e. Our common funds make sure that a certain service is performed. A fine example of this is just what I was talking about in my speech, caring for the psychological services. It is not about the fact that the State should not secure the ministry by financing it. The question is, Who should give it? Is it really to be public employees, or is that service as well or even better in the hands of a private person? We know that in the health system, we have a very private business that the government finances.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u94	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. There is a basic service that the market would never qualify for. A senator showed up here, like the law, which is a very good example. Then came the problem. A senator's example of this is when we buy a service through health insurance in this case. There's a lot of expertise and knowledge in the world, so it would be quite indiscriminate if we were to put all of this under the hat of the state. Hv. A senator said it was reversed. I think there is a misunderstanding in the discussion at times when talking about health care because of the circumstances. Consider the case of a senator. There is no question that we want the government to operate in health care and that we care for health care. But that is not to say that expertise cannot become available to that sector through services, and I think we should do more. I agree with what. A senator there. Then we should just watch knowledge. Then we need to see what service is being performed, such as. in the hospitals. What service do we need in a very complex way? What special service do we need in a phase 3 service? Then there's something else that's turned in, that's when the market gets mixed. This has always been very sensitive throughout the discussion. The banks, the terminals, the booze, the postman. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: Has the restoration made up his mind regarding all the cases and institutions that depend on that service?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u95	Madam President. Yeah, I said it was turned, and it's certainly turned, there we are. A senator certainly agrees. First, I'd like to say that in all this discussion, and why. A senator did not do so at all, has to be very careful about what is private and what is private business. Reverence has spoken a great deal about making much more use of opportunities, e.g. In the health system, for personal failures, but not personal reforms at all. It's just a whole different thing. Personalization, where the government, our funds, and all of us have nothing to do with securing the quality and following events, is not a methodology that I please. Hv. A senator mentioned a few companies, I'm saying that we don't have a list in the Wende where we've drawn it all together, but that's a good tip, we'd probably have to set it up. Of course, a man can ask himself about the mail, because it was specifically called, which has not been directly, without my wanting to be a big fan of my own, exemplary in all its conduct and operation. It's in the hands of the government. I don't think anything in the nature of that operation calls for the State to run that kind of service. However, the government is to secure it. That's different. But I'm not sure that it's best to have a company that's run under a command that the politicians and I ship in. I'm not sure it's the best arrangement, so I'm completely honest and I don't want to throw any stones in the direction of this. But I think it's a fact.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u96	Madam President. Now the pages of a committee article are completed, and we take a general discussion. I'd like to get involved here with the 2nd. ... abundant. I may not be going to do it very thoroughly. I refer here in the beginning to the committee's opinion of more of the budget committee and a very detailed speech at the time. The chairman and chairman of the Committee's opinion, the chairman of the budget board, earlier today. In this committee program, we are trying to shed some light on the situation and what has been discussed in the processing of this budget project in preparation for 2 strategies. It is. I would like, with the permission of the President, to quote the Commission opinion that we will discuss the economic presidents: Iceland's Institute of National Organization is the foundation of the bill. Thereby, 7.6% of the decline in GDP (VLF) is expected during the year and 3.9% of the growth rate in the next year. Predictions based, including Therefore, there is no need for strong disease prevention measures next year and for tourists to increase by half between year and year, i.e. ... tothis country will have 900 thousand tourists next year. Inflation is expected to be just above the objective of the Federal Bank next year, which is explained by the loss of the crown for the remaining year. It is expected that unemployment will reach its peak by the end of 2020 and then reduce slightly next year. If that continues, unemployment becomes similar to that of 2011. These criteria depend on the level of uncertainty due to the state of the pandemic crown virus. The progress of the epidemic and the epidemic is the dominant factor in economic development. Nations forecasting will result in a number of tourists less than half of what they were in 2019. Reversibility in VFF equals up to 300 billion bucks. less production in the economy. Exports have been a significant factor, especially as a result of less service exports to tourists. However, an increase in co-medication is shown due to automatic fluctuation rates and specific spending measures. In October of the fall, the overall unemployment rate in the workforce was 9.9%, corresponding to 20,252 persons. In addition, 4,759 subjects had a decreased work ratio. When compared, unemployment was recorded 5.0% in February in the winter of 5,314 individuals. The next year, the economy is expected to respond well, and Iceland's Haguems are predicting an economy of 3.9%. The next year's economic growth is driven by increased investments and increased exports. Yet, unemployment is still estimated to be high by 6.8%.• This is what our committee magazine says about the economic leaders on which the bill rests. Since the publication of these criteria, there have been darker predictions that we do not understand in the committee's opinion. What I might want to get together is that we are actually doing this in a very uncertain way, and there is little chance that I can do even worse, which I may not especially preach. I think it's much more different than that. Since then, there has been a lot of discussion about this budget and the measures there are being taken, and I'm particularly going to mention the local position. They have spoken up and were visiting what. Legal committees with great concern, normal. A lot of people worry about that. However, according to the analysis that we have been given, the country's unions have not yet become the equivalent of income contractions and financial funds. Maybe normal, it's a different combination of farm stock income. However, I think there is reason for us to discuss the general problem of the local communities and the concerns they brought to the legal committee in their comments and visits to the Committee and discussion on this financial bill. I allow me to quote this committee again, as we are trying to get a little over this discussion and try to answer it to some extent. It says, by permission of the president: As the civil rights Act puts it, the Court of Auditors has recently signed an agreement in connection with the development of financial programmes for the years 2021/2025. There, people have agreed on a common view of economic management and government of public finance during the period in question. It has aims for the development and debt of these things, including that the increase in the debt of the government as a share of VLP will be stopped by the end of 2025.◯ It is very important that we keep in mind that we need to work out our country's economy, in this good relationship between state and rural society, so we are all at ease in the same direction. Then it says: ▪ In general discussion, representatives of rural society have been required that the State Fund should be even more supportive to the rural areas than to what has already been done. It has been referred to as the support of other countries, e.g. In the North, be far more than in this country. In this discussion, it should be noted that the development and funding of rural government levels differ greatly from that in other countries and in many parts of Europe. As a result, it gives a misleading picture of comparing the support of the land's funds to the support of countries living in a completely different system. The rural population is financially independent, and compared to other countries, a larger proportion of their income is in the form of a legal income company, but it is a direct donation from a government fund. In such an arrangement, where their communities are more and less dependent on legal donations, they need to practice independent financial management and live in favor when the economy is in progress in order to get a better hold of themselves in the economy. Clearly, the pandemic and its impact on Icelandic employment has caused some rural communities who have been heavily dependent on tourism to have a high - income decrease and to endure unemployment. Thus, the financial situation of a local partner is different. Already, support has been given to the rural communities evaluated for the greatest deceleration in tourism, and advice is to further increase the support of rural persons whose feet are covered by the corrosion epidemic. The government is less than proportional in terms of income taxation, which is fully understood in terms of response to rural society. This year's tax returns to the government, not due to societies, and, indeed, miscalculation. Then there are some measures that are specifically taken for the sake of your community. This is also true in view of the future in which the State will employ investments and attractions to promote land production, thus increasing the salary and increase the prices of real estate. The state will be left with a debt of about 20% of VLPs between 2019 and 2021, while farm society debt is expected to increase less than 3% of VLPs at the same time. This is what we're talking about in our committee party, but we may say nothing more than that when people are comparing the system on land with the system in other countries, trying to conclude that we're providing little support or are not supporting them, it's not entirely comparable. However, the big movie is in my mind that the measures we have taken during the year truly benefit our rural communities. The analyses that have been performed on rural income during the year show that they are providing and making households and companies in the country, enabling them to maintain what is possible. When you've traced the economic vices and the status of the rural society in particular, and I'm not going to forget to mention that the country's situation is normally very variable all around the country, you also have to remember that not all rural society have been having a fluctuation due to tourism in recent years and may not go as far down now. True, it is impressive in many sectors, although it is difficult to handle travel services and related articles. Sometimes it has been said: We never experience the school years in the country, so we may not feel as much of the crisis as we do. There are many evidences that this teaching has proved to be true to some extent today. But there's a reason for this being mentioned by the local community, and it is the will of the government to meet them with understanding so that we are, for example. in the financial loss of rural areas, to catch the rural communities that see the greatest recession. We live in a deep, rapid crisis, and we are using the terms of government in a reasonable and responsible way to soften it over the whole community. However, from the time that the bill was submitted, it can be said that more certain of economic developments developed. On the horizon there is a vaccine that will change the condition. We now believe that life will return to normal. But we in itself do not know how society and how the economy will rise again. No doubt we will see great changes and new opportunities open, but we cannot predict how much time it will take to regain power, and we do not know how we will regain up to 300 billion valuable things in our land. We do not know this, but we believe that with the action we have taken, we have defended the factors that make us feel this way. We have not lost our natural resources, and we have not lost our will to grow and expand our use of them. We are sowing seeds for innovation and attendance, and we know that we will reap abundantly in that field, so I will allow myself to use the language I am accustomed to. However, we have put forth the primary effort to protect our employment opportunities and the financial resources of our households, and this is extremely important. We haven't taken the cuts from the state. In that way, we have not added to the problem. We are defending the improvements and the growths that important community foundations have been going through in recent years, especially during the time of the present government. This is what we are doing to restore economic growth and resurrection. It is difficult to predict the future, but powerful economic growth is predicted, as was the case earlier. I want to believe, though, that growth can be even more powerful and even more efficient than we are today. This is especially true in comparison with one of the financial committees that we have considered in terms of the land's recession, that it became faster in this country than in many of the countries we compare with. This may also indicate that the resurrection here can be of far greater significance than in those lands. But such prophecies and such speculations I have here may not be included in the traditional predictions that we generally support. Also, it is not unusual to conclude that people's values change, that the willingness to travel in a foreign land will be limited, but we might also enjoy it, as part of the resistance we hope for, when people's travel limits are released. Values are subject to post-traumatic changes and will not be the same, e.g. attitudes about important factors, such as health care, especially those employed there. Their work is much better appreciated by such losses that they have had to endure. Surely, there is reason to thank all the people and other reactants who have been busy the past few months for their work. The effects can also be seen in young people's choice of learning. All of these are factors that will await us as challenges in the future. But first of all, I'd like to mention that there are many signs of our reaction being working. The response is not least helpful to the communities, as I previously traced, because according to analysis, if we look to the current year, there has not been a drop in income as there has been a trust fund; normal in some part of the way, as I traced earlier, where income stocks are somehow different. I'm just going to say again that I'm not trying to minimize the problem of my team members and their situation is very different. I want this to be said only to remind you that the government fund is borrowing a lot of money to live up to these actions. According to today's renovations, next year's state funds will be about 320 billion dollars. In the current year, some 270 billion have been in progress. The reality is that taxes, or income, of a government fund, are only right about 70% of these expenses. It's a very serious situation. And, a respectable president, we play very close and there's little chance that this can't work out. But the wealth of the state is a common fund for our people, so it is relevant to what policy is being set. The growing and paying loads of the loans we're taking will follow us for years. I know a well - known background of government funds that will be a tight place for you to wear for the next few years. For the most part, the public spending is a extrapolation of large social projects that most of us would like to protect. The money now laid out for investments, and it has been criticized in this discussion by individual speakers who need to be small, must give us future growth and make progress, reduce costs, and build up opportunities for parishion. Thus, the suggestions for buying and investing are designed to create the means for coping with the future of the temporary recession that we believe we have a great opportunity to restore. For a long time, we can promise that the wealth of the Kingdom could be successful in coping with this problem. After a financial breakdown about a decade ago, he lost debt and had the opportunity to restore the foundation of society. But the big difference between this fall today and for a decade ago is that we eventually received considerable funds that strengthened our government funds, with both donations and, most important, with powerful economic growths that were successful, and all of it was an accomplishment. Since none of such whales are now available for distribution, the restoration is of such infinite importance. This is not the last blow we face or the sudden crisis. Hence, it is so crucial that it succeeds in the right state funds as soon as possible in the economic growth and the use of its responsible income. We cannot tax ourselves from this position. We must be able to grow, grow, and grow as a community. The risk is primarily in my mind that we have not grown and that we have not reached the right state funds from when the next one might fall on us. A respectable president. That's what I'm at the top of 2nd. The budget is 2020, when I look over the currents and direction from my point of view. It is in this spirit that the government and the majority of the legal committees have worked and laid the basis for making donations for 2021. The resistance and protection for the homes and companies, the drag for society to rise up quickly - that is the real motto of the policy presented in the budget. Out of the individual details of the bill, of the factors involved in other projects, I would like to mention - unfortunately, I have found little attention, perhaps within the circumstances of this matter - recovery in public administration and investment, which is significant in the coming years to get public service to a digital form. It's two ways to win. We will make the ministry more efficient and inexpensive for the long term, but we are adding significantly to everyone's access to public service. I have high hopes for the revolution that we are taking on the first steps into which there will be more self - efficiency and more digital solutions in our relations with the administrations to do their business, which, as I mentioned earlier, can give us complete access to public service. Second, I'd like to mention changes to the budget bill, which a greater proportion of the legal committee proposes, which is an increase in the intensity of the exchange cost of electricity. That's a big heart thing to do, right? At times, I would like to say these things quite differently than we have so far. In the discussion so far, it has been said that we are evening the cost of mass exchange between the most expensive markets in urban areas and rural areas, called rural development. To me, this is the opposite. When we arranged the electrical energy system and the funding of the EU's network between 2003 and 2005, the decision was made to understand the structure of the Longest power distribution system in Iceland, in the hands and on the shoulders of a small group of people in this country. The decision was made to have a special deposit in urban and rural areas so that the cost of urban electricity was most practical, with the recycling of the electrical network at this time almost all around the park and a small need for investment compared to that of the rural population. The amount of money we contribute, 730 million, in this budget bill is to reduce the share between 49% and 85% of the rural and urban sectors, and then to add a greater proportion of legal committees to the other proposals it makes, from September 1, over 90 million. This equation is completely achieved. It is important that we understand that there may not be a final victory, since there are a number of factors that need to be resolved there. However, we should not be much more concerned about this wealth, which is now up to 2 billion dollars. in the balance of energy costs, as a special contribution to the State Fund from the urban population for not participating in building up a network throughout the country or in the rural area in Iceland? As we look at the state fund as it is today, because I called the electrical distribution system, I want to say that a lot of companies in this area are owned. Now, I'm going to make it clear that I'm not preaching personal development in this field, although it was a natural interesting discussion, I'm not going to give it away. However, several companies are owned by the State, and it might well be noted whether we could not arrange their work in other ways to make more use of the money so that we are not using the government funds for these equations but, rather, can let the companies themselves be relieved of their financial resources, so that we are not bringing in these large donations in this way. Actually, I'd like to go even further and jump this company up. I would, for example. to take the energy production out of Rarci and combine it with the Power Farm of the West and to make Energy Factors a clean power company; to put down the energy market, the person who sells electricity, and then unites the distribution sector of Raiks and Orcs Vestunfjörður in another company, making it a clean distribution company. I'm not saying this in any other way, but because we can sharpen the vision of these companies very much, and we can make them a much more powerful tool to achieve our political goals. I'd like to say that we agree on the fact that in this room, no matter what group we are, we want this fundamental community, which is electricity consumption, which is equal between people. There's a big and big stage we can reach with this financial bill in raising the equation, first, at the top of the initiative. Prime Minister, and then with a fine solid solidarity, I hope that I will be here at the council to take the step to the full. This is a much larger community, but perhaps it is possible to conclude when you first consider it and a very important matter. In itself, there might be many other matters that might be presented as more than a section of the budgetary committee, but I do not intend to list all that list. But I'd like to mention here one form of online security. We propose money to open up to international Internet security centres involved in their activities so that we are actually entering the national community and keeping on the Internet security. There is no question that Internet attacks have increased dramatically, especially in today's epidemic. Sadly, we do not know much about them; neither do we know how extensive they are. But with involvement in these Internet security sites, we simply improve our perspective and take decisive action. The general public will be aware of this if people are affected by privacy, if personal data or delicate financial information, but Internet security is multi-item and wide-scale, and in Internet security situations, they can be called community security. Much of the legal committee's work has found that this need to be paid more than that and to reorganize various activities. Whether we look at security and defense or the communications systems of various types or electronic systems, and so on, we are very much looking for security, for what is over the Internet, to be in a better structure and a better view. False attacks and threats are at risk of peace, social cohesion, and safety in areas. So that we can defend our community and democratic values, we need to cooperate with other nations. So that we can be a nation among the nations, we make it possible for us to have access to these Internet security sites. In the past, we need to integrate a number of factors and greatly enhance our view of activities that are now being expelled in various ways, if I just put it in this way, and at various levels of society. We have to deal with Internet security on a greater level and responsibility than we have so far. A respectable president. It was such a rush over the fine work of autumn, which was unusual this time, when the election had been delayed and a financial bill was submitted under special circumstances. We're in trouble now. The budget to cover the five budgets this year. I hope it never comes back this year, which is about to pass. But I'm going to finish my speech by saying that in many ways I feel that uncertainty has diminished from the point of view that the budget was submitted. This will cause the virus to run out. The grand task is to cope with the community and the economic situation that rises from the ruins of what we have experienced in recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u97	President. I'd like to ask you why. A senator about things I've been asking about several times in this financial discussion. It's about the biographer agreements, i.e. Life agreements for the people who are on public contributions or who are actually employees of the state without a strike-out rights. Got it. It would be natural for a senator to receive only 3.6% of the people on unemployment or pension, either elderly or disability, when the same benefits were actually due, in relation to the biographies made by the government, to increase by 7.1% in order to maintain the balance created in the biographies? The centenarian increase would be especially to equal the less paid ones. Is it not reasonable that these public, state - state groups are responsible because these people do not have the right to strike and cannot really negotiate their wages, receive comparable benefits, and gain general employment markets because of 69. Social security laws say that there is a common pay development? Indeed, it is calculated as an average development over all the pay. But looking at how the biographies were implemented, they were particularly paid for the lowest wage. Would it not, then, be reasonable to view those who are making progress to the public in the same way?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u98	Madam President. We've had these words regularly, me and what. A senator, a discussion of various financial matters, and the answers are all well - known in advance. Hv. A senator criticizes the methodology used to calculate the rise of these charges, and my answer is: we're doing it according to the laws that apply to it. There has been no other evidence. Whether this is abnormal - this is the way we are using it and therefore has been used in the letter of law and in the work that we've had in the past few years. Then we can have some idea whether we're going to tie up an increase in these biases in some other way. Then I'd like to say, "What I think we need to do in particular about the retirement of an older citizen is, "Who do we have contracts or insurance? ' In my mind, pay is due to senior citizens' insurance pensions or social guarantees for survival. There's a lot of difference. The question remains: Are we breaking the law? Is a criminal offense in the project we're building the budget on, i.e. when we're doing this? Wait a minute. A senator to answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u99	A respectable president. I have the answer here, but I'm going to go out on this on the 69th floor anyway. She's a little strange. It's a question of whether this is something the Parliament, the legislatator, was going to do when the law was set up, whether pensions, according to 69. g., should follow general pay development, which is not a well-defined term, as the Allied agent pointed out, or if this is just a projection of general pay development. That's the problem with the 69th grade. Based on the ways of the General Act, e.g. With regard to the salary of members of Congress, it is certainly a real gain, for we thought it was the right arrangement for the salary of the senators to base on the actual financial development that had taken place in the past year instead of simply predicting future labor development for the next year. However, it is the policy of the government that I have been criticizing and criticizing in my introduction to committees earlier today. It was the policy of the government to make biographies in this way, which are firmly established in a manner that differs from that of 69 C.E. the answer is no longer valid. I understand that here comes a budget based on the law and the calculations as they are, but the government on the other hand and, in fact, the council should say, "No, here's not the basis for the law in 69." .. and this requires the approach and policy of the government to address the calculations there, as has often been done before. It has been added to, beyond the legal increase according to Article 69.g. I'm asking: Isn't that exactly what it is about right now because of the biographer contracts for these groups?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u100	Madam President. Hv. A senator has made his point of view clear, and he has reasoned well. In effect, he asks: " Should I have abandoned the law because this is how we decided on the basis of biographies? ' That's really the question. The answer to me is: At least it wasn't done. Whether or not we should have, I'm not going to say, but we've followed this algorithm in 69. g. for years. She hasn't been changed, but we agree on that, me and him. Senator, this procedure needs to be explained. There's obviously a wide range of places in it where this difference is formed as a dog. A senator, for example, has also drawn up numbers in many talks he has given here. So that's what I'm saying: we're going to use this procedure by this rule. Then there is another subject and another source behind the lifetime contracts that I feel do not have to apply in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u101	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech, and he only wants to step in on the ground with him here in answer. Hv. A senator also came onto the agriculture in response to what he was doing. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson, who discussed his concern for the situation in this article, took my heart to them. What I wanted to ask you. The senator's conclusion is that now the situation is serious, i.e. The collection is very high, and on top of it all there is a mismanagement of customs. There has been a lot more land-emission than allowed by contracts, and there is now overexploitation in the European Union for the virus epidemic, but the European Union has been able to import goods into our market, which is fully and more than allowed by contracts, so all of which have caused enormous problems in agriculture such as economic conditions. A senator knows. Now I'd like to ask you what. A senator into the actions that have been attacked, which I personally believe are good as far as they can go, but they actually arrive quite late. There are over 700 million for sheep, and more than 200 million for cattle to pray for the supply. What other articles, e.g. Pork production, where there's a lot of supply? A high supply is also found in milk proteins, and so was the whale. Senator that animals cannot be taken to slaughter, etc. for the condition. Counts 'em out. A senator that there is enough to be set up here on the part of the government and what about the rest of the articles that have not received any support, as I mentioned here? Does he see fit to meet them?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u102	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. That's interesting, and I know that what. A senator shares my view, to examine now how all the rules of the competition have been replaced, toward agricultural production in the European Union. I want to start there and say that the core of it is that when such conditions arise, or when we face such conditions as we are dealing with them, the nations turn to put their arms around their agriculture and protect them from further trauma. Farming is a business of long manufacturing. The decisions made today may be made in a product in 20◯24 months, so you do not turn the ship so easily. The Senator asks if the action being proclaimed at 2nd is now being carried out. are sufficient and should be included in other habitats. I think the point of this is simply that, first of all, it's being taken, as I said in the contrast here earlier today, with the conditions that can become very serious at home and that are just the welfare of the animals. Second, the market is much more narrow, with fewer consumers. Therefore, this supply problem is due to the situation here and elsewhere in the world or at our very next markets for the reduction. Hv. A senator mentioned at the outset a trade project and supervised it. I agree with what. A senator and I know that work is taking them to a better place. It was very exposed and striking, let's just say it this way, see how the project was broken in a number of ways, and I know that there are improvements in these areas, and of course it needs to be okay and that we should respect the international agreements we make.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u103	Madam President. Thank you. Senator. Of course, the incident in agriculture has taken place because of the outbreak is much, but getting this on top of it is actually a double blow, i.e. and that agricultural imports should be brought in in in far more than is permitted according to contracts. Then maybe I'd like to do that about the customs deal we've discussed here. Now it's time to change the sending process, i.e. to adopt an older process or method which means that a lower amount is expected to come in here. We've had the opinion of the Central Party, and I believe, it must simply be delayed. The situation is so serious that we must make use of all the resources we have. I had a conversation with the highest. A minister on these matters in unsubstantiated inquiries pointed to the fact that we must respect agreements. But I tell them against it, what. Senator: Is it not clear that the European Union is not respecting any agreements in this regard today? In the European Union, they fully support their agriculture, and at the same time, they are trying to get this large excess of Europe into another market and including here to Iceland through a contract that appears to be defective after all. I'll simplify it for you. A member of Parliament: Is he following the fact that this invitation will simply be postponed temporarily in an effort to reduce the amount of excess in the system and on farms and in storage places in most places?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u104	A respectable president. I started my first answer to what? A senator should simply pick up a thread in which I was a little trying to describe how the European Union's government was being replaced by certain rules. I'm going to agree with you. A senator, of course, should look to that fact when we compete with it. I just think it's the right thing and the logical thing to do. A senator to mention whether we are going to complete the agreements we have made. I know that this is a reassessment of that contract, and it has certainly not worked for the production here at home in the European market. Hv. A senator speaks of a double blow when the law and the rules for import have not been followed. I'm just saying, as I said earlier, if there's shards in it, then, of course, it has to be fixed, and there's nothing in it. It'll be fixed. It is not possible to offer a profession to compromise laws that undermine its competitiveness. Hv. A senator asked if invitations should be postponed. I think we should look for ways to tackle this situation. The action being proclaimed at 2nd. Money is only part of further action to be taken because of agricultural production and farming in the country. I can say what. A senator: Whether next week or early in a new year, I believe that a number of factors will be revised. I want to point 'em. A senator of a very good report published on the Department of Employment last night on competitive legislation and the comparison of competitive legislation and the work of the environment from abroad. There is a very interesting reading, very good for us, and we need to put our arms around it and make our domestic production the same competitive conditions as other farmmakers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u105	A respectable president. We are now at 2nd. ... abouta financial bill for the coming years. We're a little late on these budgets, but maybe that's not unusual, considering. Many times we've been late, and if it doesn't happen right now, I don't really know when. I've been on a 2013 budget board, except for last session, and this is probably the most unusual time, both in the budget and in the other, except for all the five funds that we've taken in charge of and the laws on public finances, perhaps should be unnecessary. My colleagues in the greater part of the budget have done well with the basics, but I'm going to kill on a few things and start talking about the angle. State funds will be fired at a sum of over 320 billion dollars. Do it now. This is first and last due to the results of Covid-19. Economic standards are fundamental to budgeting, as they expect 7.5% of the EU's GDP by the year; however, at least 4% increase in interest next year. This is based on the relaxation of the disease prevention in the coming year and the slightly increased number of tourists. It's like everything is dependent on a lot of uncertainty over the pandemic. Since the lay of the bill, the Haguess Office has not produced a new national forecast, but it did. In November, he predicted that the contractions during the year were 8.5% and that economic growth would be slightly lower than expected or 2.3%. But fortunately, at the beginning of this election period, the status of a government fund was strong and she was new to lower even the debt of a state fund. At the same time, there was scope for improving health, health, education, and transportation structure to follow the ambitious objectives of the government, including in the environment and in the climate, as well as the contribution to support the collective labour agreements, including in the form of the three-stage tax system, most useful to the busiest in society. It is important to keep in mind this discussion that there has been an ever - increasing increase in donations to the vast area over the years. Thus contributions to innovation, research and knowledge fields have increased by nearly 74%, environmental contributions by more than 48% and culture, and a list of more than 30%. If you look at the numbers of crowns, the increase in health and social matters is the most important thing in the world, and we're protecting the welfare even when you're at the edge of the road. Then, as some have done, I want to thank all our prominent people, whether in the medical sector or elsewhere in the community, who have been watching for the rest of us. Health - care contributions outside hospitals have increased by some 34 billion throughout the period and by contributions to the affairs of disability and the disabled by 15 billion, to well over 214 billion and to the elderly over 11 billion. These are large sums of money, and they are important to the people living in that country and improving their lives. A respectable president. The local community's topic has been prominent in the recent discussion, particularly the dissatisfaction of individual rural communities and likely the majority of those who came to a legal committee with contributions from an equation fund. However, we need to keep it up, not minimizing the problems of rural society, since it is certainly much better in some areas than in other areas, that in recent years the contributions have increased by as much as 3.5 billion a year, and the rural communities enjoy this increase. And because the funds are built up as they are, the economic recession is inevitable. However, a financial committee has called for information on the development of the fund and on the importance of counterimbursement. It is our opinion in the greater part that it is important to improve the smaller areas of rural society to the extent that they are expected to be affected and that we have already done so with the travel services known as their survival in travel services. I'd like to go to a special field of subjects and start with the nurses. We received reports of an increase in space of 185 since 2017. At the same time, 119 spaces were removed to improve housing status, i.e. They were building a farm. This means more than 7% increase of space during the period, but over the years it is expected that there will be an additional 500 space. This figure assumes that an additional 1,700 million people in this category are expected to increase space, but they also try to take some part of their nursing weight. This is important because there is now work at the Ministry of Health for reviewing the daily expenses that have often been discussed, and there have been disagreements; contributions are not in harmony with the required service. We felt that there was reason to try to face this in some way now until the committee has returned. A respectable president. As discussed above, farmers of this land have not been affected by the effects of the crown virus. The reduction in the number or extent of elimination of tourists has reduced market demand in the market. It is estimated to correspond to over 30,000 consumers in the country during the year. Sales of sheep and wool products have also been reduced considerably, and the price for cattle farmers has also been reduced. Unfortunately, only in part because of the difficulty in the situation before the Covid struck, the government's resources have been effective in this case. That is why more than 240 million are expected. K. a contribution to cow farmers and more than 720 million. K. a contribution to the sheep farmers. This is extremely important. to the importance of being self-sustained with food in this country. It is only a matter of supporting the farmers of this country. Today, Iceland's very first food policy was introduced, which is a great source of joy. The transporter's elimination affects so much, including the survival of Istavia, who has, unfortunately, led to a decision to establish a state-of-the-state agreement with Istavia, where it was intended to take over the operations and maintenance of the Lagil State Zone. So I'm glad I've made a decision on the budget to give 450 million. K. This is why a donation is made. A respectable president. It is in itself a lot of work to take into account what is being added to money because you feel that we are actually a little bit of a reciprocated. Likely, these discussions have rarely been added or never at all to the same extent, or about 55 billion. I loved the schools, and they were given extensive publicity on the committee. The majority suggest that more than 3 billion are added to high school, and that includes. Making up for growth in high school because experience from collapse showed that study motivated the community and the economy to repopulate. It is also assumed, and I think it is a very important factor, a tool called study is an opportunity for jobseekers and is an opportunity to participate in studies both in the college and the after-school studies. I sure hope that as many as possible can take advantage of that. At the university, we are adding more than 2.5 billion to discussions, and this is largely due to the estimated increase in students and the nature of the case, according to the largest part of Iceland's University. But I'm glad that it's well added both to the University of Akureyri, to the College of Agriculture, and to the University of Hólar. Sports and youth activities have also been very well discussed, and particularly the effects, in particular, have had on many sports activities because meeting restrictions have been like we know, preventing normal sports activities. This has resulted in a huge loss of income, since audiences cannot be kept when they could be involved in sports and, of course, as if it were advertising. The government has presented suggestions for some improvement in the form of support, and there are 470 million more on this project. This is part of a plan of 850 million. K. Support for sports and youth members and the rest of them are in the budgets we're going to make up the 2nd over. A respectable president. Many people may come up with big eyes when they hear the words memorizing and the environment in the same sentence. However, this is a proposal for a contribution because of the proposed environmental agreement with the manufacturers of the mnemonic industry. The Environment and Resource Ministry, the Department of Transport and Division, and the Department of Employment and Development, contributes to a total of 30 billion. K. and in the bill to the budget is put to 50 million. If both suggestions are met, some 160 million will be expected in two years. And, yes, this is not a small amount, and many people don't agree with environmental considerations, but the aim of this project is to investigate the benefits of less - than - cost organic waste from food producers. This aim supports a general waste prevention policy, combined with waste management. There are already problems with the disposal of biohazardous waste, which is located in the feed of a hairy animal, and is expected to become a major problem. I'd like to say, of course, it's a very old tradition. Some fashion homes have, for example. Re-use in view of environmentally friendlyity. New methods, e.g. In reduction of acidification, both pollution and carbon sporation have decreased very much, up to 90%. There is a lot of talk in itself, but we're using here in my opinion a better way than many others because many independent studies have shown that the production of skin is environmentally than production in most textil. A study conducted at the University of Helsinki can be quoted as showing 80 times less carbon track by a mink jacket than is the case with e.g. You can quote one of these and other studies. So I think maintaining this operation is a good and worthy task. I may bet one another, but I would like to mention also that the Allied agent requested additional support, including Due to the initiative studies, OPCAT projects and other projects the agent has received, and this is it. The tax is also made an additional donation because it has received much of the work that has been done here; support on reporting, partial reforms, maintenance grants, all jobs, and other items that have been found on the tax table, which I also believe is the best way to do this. So there are many things to think about. I'd also like to mention that there's an estimated 500 million here. K. a donation to fairness of interest due to strains where disabled children were saved in years earlier. We took care of that case from a full-scale educational committee this morning that will hopefully be taken up immediately after the weekend. Also, I would like to mention smaller tasks because they are often forgotten in large billions of ways that we are always talking about. However, they are extremely important to those who enjoy them, and they produce an amazing number of jobs. Not a lot of money, but it makes an amazing number of jobs. Here, for example. modeling about 20 million. K. A temporary contribution to the Rapid, a innovation project in Húsavík, is the cooperation project of many parties and is involved in creating a number of jobs. It also suggests a temporary contribution to the Coalition of Coalitions and Developers and KENN because of the basic education and introductions of Icelandic intelligence abroad. We add to the 100 million parish plans, and that is in addition to what has been put before this year in one of the budgets of 200 million. K. was added. I believe the money is the most efficient thing in the national parish programmes because of setting priorities for the parts of the country as they think it best, and the rural communities also say that these are one of the best donations they enjoy. We also contribute 25 million. K. contributes to the cooperation project of the Federal Protection Agency and the Council of the Northern States over a service site in Húsavík, where the number of public employees is being increased by two, i.e. A lawyer and an office man. All of this, in my opinion, is important, even though we may not be talking about huge sums of money in the big context. I'd like to agree with my friend, Haraldur, the son of Benediktsson, on the payment of public expenses. We're going up to 85% subsidies, but starting on September 1 next year, we're going to have a down payment of 100%. I think it's really important. We need to be careful, too, that there is no need for any rise in registers, so this certainly brings benefits to all of those under it. We suggest that contributions be made to the plant. I'm pleased to say that we also contribute to the National Law Hall, the son of Simonstein, the son of Paulus, the gathering of Iceland's Flyers, RIFF, Skaftfells, the Department of Technologies of the East and the Children's Culture; support to many smaller parties that are so important here. I think there's a lot of people that like to celebrate and make a lot of money out of it. There is also a proposal for temporary contributions due to improvements in Iceland's Farming University on Smokes in Elfus, and the need for a field analysis for agricultural research of Innunus was requested. The school's seminary for gardening has been unashamed recently, and with this contribution, hopefully improvements in some of the school's housing will be completed, but it would certainly have to be done in the need and design for future living and a construction of the facilities for agricultural research of Innunus. They were transferred from Corpu but suffer a lack of facilities. A respectable president. We are also posting funds to the Multi-education, Long-term Education and Knowledge Centres, and making contributions to the East Bridge and to other parties. I didn't mean to talk for a very long time, but there are so many things to go over because there are often assumes that little has been done. But this is in addition to so many other things. This is a suggestion that children's damage limits increase to the rhythm of minimum income insurance. There are about 4.2 million for a single parent and 3.9 for those who live together. It is also added because of social assistance for families and in caring for their families. It is also suggested that the State's Habitat and Counseling Centre receive additional funds. There's a lot of other things going on here. The '78 Synod of prevention of sexual and sexual violence and harassment, along with a plan. There is also a contribution made to the police on this matter, funds to promote resources in the form of leisure activities and association with children, etc. The consumer organisation also receives support, which I believe is very important in these times. They have said that increased pressures were evident in all kinds of situations, including those in the first century C.E. ... inexpectingexchanges, tenants, industrialists, and so forth. I think it's important that we stay close. This is suggested by about 15 million to extend support to the police in the capital area because it seems that there is a need for increased prevention and support for children in a more sensitive position. Madam President. At the end, I want to remind you again and again that many of the things I've spoken about, e.g. The eastern bridge and other parties are the government's work to negotiate. We have repeatedly emphasized this in our financial work. The same thing with the '78 Union, the cause of Akureyri, which we have here, the Grófin, the Pita organization, that grabs people when they're all at the worst. There's a lot of harassment, as we've heard, in this social activity and it's so necessary to our community, and I'm convinced that we all want it. Therefore, I believe the Ministry of these seminaries settles down to the bargaining table with this organisation and ensures that their activities are not subject to temporary contributions each year. It is energy-free and time-consuming, creating a lot of uncertainty, not just for the staff who work for these organizations, but also for those who make use of the ministry. Madam President. I'm going to finish my story. Many good things have been done here, and I am convinced that there is light ahead. A vaccine is on its way, and we have a lot of money for a vaccine. I don't think people looked forward to being vaccinated, but I think there are a lot of people in that situation right now. So the light is coming. I believe we're going to work this thing out real fast. There are some things here that support your resistance, and I have full faith that this will happen sooner than later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u106	President. The same question I had for what? Counciller of the Haraldur son of Benediktsson, in regard to the contracts of life. I can't figure out why the government can make policy decisions to go up and down with the labor movement, but it didn't meet the same policy for government forwarders, who are in the lowest salary. So I just wanted to start by asking a very simple question: "Do you feel it? In terms of social insurance or unemployment, a senator was not justified by the fact that people who are making progress in public with pensions - is it not a righteous requirement for people to get the same increase as people with the lowest salary paid for life insurance?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u107	A respectable president. I wonder if the senator has just received a similar answer as he has previously received from me and others about it. Here we have a legal column underneath. We must also consider that reasonableness is one thing, and our legal environment is another. We have often discussed how we should work this out. First of all, certain things have been done. Fortunately, we've been trying to fix and improve, for example. among the elderly, the lowest income tenant, and we need to do even better. That's for sure. But I think there's something going on with us. A senator has done so himself today, along with other members of the council in protest. To explain it better, i.e. That's the conclusion we have in front of us, the method we use to do this. I don't think we can go away from her and look to any agreements, whether it's lifetime contracts now or any other bargain deal at any given time, other than what the law expects. However, it is our responsibility to wonder: " Do we want to change the law we do by doing?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u108	A respectable president. Reasonableness is one thing, and the law is another, says lawgiver. That's one of the most interesting statements I find in my life. Senator. Let's look at the songs that were approved last week, the income drop-back value, a 40% raise for an enterprise which has had a 60% loss of income. Today, financial resources are being spoken of as making money for farmers, cow farmers, and sheep farmers. The products discussed here have been worth 14%. Still, we were agreeing to a law on income dropbacks of 40 to 60%. All of a sudden, there is no question of reasonableness or law. Now, suddenly, something else can be done, a different course. Why is it not the same here for the people who are on the lowest public performance when making a special decision not to go up in general, but for the lowest paid raise? Why is it impossible to make the same decision in terms of social security that has been done before in the series, 2010 or 2011, when higher than the legal requirements in question? It's been done before. It can be done again. Here we are an example in making a decision to go up to the lowest paying people, but now the same decision is not made for the same people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u109	A respectable president. We're getting close in a different way, that's for sure. I don't have the same understanding of it as what it is. A senator argues here, because labour agreements are anything but a pension wage. It's just that way, whatever we think of it. When I talk about fairness, we may feel that things are unfair or reasonable, so I just ask the senator not to put words in my mouth like I thought he was doing here earlier. We can have a view of the law we follow: Is it reasonable, or is it not reasonable? That's what I think here is talking about. For farmers, because I've found a little talk about them as if they're not families and people underneath who are low-payers, which they really are, and here they are, being put in, like a dog. A senator mentioned that we have been doing with the most money - consuming, both the elderly and the desperate, by means of certain payments, as he well knows. To go through the whole system of this population, and the underlying factors are just something we need to consider if we think it is necessary, whether the law needs to change, that it is not clear and that it needs some other reference than it does. But I believe they're being guided by the standards they have.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u110	Madam President. I'd like to ask about one small thing I'd rather do in front of. A senator, touching the strength of a fur man. The Senator said that there would be an assignment to find out how less uses organic waste again. I just want to ask, What do we need to consider? Minks have eaten organic waste from the beginning, which is about 90 to 95% of what comes to them. Minkafa is a source of sludge and waste from fish farms and slaughterhouses and has always been the case. So I'd like to roll it up with a bang. A senator may see if this is some well - intentioned attempt to strengthen the support of a lost branch. Mincation was in trouble before the effects of Covid were taken care of. Would it not be better to sit down with those who work in this sector to discuss whether to look for ways to get out of the mines so that people don't get into even more trouble when the sector collapses, which would be as likely, rather than be constantly adding some patches, such as checking how it goes to feed less than they've been given in the last 80 years?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. It's like the farmers and the others we've been talking about. Some may also want to place more or less sheep's flocks, cut back on farms, and find it convenient to do so. These are not profitable articles, such as whales. A senator may also be discussing here, that this is not good and that this is not wise. I'm still going to remember that Iceland's animal travel laws, like what they're doing. A senator likely knows one of the most progressive laws when it comes to the expensive. We know that the use of skin is a millennium tradition. And, as I said before, some fashion houses have taken back use of furskins because it is environmentalized, but many other things they have been using instead, including. It's made of plastic and stuff, and it's got a much higher level of carbon. In view of the situation in Denmark, we have received wishes that we may have the best stock in the country. Despite everything, and even though it's not a large stock in this country, there's a higher price. There is hope that animals can be also exported, i.e. "biological sale." It yields quite a bit, and we have a good stock. I think when we have an animal we can use, we should try to do it. I'd also like to say it's about disposal of waste that's in fur feed. In case of a moment. A senator has read the opinion of the greater part here says that the aim is to investigate the benefits of the reduction in organic waste produced by food producers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Although they ate waste all along, we may actually be able to see even better and more efficient methods that are greener and that we can help farmers make the whole operation greener. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u112	Mr. President. What I pause to do is why we need to examine the benefits of something that is already done. Any special effort to investigate the benefits of organic waste on a certain level suggests that a new process is being adopted, not to examine the benefits of what is either being done. I'd appreciate it if people would just come to the door and say that they wanted to help furturbs to keep seawater on this trip rather than make some project. So the Senator may explain to me more what this project is about to add to the knowledge that is already in the mines. In terms of how progressive we are in cost - making, remember that when it comes to memory, they are not at all. For example, it was added a bill on the final meters allowed to drown in the wild. Similarly, there is not necessarily what we would like to do about animal travel. Using a carbon track to justify something that may not have been criticized by carbon principles, but rather an expensive journey, it is being guided into a course that it does not need to be involved. We can only deal with the situation that it is not a matter of wanting to shut down this branch. Rather, we can face that it will probably fall down within not too long. [[The president calls.]] Would it not be better for the State to step in, as was the case with the Shire Forest project in its time east, helping these farmers to have a bright future even if they failed? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u113	A respectable president. Happily, we are supporting the forest prayer, both in the east and elsewhere. I think that's part of it. Of course, this includes the carbon track. Whether you work with a variety of plastics or other surrogates that leave behind much more paces, you cannot overlook it. We've made changes in the welfare of these animals. We even did. The desire of the ministries, and the part wherewith we help them, let us help them, as it were. A senator should be less motivated, on increased and better equipment in the article. I'm the kind of person who wants to have a variety of jobs. The farmers around here have been building up for decades, and I don't really think that these articles will fail. There's just a difference of opinion about it, like so many other things. So I don't agree with what. Senator on this. I believe this will prove to be a very good project. I also think that as we look at the rise of prices in the light of a changed world situation, this article will bring about a dramatic collapse and become part of the nation's productive exports.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u114	Mr. President. We will discuss a bill for the budget of 2021 and are in 2nd. I'm not going to go through the committee's opinion of more of the budget board. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, did so in more detail today, and other members of Parliament have likewise done so. However, I would like to withdraw some of the points from the discussion. First, I feel that it is important to maintain that by means of the budget bill submitted on October 1, the past, mid - Covid, the decision was made to protect an important social system. This is done regardless of the fact that the government's income is contracting, but the need for expenses, including those involved. As a result of unemployment and increased pressures on the social systems, there is a growing trend. Here is the important way, not to cut down, but to meet the increase by contributing. I think it's important to keep this discussion in mind. Change proposals for the budget are unusually high, both in the number of donations and in the budget being added. It may not be surprising that when society goes through the deepest economic crisis for over 100 years, it would be better if it did not have to go deeply into the financial and financial laws of the State under those circumstances. That's exactly why we're discussing the adjustment proposal to the budget a little later than originally scheduled for the General Work Programme. With more of the budget's legal proposals, about The 55 billion increase in budget and most of the changes proposed are due to Covid. But there are also other suggestions that are offered and that are often lower, which can be said to take place at every discussion of the budget when digging deeper into things, for of course it is that in spite of Covid, there are various things and aspects of our society that are walking their own routine. There, too, you need to be aware that the budget and suggestions on this are not directly related to the epidemic. This is, you might say, two types of action, one of the major major and directly involved in the consequences of Covid, and another perhaps more traditional event that we are familiar with from a normal year's trip. In particular, I would like to mention that there are suggestions here that cover a total of over 30 billion and relate to market operations and unemployment. This includes an operation that I think we all agree that has been extremely important throughout this period, and that is the part-change process. The budget is being provided to extend and maintain good management until the following year. Already specific payments have been raised for the children of jobseekers. I think it was very important to do, and this is also suggested to put money into extending that resource, which I believe is also extremely important. There are many more suggestions for changing jobs and markets, but I'm not going to go through them here. Of course, those interested in it can study it in a very detailed committee program more than a portion of the legal committee, which is on the right of more than 45 pages. As noted, there is a large rise in education at both college and college levels. It is that my knowledge of a very sensible and important reaction to increasing unemployment, both making it possible for my school students to accept more students who want to use this time to expand their education, but more also the part of the increase in education, which is directly linked to employment management and useful to people who are unemployed and who are called study opportunities. Here I believe that we are in a difficult journey and difficult situation, putting money on a matter that is important to the future because it is necessary to support people at this point in order to strengthen their positions of education and, hopefully, in a job market so that they will have increased education when they grow back, hopefully to the end. There's also a lot of money being spent on public and welfare projects, as well as family matters, and I'd like to mention some examples. There are dozens of coins that run at tens but up to hundreds of millions in support of various community groups, including the U.S.A. young people and older ones Here is a contribution to promote social support for disabled children and young people and to support the parents of disabled children and young people. Then there are those who are large enough to recognize the seriousness of their issues, as they have faced us in recent years, and it is important to support them. Also, there are the funds being provided here to promote the social activities of the elderly, who I think are very important, since the group that has experienced an increased impact of isolation in this epidemic is the group. Then there's a case very special to me, but maybe I don't run to the highest, that's a contribution to the '78 Associations of 20 million. This is added to the funding the organization is already receiving from the Ministry of Presidency. The '78 Association is of utmost importance when it comes to support and education, both peer instruction and education for candidates and schools. When youths are realizing that they belong to the gay community and are finding themselves there, the organization gives tremendous support. It is so important to strengthen our young ones during their formative years when they are discovering their feelings, so this is the amount of money I consider to be extremely well arranged and, of course, they support matters that we present for this occasion at the council and are touching sexual autonomy. The '78 organizations have certainly made a difference there, including in the support and training of young people who are young. There is also the addition of funding to follow procedures related to the Council's Directive on the prevention of sexual and sexual violence and harassment. Once the budget was set up for that pre-emptive programme, this one is being reassigned. This is also a matter in which the largest amount may not be the case, and they exchange several parties, but it is, in my opinion, an important issue, and especially for the future, since it is very important to bring in preemptive instruction so that future generations are better informed. And this, of course, is the way to eliminate sexual and sexual violence and harassment. I'm going to, Mr. President, don't keep this any further, I've been affecting a few of the matters that are very important to me here and I may not have been so much discussed in other talks here today. Of course, much of the legal committee's opinion is far and thorough. And as I said here in the beginning, I feel perfectly normal that in a financial crisis like the one we're going through right now, there are discussions about the budgets of the coming year, as well as the improvements proposed, many and detailed, because it really matters to us that we all live well in our society because we're not just going through the crisis right now, but we're going to have a community that's strong for the future. I believe that today's budget is an important part of our ability to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u115	President. It may surprise no one what I'm going to ask. I asked why. A senator about that in 1st. to the budget or to the financial plan whether it felt justified that those groups in the state's contributions by pension, disability or unemployment were to have the same elevation as those negotiated in biographies. Then the answers weren't too clear, and I was just in front of it. A senator and, like, apologize for that. But I was a little impatient not to get an answer. I thought the question was extremely obvious yes or no, but there was no yes or no in any part of the answer. So I'll call for it back. I'd like to add the question. In answer to what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir mentioned that this was a matter of reasonableness or law. There would be laws to follow, etc. The law is certainly such that this law on social security is to apply general pay development. We can tribble indefinitely about the exact legal application of that law, but the words of general pay development are very widely interpreted, as the Universal Agent has noted. In that vast interpretation, at least a reasonable person could say that it is normal to carry out the same increases in social security production as shown in biographies. [[The president calls.]] If it is a special decision to raise a dollar in one place, it would be generally appropriate to do so in the other place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u116	V.E.G. President. I took a moment's concern that I couldn't get a question from what. A senator where I thought he was gone. But no, for it was just as I expected to be asked about it. Of course, this has been a significant case today, as well as in previous discussions about the budget bill. There are many factors that have been identified here that the improvement in social security is expected to increase according to general employment development, but not according to the increase in low wages. It's important, I think, to bear in mind that this applies for all years, not just the years in which there's a special bond deal. There is evidence that, in the long run, this method, now being used, has yielded permanent dressbacks to micro-organization workers. To say that I'm going to say, as I've always said through all this discussion, that the major problem with the disability pension is that you need to make changes in how the benefits are made, you need to improve your rehabilitation so that people who get into illness or accidents can get back into a labour market and that you especially have to make sure they're not in that position but need to rely on the social security system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u117	President. The reason I've asked several members of the council over and over is simply that my simple question about whether this is a legitimate requirement is never answered. It is always ambiguous and starts talking about how the system should be built up in some other way or something like it. But that's not what I'm asking. I'm asking you about the fact that when you bring up a centennial increase in a general labour market in general contracts, which obviously produces a defect towards 69. g. - It's just obvious, isn't it, then, that either the government steps in and corrects the problem of the law or that the council does? That's a really simple question. The problem is obvious. We must be able to agree that the defect is obvious. If this is a matter of fairness or law, then we must say as lawgiver: Hey, this is a flaw. Let's fix this. Is that not an obvious conclusion?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u118	Mr. President. When it comes to managing the social security system, I don't think it's obvious that the biggest problem there is the 69th article we're always talking about here, but the combination of the micro-energy money system, how our community makes it impossible for disabled people to get jobs, whether in the general labour market or in the public. I think there's a problem with the system that there are too many people in the system, and they bite too soon. But at the same time, I still feel that it needs to be adjusted so that those who are happy enough to earn other income don't have to rely on the social security system. I believe the big problem is that we're not going to succeed in protecting and ensuring the benefit of those who have to rely on the social security system, the strip. To me, the big problem lies there. I've put it to work and sat on committees and talked about exactly what I'm here to say. I think that's the way to improve the quality of disability. Of course, that applies to the social security system everything, including old - age pensioners and older citizens. There I believe the big problem lies. I think there's justice in our getting a decent social security system and a micro-energy pension system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u119	A respectable president. We're discussing this unusual budget at an unusual time, and I think it is safe to believe that the budget has never been faced with any other kind of project, not just because of the public financial root that has been brought upon us since the Korean epidemic, but because the election was postponed for a month this fall. So above the economic uncertainty, there was a tighter time frame for the committee to work things out. The economic uncertainty then stirs together, causing the release of a committee to be delayed by two weeks from the proposed date. The lesson of this may be that the next time this year is all over, there is little work to be done by granting recruitment time to contribute to the loss of the national budget because the problem is shifting over to the council. But here we are, at least, with a budget bill that has been provided by a financial committee. The problem is reflected naturally in the bill and the proposal that the government had developed in whatever the crowning season, that it is very difficult to achieve a proper financial law in the unfunded tax reductions that have been defined as the ideal period and that it remains in the process, for example, that we here at the council have a prime minister of finance to provide financial contributions in these days to continue to reduce financial taxes and fiscal taxation, for example. You would not necessarily have fired up the fact that there is a high priority when there is a gap in the financial situation today. In accordance with the nature of the case, the response to the Covid ice is at the top of the budget bill. The largest figures could, therefore, call some kind of mirror of automatic fluctuation, that as unemployment increases, normal donations to the unemployment relief system and as a result, it has been developed a new support system to keep society walking, underprivileged, and people at work, which is simply a reasonable provision for those who do not have new jobs when people lose their jobs. It is only natural for a government fund to step in and establish a foundation for a job. As for the unemployment benefits, there is still some confusion that the number of people who lost their jobs at the beginning of the year before the Korean virus began to register, since the recent years were due to a crisis and even earlier. Hence, a large group who do not enjoy the extension of income - related unemployment benefits have been offered to those who lost their jobs during the crowning epidemic. Similarly, there is what might be called unemployment among students who usually have to rely on secular work, but it is not getting to the same extent now as average year. However, despite having paid expenses for years, students have not been entitled to the same level of unemployment. Regarding students, it could also be noted that the growth of the student loan system was not increased, since a new learning loan system was adopted has a potent impact on the depression that knocks on students' doors these days. Then it is difficult to mention indications that are presented, not only in reviews, but in the bill itself, regarding the impact assessment of the government's activities, the fact that the government's investment campaign gets a gender rating in the sense that about 85% of the workers there were found in areas where men are in much more part, at the same time as the groups needed for employment are young people, foreign citizens, and women. The government's investment campaign is not limited to the reviews of experts who report to the council. Rather, it is simply stated in the bill's report, and it should give us some thought as to the effect of the assessment. It is simply presented, and no changes are made. That the investment campaign has not been turned upside down so that it reflects more on the need, something to learn from. Even if we are dealing with a temporary or somewhat deep tern because of the centenarian epidemic, we must not forget the grappling crisis that will come for the weather in the coming years, which is the climate crisis. The situation is urgent. But I was disappointed when I was at the highest. The prime minister announced today that there is a higher government ambition in climates, moving the goal to decrease from 40% to 55%, not just because these are ambitious goals, these are the goals that we can expect to get through the European Union anyway, but because this was supposed to happen sooner. This should have happened in February. If this happened in February, as expected by the Paris Convention, it would have been possible to set up a protocol that was published in June for 55%, but not 40%. Then action on this budget bill would have been possible, considering this new, extra ambition. Then we wouldn't have gone through a few days ago without improving energy exchange action, encouraging action in climate. In fact, it is a terrible time for prime minister to proclaim extra ambitions into the final meters at the council's work on the box set for as long as next year's work. Although today's ambition is set in 55%, the next 40% years will be when it comes to government goals on climate, simply because the government was late to realize. In fact, this is incomprehensible because last December, the European Union made it possible to increase its ambitions from 40% to 505/55%. In February of this year, Norway rose from 40% to 55%. In June 70% of the Danish Parliament approved a recession on climate law. In September, the European Commission fixed the target at 55% and in October, the European Parliament said it would like to go up to 60%. Throughout Europe we work on climate, so the government knew that these goals would be common to us, whether in December or in February or in September or October. All these time points would have been better to announce extra ambitions so that we could take this into account in the next year's plan. I just mention this to stress how sad it is to miss out on the opportunity to push this government's alleged ambition into action next year. But if I don't just have some pessimism about climate, I'd also like to mention what might be called an application system that should not be missed by an Icelandic community. But when I listened to the highest. Financial and economic secretary will respond to an unprepared query from what happened. paritaprevir This morning's Logi, Einarsson's son, struck me with two masks when the minister said that now it was working to make the private sector more able to come into work on climate matters with a special bill of inception and tax incentive for investments in green solutions. All right. But when it comes to funding our community, when it comes to activating our pension fund and other financial institutions in the community to dislodge investments in contaminated industry and to be part of the solution and support green investments, government silences are so loud. Simply put, it is a fun opportunity for Icelandic society and Icelandic employment to get ahead early in the field of actual green investments. Not only does it encourage new creation and prosperity in society but it can also contribute to winning the battle against man - made climate change. This train is on its way, and it will come to us, whether we want it or not. The European Union has approved a green investment frame which will definitely affect through the EEA Convention. The European Union has agreed on green bonds that will probably affect Icelandic financial companies. What matters, and what I think is the most. A minister is a little asleep, is about to step forward before we have to, be ready when the world knocks on the door, and needs the possibility of investing in this country. Iceland is just sitting there waiting, if there's anything to tell the minister's answers. However, it may not be amiss to remind of the proposals currently discussed in the Economic and Business Committee that a financial minister puts together a team, a financial body and environmental experts to provide suggestions on the ways of the Icelandic financial system to be on the tip of a green investment and the development of a mineral - free society. This could be one of the biggest steps in the direction of a non-carbon in the country. I'd just like to mention a position or a gathering of the state stocks that crystal one of the most in the land hospital's position which, I think, three different parts of the budget suggest to cut off in some way. I think it is a reasonable arrangement, and it would be tempting to say: "Well, what kind of left category is in a government that doesn't suggest this on a financial bill? I'm not gonna do that, but I'm gonna ask you, what kind of conservative party is in the government that doesn't suggest this? Because one of the first things Boris Johnson and his government did in Britain, when the Korean epidemic began its drive, was changing the medical balance. There were written off the combined debt of 13 billion pounds of health institutions, which I know is a huge amount. The health minister there said: While we are dealing with this epidemic, no health - care provider should lose focus because he is concerned about his hospital finances. This can be done by British conservatives, and it is hoped that the Icelandic element can support the suggestions here for cutting the tail off a land hospital. Because my time is getting shorter, I think I'm just going to mention one of the details that I think is especially relevant to a financial committee for the work ahead of budgeting between 2 and 3. and the work ahead of financial agendas. Then it may be appropriate to first mention that today is an international day of human rights, a large and remarkable day, but in this country too long has been allowed to set up an independent international human rights agency that meets the United Nations Paris Standard for Human Rights. Maturity aid, in its heading to the budget, points out that today's surveillance by the fact that disabled people enjoy the right rights of the rights of the disabled is in no way sufficient, and that the establishment of a human rights institution is a step in the right direction. This would be a step in the right direction for all of us to have human rights, regardless of our group. This is especially important now because there are never so many human rights and exactly the times that we are going through right now. That's why I'd like to point the trigger. The budget is to be published last year by the Justice Minister on a plan to set up such an institution, but by tomorrow, the results appeared from that consultation process, saying: Since the Agency was not expected in a financial programme, the bill was not submitted. I would like to direct it to the budget to assume an independent human rights agency on financial programmes and to add funds between 2 and 3. The budget so that after some year, when Iceland will be cursed for not setting up this institution, the Justice Minister will not be able to point out the legal authority and blame us. It is important to establish this facility. Clearly, we do so by making room for financial and financial matters. I expect the case to be well discussed in a budget board.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u120	President. I don't think anyone's surprised what I'm going to ask you. Now, I'm gonna try to ask the same question that I've been asking all day, which is for ex-VG staff and former management, etc., because I wonder if people just don't understand the question I'm asking. I'm going to try the question now on someone who's out of control but who's been there and only knows how these rotten things are. I'm gonna ask you what. A senator. The government makes a biographer contract that's about a dollar raise. It has an impact on general pay development that those who are less paid raise more than those who are more paid. Then, on the other hand, we have a social security law that's supposed to go with general pay development, 69. g., and do so according to law on a 3.6% increase, which is obviously much lower than the lowest remuneration groups received in the biographies that are supposed to be about a 7.1% rise for the lowest paying people there. Despite the difference between that and the fact that he is by law and such, is it not justified, is it not justified for those who are making social security to ask for the same increases as the lowest paid groups received in the biographies? If that is a legitimate requirement, would it not be normal for the government to decide to do anything beyond what the law says, social security laws, or that the council would do something like that, resort to it? Because there is a clear violation of the way the contracts were done based on the work of the Social Security Act.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u121	Mr. President. This is an interesting experiment with me and the senator because I think I understand it completely. Is it justified in using a different approach to promote social security today than has been normally done? It can be totally justified. I think so, especially because rising the lowest rate is always about reducing the pay range in the community and thereby increasing social fairness. It is now quite one of our political goals that society is more reasonable, I would hope. However, it is understandable that the senator is having trouble getting clear answers from people whose position is more responsible than the person being present because I think people in general are just very stressed about doing something unusual to the social security system, moving them in some way that has not been done before. It's so big, and there's so much money on it that I can understand people who respond to the senator in an uncertain way. But fair and just, I think it might be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u122	President. This is quite remarkable, since there has been quite a move in the social security system in the past beyond what the law says and even less. In 2010 and 2011, there was a 0% increase while it was a 13.98% increase in 2009, when it was in terms of remuneration only 3.94%, inflation of 11.9%. Therefore, a decision has been made to increase the cost of social security beyond the general pay grade or index. There's nothing new. This was done for a very specific reason. In 2012 there was a 11.88% increase in pay development of 7.77 percent, a decision not to raise the two years ahead. It was against the law too. Yet it was done. So now, obviously, when you make such a contract, you do not fit into a model 69. g. Social security law whether it would be reasonable for either the council or the government to take the Prozac decision to raise according to this article in a different way than to put a law that narrowed a frame around it. At least I feel that the legitimate requirement is there, but I don't think the Council can even answer whether this is a legitimate requirement. I could understand if they said: "Yes, that's a legitimate requirement, but there's no room for it. This has been done before, in 2009 or in 2010/2011. Why can't you even say it now?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u123	A respectable president. Thank you. This historical overview of the rise in social security and the fact that I am basically in harmony with it. It is a political decision to handle these matters in each of the budgets. Sometimes it's only allowed to roll on some automation but sometimes there's reason to step on the brake or give more than the Excel documents say, that's a decision to take. I think exactly, as the senator says, there is nothing wrong with that in itself. If people think that there's no room for more growth, then it's just political food that people can live up to, you'd think. And again, these are just requirements when people see other groups rise above themselves, groups that are to be fled, they are justified in making the same requirement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u124	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I decided that he said very soon that the government was in trouble before the epidemic struck. It's interesting to me at the time. That is exactly what I have been able to do, and it came into my speech in terms of a tax account by 2019 C.E. It can be seen that the economy is beginning to slow down, and the status of the state funds is getting worse. Then there's a huge increase in government spending for 2019 and when you look back and see it, they're natural nothing. Then the government proclaimed an extra budget on top of it, and then comes the resolution, which represents 67.4 billion dollars. It's worse for the law. The result was negative at 38.9 billion, but under the budget of 2019, the state's budget was to bring back a positive supply of 28.6 billion so that worse results according to this contribution are explained largely because income was overrated in 2019 budgets by 63.5 billion. I think you're right about what you're talking about. A senator that the government was truly in trouble there, and I have confidently said that there is clearly something wrong with the planning of state funds when such a huge over-employment takes place. Then maybe we've come to what I'm going to ask you. The senator was about, now he voted with these financial laws at his time, whether he is not in part responsible for the problems that the government was in, and he spoke of in his speech. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u125	A respectable president. Yeah, well, of course I share responsibility, but then it's about when the problem started, and it was kind of fun to hear this overview and all those numbers from the other side. Senator. I'd also like to review my favorite word that became almost persistent in the financial reviews of all the documents they gave them for review, which had become a straitjacket, since financial advice warned of it, just from the fact that it took jobs, that the state was too eager to give away a solid tax set, which may be less fluctuated by the precise economic situation, but would be more responsible for the well - paying taxes as the nature of the case is drawn together when it gives up. So this is not a new problem, and the fall of WOW ar in 2019 had a significant effect on the worse. But then I think that even though we've seen here one year ago in 2020, with some strong glasses, we wouldn't have been able to predict what it would be like since 2020. It would have been as difficult for the straitjacket as it was because of the tremendous depression of 2020. There's something that we may be able to work on, but I don't think we're gonna do it because the government is giving up even more tax companies, as it is now planned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u126	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answer is, and he only wants to introduce a group of subjects that he is known to speak extensively and to have a good knowledge of. These are climate issues, and in this regard, I would like to discuss the forestry industry in particular. Forests are one of our major climate countermeasures and can become an important part of Iceland's climate action, get enough funding, but it has been missing. Besides, the forest industry produces a lot of jobs, and it does not produce that. New forestry reduces the emissions of greenhouse gases that we so often discuss here and attaches carbon to the soil. The middle class has been talking a lot about raising substantial funds for forestry, and we haven't exactly been trying to tax the public from this procedure, as it is done. with the carbon tax that has increased much, as well as only part of the tax flows to climate. Maybe I wanted a guess. A senator's opinion of whether he is normal is that we focus on one aspect above another's battle. It is the closest thing to going to the forestry industry. It is much less controversial than other measures and does not include taxation on the public. It would be good to have his opinion on that. At the end, I'd like to know if there's a problem. A senator will support the changes made by the Central Party to the budget for growing funds for forestry.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u127	A respectable president. First of all, because I don't always remember everything, I'll look it up and see that I'm okay. The senator likewise voted for this year's budget. We'd both sit next to them. I wonder if our responsibility is equal. We are rightly irresponsible when it comes to the frames that were here for this year. Foresting is fine, it is a fine counterweight action against climate change. It also has, if well standing, a positive effect on the closer environment and a beautiful forest is beautiful. But I couldn't agree, for we should take one side above another in the fight against climate change. We're supposed to grow forests, we're supposed to get wet, we're supposed to tax polluters, and we're supposed to support the efforts that reduce pollution and the green activities of human life. We're supposed to do all that and many more. We are to use every method, not one aspect above another. That, of course, is where forestry comes in strong. I just have to admit that I'm going to look at the central Party's change proposal, but I'm going to do it with an open mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u128	Mr. President. A representative of the United States Group on the budget board, huh? paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson has done well with the views of the party here today. Of course, I agree with them. There are a few things I want to come on for a while. To begin with, it should be noted that before the pandemic, there was an economic breakdown. The years leading up to that, with an unprecedented period of growth, the government did not then support it, i.e. either to subtract or, more fortunately, to earn money and to take advantage of the opportunity to level the country's profits along the way. Similarly, the present government had not responded in enough decisive ways to the scenes that had indeed been raised that had been warned and may have exploded with the fall of WOW air. At the beginning of this crisis, there had also been quite a crippling decrease between the normal wage people and the better off ones, as well as those with the lowest value. It's important now, simply because of the nature of the crisis we are dealing with, which takes a great deal on certain groups; the micropigs, the elderly, the ones who lose their jobs; and so, if you make this even more clear, on young people, women, and people of foreign background. Of course, it is also necessary to keep it, as a precaution, for all of us, that in Iceland's crowning years, the singleness of employment has made us worse than most of the countries we compare with. Travel service was, for example, Two times what it is in neighboring lands, and thus its temporary fall is particularly shocking. This is reminded because it is important that, after this crisis, a wide variety of careers will grow to the future, taking into account new realities, new technologies, and especially the interests of our young people, although they will be important and valuable to us. The new technology, this digital technology, a technological revolution, whatever people want to call it, is a very good way to bet on a small country in a large country, far from markets. This could increase the value of something needed because of changes in national age. With it, we might reduce the amount of eco-efficiency necessary for our commitments and for the world's ends and, of course, we could use it and the benefits of it in order to equalize the benefits of the people in the country. That is why it is particularly surprising that there is too little ambition for innovation and knowledge industry. It's certainly an extension, but it would have been necessary to be more confident. Its presentation is e.g. now the highest. The Minister of Creation is going to shut down the Creation Center with no questions about what will take place. It's unannounced. Mr. President. It also noticed how the government was hovered at first to soften the economic rate for businesses and people in the country, at least if you look to our neighborlands. The worst was that the measures were primarily into companies, especially big companies, but much less was thought about small companies, much less their homes in the country. After that, some of the roads were quite good. It was the most successful economic operation of the government, and it could be taken lightly, for it was used previously by the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir government after a collapse. Then there are some activities that were introduced into history that have been completely stable or at least completely stable. failure to achieve the target result, e.g. In fact, a so - called doll loan never got in the way, and the process of enlightenment was an incomprehensible treasure that worked directly against the partial benefits and would have had no benefit if it had been accepted during the autumn months. Then there are other measures, such as income fractions, which simply did not occur. In spring, when there was immediate demand of complete collapse and there was a real danger of working in such a situation when the crisis was over, the council supplied a bill to still cut off the teeth of the Contestants. There are still various ways to compete in the country. It is true that the government had a measure of pity. We faced a totally unexpected and new situation that surely cannot blame the government. However, the government initially decided not to seek out a conversation with the government's opposition, so it is one responsibility for the operation. I think, after considering, she underestimated the seriousness of the situation. She thought that the crisis would be more temporary, and the virus epidemic would last a short time, and she was going to benefit from this alone, but she miscalculated, as the examples prove. The work of the government was also marked by considerable wonder, and when it finally pleased late in the fall, looking at the suggestions of the Union and the labor movement spoken for from spring to spring, such as on increased basic inefficiency, the opportunity was used to glomerate things as well as groups that some certainly do not need. These include increases in the limits of genetic tax declines and fiscal taxes without increasing the cut-offs of those who need them most. It may be said that such an image exposes quite clearly what it is when two groups of socialists have to contend with one larger biliary right category. I think that may be the experience of the contributions from this budget bill. I think it's also serious that the government isn't ready to give all of our land's hospitals along the slope they're facing. The government groups are not even in order to secure the land area of the Land Hospital from now on, because if I recall correctly, about 1.5 billion of what the National Hospital assumes he needs and what the government is willing to give to him. The conclusion is that he will probably be forced to limit his service to patients after years and will find it more difficult to process a waiting list that has been created because of the crown virus. That is shortsighted. As it was, it was pretty good for you to say. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's son is a completely different route from where he left, for example. In Britain, however, where this was zeroed out, the hospital could deal with conditions that lie ahead, which we do not know for a long time. That's why I feel the responsibility of those senators who will vote against our move in the United States for an increase of funds to the Land Hospital is quite a factor. Of course, I remind you that everyone here is bound to their own convictions and conscience in votes at the Council. Mr. President. Sometimes I feel that the government doesn't understand the nature of this crisis or that it doesn't want to understand. She has at least not showing sufficient interest in directing their main attention and actions to the manifestation; unemployment. Sadly, it is a work crisis, and the crisis is very different. Some 20,000 people have already lost their jobs, and we hope that they will not increase much. Meanwhile, we find the others who do not work hard for its economic consequences, even though certain inconveniences follow the Center for Disease Control that meets all of us. We even have more favorable offers for our trip across the country because of a difficult situation in restaurants and tourism. While others, these 20,000, struggle with total failure. This does not affect just those who lose their job; it affects their families. This is especially true of those who live in those homes. Nevertheless, the government does not plan for unemployment to decrease by 1 percent in the next year. It is simply too small in the crisis we are dealing with. It hurts, and it's too lame. It may be due to a group in this government that can't be heard of that we use, while we're trying to promote the private market, the opportunity to bring up a year-old subjugation to the government. There I think that simply comes back the difference between the two groups that have social nerves and some princely firm right party that cannot be mentioned of such things. If there is not enough work to get many things done quickly, it is also not enough for those who are unable to get a job and who will not get a job in the near future because they will take time, no matter what methods they use, but we have to make sure of them too. There is no point in calling out to us that we have to ensure that we are unemployed, that we must also provide for our homes for consideration. People don't stop eating or having to dress. While the need for warm homes does not stop, it may be forced to stop allowing children to go to leisure activities, allow their children to go on trips, buy new coats, or glasses that are broken. This is simply not good. If we agree on it in this room that we cannot leave our companies and their owners behind, who still don't have the blood vessels and don't breathe and don't feel them, it's naturally incomprehensible that we're going to let families go through this without making sure they don't suffer permanent damage. In other words, the prisoner has been far too much to defend individual stocks or legalities, but far too little flesh - and - blood people. Since spring, in the United States, we have identified it, the labor movement has pointed to it, a number of people, economists, and others, pointing to it and pressing more efficient measures for the homes of the country. We provided proposals for the prolongation of income-related unemployment benefits, for the increase in basic employment reforms, for students, for frontal stress payments, funding for the important services of rural society, direct scholarship to small companies, higher payments for older citizens and disability, innovations and green structures, to name something. All the suggestions, except I'm the only one, have been rejected by the government. It simply reveals the priorities of the government. I'm afraid that because we know it well, we know it well, and we see it all over, the increased inequities will cause untold damage in our society, create inconsistency, weaken resistance, reduce intensity, contribute to non-efficient society, and that's none of the things we need now that we've received a vaccine and are about to get back up. In simple language, this will make our lives and society worse. True, the government has done things, and it has met groups that are sick, even though I see that it has not been done enough. In this light, however, some of the more odd that between people in the lowest terms and the rest of us is still allowed to grow systematically. In this way, older citizens wanted their terms to rise by the quarter of 15,750. in accordance with other country remunerations. I am surprised at how modest older citizens were in their demands, but it is not even possible to do so but to increase their compensation by 3.6% or by 9,000 bucks, probably in line with some calculus. However, there is no reason to react in another way, and this was done after a collapse, during the last crisis, where these groups were particularly right in terms of recovery. If I haven't calculated wrong, then, this requirement, in addition to what's being left for older citizens, will cost the state treasure for an entire $2 billion, which can hardly be considered an insurmountable amount in all the fees we've been looking at all this year and has been required to a large extent, and it's not to be taken into account. But it's your priorities, it wasn't a lot of trouble when people were being adjusted by various measures for corporations, for airlines, for farmers, and for some things, but no, there's nothing left for the people who have built the community that we do most of our best in spite of everything. In the fall of the United States, we passed our way out of the crisis, the responsible way, the economic plan for next year, and that's what we did in October. The responsible way is to increase jobs, improve our well - being, and provide the basis for new green support for the export and for the future because we too need to do so. The passwords were work, welfare, and structure throughout the country. This route would have increased by 7,000, three times as much as the government suggests, both in the private sector and in the government. We also provided ways to promote well - being, e.g. by increasing unemployment rates, by subsidizing with rural communities in a narrow position that is necessary, otherwise forced to reduce service or to reduce investments that will reduce the development of the government in its strategy. We also wanted to take a stand against the degree of aging and disability and to improve the quality of our social security. More important, we have made plans for green building, plans for what is to be considered at the end of this period. Unlike the government, which now published in the last record of ambitious action on non-final climates, we realized that something would have to be costed and calculated by the actions that are similar to the highest. The prime minister spoke of, although we had intended to gain ambition, cost some 20 billion. But it doesn't have a dollar in these budgets, if I understand correctly, and half of the increase in environmental costs goes, for example. In a treasure. This is an essential task, but people are being caught up in the eye if they are told that they are climate surgery.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u129	Mr. President. I'd like to be here at 2nd. the next year's budget for a few things to come in. At first, I'd like to agree with the point of view. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, member of the Central Party, and representative of the budget board, who began his talk at the beginning of the earlier discussion of the 3rd smaller adjustment proposals. I especially want to introduce a few things, first of all, what I think is most lacking in professional life and support for the growth in income production in the community. I'd also like to step in on issues related to the State Radio, its financing and its press status. Then I'm going to come in on fur seeking and their situation and finally have a few words about the transport contract and the city line on this bill. First, I'm going to say in general that I feel that there is no need for sufficient emphasis on pushing economic income so that resistance can become as fast as possible when the normal times are approaching. With the tremendous angle here and what is predictable next year in this context, we will become a society in a very complex position if economic income and valuables fail to recover rapidly. I'd like to get on with something that's about to the telecommunications market and the State Radio. I would especially like to call attention to comments shown by the financier in connection with work on budgets, where there is an exorbitant distinction between private media competing with the U.S. radio. All domestic media, whatever form they are, I allow myself to state, have suffered loss of income, and a number of major losses. Those who rely solely on advertising sales are probably in the worst position. Similarly, the Kingdom News is a big part of its budget assured through a pay flow from the state's funds, and then it adds with requests to a budget of 600 million, if I remember correctly, to compensate for a missing income loss due to some factors that turn in one or another the effects of the Covid epidemic. I want to go to the top. Mr President, to enter the title of Show. It's interesting for many things. For example, the impact of the epidemic on companies such as a sample is attributed to them. I'm not going to go through all the teams that are listed, but when you add them up, you say in the conclusion of the second paragraph, by permission of the president: ▪ The figure is about 1.1 billion a.m. on the business of the club for the worse. That's twice the problem from the State Radio. However, there is a medium and company that must stand on their own, adapt to the new position, and plan their plans and expenses. This, of course, underscores the great difference between the position of the State Radio and the private media companies on this market. They are competing with the State Radio, which has almost guaranteed the income flow from the most trusted bidder in the country and the fluttering of income is very moderate. Before I disappear from the title shown, I'd like to read a paragraph in order to frame the point of the private media status against the giant in the media market. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ With the reference to this, if the State Radio was to improve all the damage done to the substitution of RUS, such an action would only add to the competitive disorder that already results in a gift of less than 5 billion years in the state and about 2 billion advertising revenues that the Agency makes each year. Of course, that situation is unbearable for private companies. It is our duty to take these factors into consideration. In this context, I'd like to make a special suggestion. paritaprevir Þórarinsson Thornarnsson, a member of the Central Committee of the budget, of the change in radio costs that are expected to match the index figure to 170 million next year, is not being performed, as follows, by President's permission: A third of my items contributes to a change in bill planning a new radio charge of some 170 million. K., don't come up for action. The motion is normally in line with a proposal for action made by the Central Party for the next few days for the change in radio charge. Then there is a flier coming from the central category on the change of the radio charge. I think it's likely to be distributed tomorrow or Monday. Enough about the state radio for now. Next, I'm going to come to the fur finder and problems associated with the possibility of performing the vital preparatory work needed to make possible a release of fur parvota. According to a review of the Marine Research Agency to the budget board, an additional cost for this project is estimated to be 120 million and is requested to obtain additional funds for the task. If I recall correctly, an ocean research agency will be provided nearing 4 billion a year. I don't have the number exactly in my head, but the size is about That one. Of course, that is a large amount, and the representatives of the Habitat Research Institute have been pointed out that priorities are needed so that a fluffy search guide can be made. But for the community as a whole, for the national box, and for us here, it is absolutely unmistakable that there may be a situation in which there will be no hair - searching expeditions because there is either no financial support, not for money on the basis of a comprehensive board of Marine Research Institutes, or at that time a sea emissary minister or a financial committee would knock them off the table. There can be, if successful, a 2030 billion season that will not happen if these actions are not carried out. I would just like to review reminding you of 1st paragraph. Law on Fishing, No. 145/2018, says, with permission of the president: The budget is laid in order to meet the government's cost of research, control, control and management of fishing and fish industry... And I don't think it's clear that the cost of hunting is soundly dependent on the cost that falls on the ocean of hairy search. Of course, they have like many other income institutions that have become a common source of income into the state's budget. But we need to keep in mind that there is a fee, called fishing fee, on the project designed to meet the State's costs of research, control, control, and control of fishing and fishing. We must also bear in mind that over the past few years, changes in the environment have led to the development of new emerging species in the jurisdiction. Do I mention herrings, carbons, and mackerel? If we were to take as an example the negotiations and the like, the research is a key factor to strengthen our position. Now I don't know if it's my intention to recall the budget to the Committee between the 2nd and 3rd. but I know that next week, the plan is to take care of the budgets that are expected to be the fifth in the order of this year, and I want to challenge the budget to make a serious review of it to put into the budget that ensures that a hairy search will take place. There are interests that we simply cannot overlook. It would be unforgivable in our current year's journey not to prepare for the fact that Cradro can publish his goodbyes for a hairy hunt. We remember that there were reports of men who felt that they had been tracking down her webs some time ago but that they were in ice cream. We know some of that story. It's definitely there, but we have to make sure that the hairy attractions of the Marine Research Institute can take place in order to have a meal published and we as a community will hopefully enjoy the source of 20 to 30 billion valuables. Next, I would like to intervene briefly in areas facing the city line and the transport contract. Investments for this project go through a transport program. Then, of course, there are the sources of better transportation. has been given by special laws. A great commission from Þórarinn Hjaltason, who is worthy of all attention, was received, and I would like to keep her here. Of course, in this context, a large amount of money is being given to this contract through a transport program. Second, the information related to the public body is a better transport for the Ohf. ... acommittee. That's why I'd like to arrange for this here as to the surveillance role of the Committee. In his review, Ragnar Árnason, professor of economics, points out that his study of COWI and Human Knowledge shows that the national value of the first stage of the city line is quite negative. In Ragnar's article, it is reasoned in a thorough, convincing way. I would like to quote the conclusion of the comments Þórarinn by Hjaltason, which say in the suggestion of the memo, by permission of the president: I challenge the Council to make sure that the interest of the city line will be reassessed in comparison with the option to reduce the road to Bus and to increase the travel rate. It is possible to shorten the travel time of Bus in the same way that has been done so far, i.e. Add lanes on the right to the road, where there are long - waiting cars in the traffic season. It is far less expensive than making special space in the middle of the island street or in special streets, as is expected for the city line. The estimated cost is in the range of five to ten billion dollars. The amount of money saved, up to 100 billion dollars, could be used to build transport, which is far more practical than the city line. I wanted to keep it here because this matter is certainly not finished. It is absolutely minimally mandatory that the preconceived interest analysis be carried out so that the project remains unsurpassed. It must be remembered that what is missing comes from either a wealth or a special payment on traffic in the capital area. Neither option is good, but both are expected in the approved laws and established the establishment of this government. It is the responsibility of the body committee and the General if the initial stages of this case are not carefully followed. The first two projects that have passed through rural planning in the area of the capital, following the establishment of the official stock society, both appear to be having an impact on the mismutations and to go to a photo-mediated trajectory with environmental impact, poor traffic flow, less traffic security, and so on. Hence, all evidence suggests that in this agreement a government fund is expected to stand up to ten, but the rural communities seem, unfortunately, to choose from the box the pieces that please them best. This is what I would like to say in connection with this important matter and to reiterate what is stated in the review of Hjaltason, which is, as with the knowledge of people who know, a great expert on these topics, that these factors must be examined. Now I see that the chairman of the budget board is coming to the chamber, and I hope that the Board of Directors for the Public Association will be active from the very beginning of that task. Other than that, I would like to introduce a feature that the industrial bodies point to in their review that the proposals for environmental taxes will be revised and reformed. It is a discussion that took place in connection with a so - called bandorm, the income fund of the entire budget. It is proper to mention this in the context of the fact that we do not make the regular task so that we are sucking money out of the businesses and homes of the country in unscheduled measures, I allow myself to say, since there have been pretty good evidence that there has been a lot of evidence that would be useful in making fossil fuels. There is just about 6 billion taxes placed in the country's company and home, which are not particularly well graded in the recent National Institute of Economics. Although that tax, as many others did, was expected to have a good idea, and the plan was to direct individuals and businesses to a certain behavior, it is just a tax paying today. Well, that's the best way to approach it. While this is under the umbrella of the so - called green taxes, we must only criticize those who are such while there is insufficient evidence that they have yielded some results. Then, at the end of my talk, I would like to remind you of the general factors facing different situations and the conflicting state of the country and the capital area in transport. We have been in an enormous discussion of transport in the capital area in connection with the transport contract and city line, but we must not allow the importance of national infrastructure to be forgotten. This is essential for a more balanced approach to territory. Let's see, for example. what is happening on the south side of the West, to illustrate. The premise that such resistance will succeed is that transportation is good and the roads are performed to make up the most important winter service. Finally, because my time is running out, I'd just like to remind you that we have to get the affairs of the State Radio and the private mediums to look ahead. Then I challenge the budget board to pick it up in relation to the fifth fundraiser, which will likely be provided here next week, to ensure financial support so that a hairy search can take place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u130	Mr. President. We'll discuss this bill to the budget of 2021 for the small Iceland community, an island in the ocean that should be able to function as a kind of cohesion, a nation known to be in various fields but also with conflicting characteristics, a lack of common vision in many important matters, and where the interests of many are often given for the interests of few. A community where the population is somewhat fewer than the employees of Costco Industries, a business society known to many Icelanders. It's a colorful society. The bill we discuss is, of course, being employed in unique situations, as has been repeated in talks. Today's senators do not need to reenact their reasons. It has been necessary to deal with individual circumstances repeatedly during this year by means of financial contributions. A lot of work and countless hours, both a financial committee, a financial and business committee, are behind and given a reason to thank them for their share. But the conclusion, the bill we are considering, is not a position of government, as has been described in several speeches, and significant changes are proposed. We have been talking about, in both the majority and the smaller part, the importance of creating a basis for strong resistance when the epidemic's great and difficult anger has been broken down here and on a global scale and has taken a great deal of sacrifice. Here the knife may appear in the cow, and we disagree on ways, methods, and emphasis under these circumstances. A powerful career is certainly a prerequisite for society's success, for us to get our weapons to expand and create valuables, rich for good works, that we can go against wild, exciting, adventureful conditions in the future, waiting beyond the corner with revolutionary lifestyle change and technology. But the wealth that cannot be underestimated and, of course, is the basis and driving force of everything is the human wealth. In Iceland, there are 20,000 people without employment today, individuals who had a job in useful, valuable jobs, and who, above all, want to go to work but nowhere, are affected. Unemployment is debilitating, damaging to all people, as well as a serious concern for the economy and the living of each family and causing agitation. The number of unemployed people in Iceland, 20,000 who may, unfortunately, be more likely, is equivalent to the number of people who are working in Akureyri, Eastland, and the West. Áúst Ólafur Ágústsson, a general member of the council, pointed out in his speech today. It must not be that we as near as possible to the situation that families lose their homes and that they simply find themselves in a state of protection, as happened in 2008 with disastrous consequences when some 10,000 people lost their homes, and we barely have already bitten the needle with it. The pay force has protected the people in today's insistence on solutions and adjustments to the problems facing many homes. These are upbuilding and reliable solutions for which the government, the Council of the United States, and bank agencies will need to cooperate. These suggestions have already been presented to governments a few weeks ago, but they have rather been subjugated. In this relationship, VR has been responsible and has presented an upset which is particularly interesting. VR suggests that support loans will be given to households with full state responsibility and a discount of income tax to cover the remaining payments. Banks are expected to measure the legal capacity of their households and provide them with a financial loan in the form of loans or credit lines with a state guarantee. In this way, the home can continue to live up to its commitment and to support itself and its families during a financial failure. Such a loan line would be up to 18 months if necessary. These are practical and practical suggestions in our troubled circumstances, ensuring that families will pass through tribulation with dignity and without destroying their homes. This would result in great damage to someone who cannot be valued for money. The security of children would be at risk, and the spiritual and physical health of family members can be at stake. Governments are therefore challenged to give ear to this and to pay attention and cooperate with a positive spirit with the paymen's stakes on a real rescue package. Mr. President. There are many other subjects worth considering in this bill, and there is reason to roll around with a single stone. In times like these, there should be a fine opportunity for us to pause and examine. That's what we're supposed to do, look ahead. Governments are to do so. What do we do next, what should be our next step, how do we work hard at this challenge? As to this, in the United States we have discussed and provided responsible suggestions on the subject and published and presented where we look ahead, especially with the welfare and interests of employees in mind. It is effective in this nation, and remember that. Let's take advantage of it. It is a song now to look for ways to build up new opportunities for employment and creation. The epidemic has affected the job life, however, in different ways. In other areas, there have been cases of slight discomfort, serious injury, and similar problems in which complete collapse has occurred, e.g. in events related to travel services. There we look at a reversal of the case of Covid, but don't we need to reevaluate our policy there too, watching the big picture? Our concern and attitude are shaped by the actions of the government and the plans under this bill only reduce unemployment by 1% at this time of the year. We feel that this is unacceptable to others and want to give up much more. To create a powerful modern - day welfare society that is prepared to accept challenges for the future, we need many new rods, enable them to thrive, to thrive, or to fall into the forgotten state. We need to be ready to experiment, perhaps not. It's the nature of innovation. We need to make sure that innovation and procrastination can have the opportunity to flourish all over the country. Concerns over the collapse of the Second Creation Centres over the next few weeks are persistent and not clear. There's the seeds and we can't throw them away, throw them out. There are many of our opportunities, no limits. It is only our imagination that is limited. Mindful, we have a lot of it. We have bold pioneers and thinkers, many of whom need greater understanding and support that has not yet been guaranteed, and even as a perspective may be lost when the New Creation Center, the cohesion, has disappeared. The nature of the case is determined by the lack of innovation and wands and pioneers. They need a prenup on applications, e.g. ... andthe administration of high-level granting grants should take place in an active way. There's a lot at stake. It is now a very special subject to prepare good and well-published applications. Authors are rarely experts in that field. In the country, innovation and other occupations are being developed in a large way. Of course, I'm best known in my own economy, where technical knowledge is high and business has grown from being starters of high technology. However, all jobs in the country struggle to compete in the capital area and, indeed, far beyond that worldwide. The country has more costs and resources for high transport costs and intermediate transport, whether by sea or by land. The executives of these enterprises say that a large number of companies in the country have, for example, the number of enterprises in the country. There is no access to exports and spending large amounts of money on transport costs, and this transport costs are, of course, due to public taxation on transport and transport equipment. There may be a need to consider the matter. We have a transport balance fund, which has a defined role which aims to reduce this difference, assist the companies with the high cost of transport in the market, but the funds for transport are poor and have not grown. In this bill, the needs in this area are not fully met. This is about the growth and maintenance of employment and its development throughout the country. Based on application, a eutrophication centre cares for transport. It is vital to ensure that the transport balance fund receives a complete contribution in the next year and in the years. There are others who have become eligible for the transport system. I mention vegetarians, which is the best of matters, but the funds in the fund must then follow along with increasing weight. It is obvious that the lawgiver's will is as appropriate as possible, this situation between enterprises which live by economic means and those who do not. However, the transport balance fund has not been able to perform this role and is still demeaning by this financial bill. Thus, the minister of finance, transport and local government ministers, and the chairman of the legal committee, is challenged to take action and revise this aspect of conversation. Still, there is no need to lose sight of the big goals, that the government has the leadership of national green building projects, and, of course, that is also true of transport. Mr. President. There has been no shortage of large statements and beautiful promises in the case of the government's leaders on climate issues. However, the government budget is in desperate need of necessary financial support so that significant measures can be taken to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and speed of energy exchange. In any case, a minister's debate over the green revolution and good status of Iceland has been found to support the country in a much weaker climate goal than any other. The European Commission and other Northern countries The public's overall efforts to climate are still very low, with a much less than 1% of GDP. According to the current financial bill, an increase in the budget will be equal to 0.02% of GDP in 2021. Neither testifies to a green revolution. The inadequacy of the government on climate matters is reprehensible. First of all, drastic action is needed, and each year counts. With governments getting up, it will be impossible to reach the goals of the Paris Convention. Second, more ambitious goals and more efficient measures are being compared with the necessary growth in government policy and work. It is now an opportunity for gold to lay the foundation for a new green foundation for the Icelandic economy and for the future treasure generation. This bill needs to reflect more. The government continues to run a tax policy that promotes inequities. Such a course is even worse than before in view of the circumstances in society in which the epidemic rages and mass inequities in which people and families suffer in an extremely harsh way. Now it would be easier to abandon the inequities and put commercial tax reductions first instead of putting too much emphasis on the reduction in taxes from income and genetics. Once again, the government proclaims special measures to protect capital owners from inflation. It is an unjust and unwise action that brings no benefit unless the wealthiest in the country takes in the vast majority of the money they earn. Similarly, it is difficult to see the immediate reduction in the genetic tax. In Iceland's most serious economic crisis from the beginning of human measurement, the emphasis must be highly unsolvable, to be taken into account. Fishing costs have dropped considerably during the season and except for the fractions of which owners of the largest resource uses per year. There's now a pair at the radio charge. This is a direct result of the current government's policy of defending special interests by mouth and by chain. To recall in this context, the first tax action of the government after the full weight of the Korean virus was reduced tax and taxation of big ships. Mr. President. Most important, I do not want to be too brief about health care matters. Hospitals, schools, and nursing homes are held in a special facility, as well as in a pandemic season. The maintenance system for health care is more than 2.2 billion. Health institutions throughout the country take everything as a single wave. Before the epidemic struck, there were some organizations who were already in trouble and who are unable to cope with it in this bill. True, there has been a promise that there will be an improvement in the cost of the Covid budget, but otherwise there is no increase in health care, especially in this region. This is a special concern, since the pressures on the health system will be predictable substantially during the next few years due to the end of the last nine months or so. In general, it cannot be observed that public calls for health care to be a priority on the bill, as it were. The Union wants to invest in people and companies in a much more handsome way and takes more time to pay down the slope. Sometimes money needs to be spent to make money. That situation exists right now. This is what we equal in the United States call the responsible way. It is irresponsible to do too little in such a state as the government is doing. It's responsible to take a big green step now as the Conspiracy suggests. Our work and well - being, with green structure all over the country, is our red thread. It's the way out of a professional crisis to the green future. Unfortunately, it's not the way the government presents with this bill that ends up making a number of adjustments that I hope will contribute to the trade, push the green button, the signal for a green future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u131	Mr. President. My partners in the United States, what? paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, Logi Einarsson and Brjánsson, have all handled the importance of the Union and its proposals for this financial bill. I'm not going to repeat that speech. I am here declaring support to my colleagues and to my party brothers. But I wanted to give a short talk and talk about what really matters to me in this financial crisis that we face, the deep economic depression, which is unprecedented, and we need to find the way out and up. We have fully understood the need to make it possible for companies to be on time for the epidemic to be able to make a full career and to create valuables so that society can prosper. That understanding and recognition have not reached the homes of those who have lost their jobs in this state. These are the very ones who have lost their job to the point of weighting the weight of this downturn. We are to distribute our burdens, and that is what we equals stress. Unfortunately, however, the government groups so far have suggested our suggestions that are directed in that direction. According to recent reports on the workforce's unemployment website in October, there were over 21,000 people in a standard job search, and 25,000 if included, those who make good use of the part-change route. We're talking about 25,000 people, but traditional unemployment is more than 21,000. The government groups made a good decision to extend the income - related period. They saw this in the end of August or early September as a good idea. In fact, they had already turned down the Conspiracy's proposal earlier in the year when we realized that this had to be done. But mistakes were made then, considering a small group. Yesterday, the correction was made to indicate that those who lost their jobs in March would receive a six - month - long pay period. But only to explain the right to unemployment rights when the right is 30 months. Three months are available for income, but the benefits can never go up to 456,000. per month. So it was extended from three months to six months for those who had lost their jobs in March. That's about it. 10,000 people. In February, however, some 10,000 people were out of work, but they only receive a three - month - long pay period at the government's discretion. When asked about this, how does this distinction stand? Why do you think that those who were unemployed in February are so much better than those who were unemployed in March, that they do not need this three - month - long pay period? They'll be all right? Why is that? The answer is: Our support is for those who lost their job because of Covid. This is a Covid operation. Directors' support does not extend to those who do not get jobs because of Covid. There is no Covid operation that includes those who do not have a job but who were already out of work in February. That's 10,000 people. What would this operation cost if we were to put justice ahead of everyone so that all jobseekers in employment crisis without a job would be given six months' income - related legal periods? This could never cost more than 4 billion because no one can get more than 456,000. and not all of these 10,000 are at a maximum. I don't have data to calculate this precisely, but this can never cost more than 4 billion. But the government and the executives just say, "No, these people don't get our support. " That's a very serious matter to me. This is discrimination, and it's a double system because sometimes some executives have said, "We can't extend 25% of the improvement because we're creating twice the system, because when you're on part-time, you don't walk on the job insurance rights. But it's okay to have a double system when it comes to this. It's such an injustice, Mr. President. But there is an opportunity to correct this, both by accepting the Commission's proposals on the budget and by agreeing to the changes made on the bill called in to the welfare committee between 2 and 3. which is about the income - related period, so after the weekend, we can correct the seeming injustice that governments want to achieve in their solutions. However, there is something very serious about the apathy of governments toward the weightier population in a pandemic. Thus, in October 3,614 jobseekers, traditional jobseekers, had been working without work for more than 12 months. If we compare these figures to October last year, the jobseekers in October 2019 were a total of 1,466. Their numbers increased by 2,148 from year to year. Now someone would say: " That is obvious, for we are dealing with a pandemic, and there is no work to be found. However, governments refuse to extend the cost of unemployment, those who are now falling off unemployment benefits, more than 100 persons in the months that follow, and more and more, have to go abroad. They no longer receive unemployment benefits, and they need to search the community for social assistance. I find it so cruel and incomprehensible, and I find it inhuman. And the same answers do I get when I ask, "Why not? " Why don't we go around the season? All our actions are Covid. Yeah, fine. Prolonging the period of unemployment therapy is a Covid operation because people don't get jobs because they don't work in a pandemic. Last night, the executives dropped the Continent's proposal to extend this period for a year. We'll make this suggestion again and say, "Well, you didn't want to extend it for a year." But what do you say about six months? They would remember about six months immediately because the payments they can get from social services or community services are about twice as low as unemployment. And by not lifting a finger to help these people, we are pointing them straight into very few, and in line for food gifts. I think it's so shameful, Mr. President. It's not as if this is the most expensive operation this government has ever performed. You see, the government and all of us in this room have acknowledged that the companies that have been affected need support. We've also accepted, and we've joined in the processing of a bill to give a vibrating grant next year to a viable company so they can survive this terrible situation. But for some reason, governments do not admit that the homes of the people who have lost their jobs in these same companies have also suffered a huge loss of income and require divorce, and tens of millions are sponsoring and helping companies that are necessary, and in most cases we have agreed. We have not agreed that it would be a good idea to strengthen a company to give up people in a business crisis, because no country has ever gone that way unless we do, but with other activities that assist companies, we have certainly stood up and paid votes. This is tens of billions of dollars, but according to analyses, only the rights that employees and employees have earned in a labour market that is unemployment, 7 billion have gone extra to their homes. These numbers are perfectly clear, and even though we only look at them, there is no understanding of the domestic problems. However, we know, and many studies show, both in the country and abroad, that long - term noncooperative situations are dangerous. It's a health hazard. It has serious side effects, not only for those who lose their jobs but also for all others in the home and especially for their children. But for some reason, it seems that governments do not realize this. Like what? paritaprevir The Guðjón - child of S. Brjánsson went so well back then, and ASI has adopted these ideas, providing realistic ideas on how to support the home by what the Versatile Society calls a retirement loan. The way this work might be done is discussed on the Web site of the city's Versatile Society of Reykjavík. I think this is a good idea, and I'm surprised it's not at least In view, since the government has been introduced to this presentation a long time ago. I've requested that we get the president of the Versatre Society of Reykjavík to a meeting where he will review these matters. I think it must be worth one Mass to find out how to meet the domestic income and help them live up to their commitments and not suffer permanent damage. I hope that the government's members will realize that they are now before we go to Christmas permits, and that we can at least meet people in this way, in support of those who have to bear the weightiest load in this pandemic, the weightiest financial burden, since, of course, there is another group that has to deal with the illness itself and after the virus. But there are financial burdens for those who have lost their job.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u132	Mr. President. There have been discussions about budgeting, which is unique in its order, of one of the worst and most likely economic prospects that we have had to deal with, and in situations where unemployment is, unfortunately, in historical places, and of unemployment statistics have not been higher in decades. Severe conditions exist in the workplace, with the prospect of an enormous darkness both before the winter and well into the next year. Clearly, the economic hardships we face because of the crown virus will be affected by social differences. Both national research and statistics, as well as the research and warnings of international institutions, bear witness to this fact. It may remind us of a serious warning from David Malpass, the bank manager of the World Bank, that the bank predicts that in 2021, about 1,100,50 million people will fall into a state of poverty as a result of the economic crisis following the pandemic. It is a frightening prediction that the nations of the world must take seriously and respond with all force. National research and research show that Iceland is not a major risk that the crisis for Covid-19 may worsen inequities and contribute significantly to the social isolation of certain community groups. Three groups of Icelandic society are more affected than other groups of the labour market and are at greater risk of poverty and inexhaustible poverty. These are women, foreign - born people, and young people. The figures prove this, as the majority of these community groups have collapsed. People of foreign backgrounds have been a very large proportion of those who have been employed in tourism for the past few years, but the situation of people in that trade has certainly deteriorated during the past few months. Women's employment initiatives have also been greatly summed up by the Covid-19 as shown by the Habitat Office. Women have done more than men do in the ministry, but this crisis is especially difficult to deal with. In addition, national studies show that homework has adversely affected women in the labour market. They are more likely than men who now work at home to care for more responsibility for the household chores they produce in the work they do through telecommunications and computers. Women in the educational community have produced significantly fewer paragraphs in Covid-19 than men in the educational community. Today, young people are also in a more sensitive position. It is a high percentage of young people in the ministry, as stated earlier. Unemployment statistics also show much difference between young people's unemployment and older ones. This trend is yet another evidence of the development that has been going on long before a pandemic, which is that both the income and property gaps between young people and older ones have greatly improved. Unfortunately, the numbers of generations continue to rise, and Covid-19 will be watered at the mill of the bad trend. Mr. President. Unlike the labor markets for the collapse of the Icelandic banks in the fall of 2008, unemployment had increased in the last year, 2019, and long - term noncooperative work, i.e. individuals who had been without employment for more than a year had been increasing. At the beginning of the year, before the spread of Korean virus and disease prevention measures, some 10,000 people were out of work, and about 1800 were classified as long - term workaholics, had been unemployed for over one year. In September, that's it. had reached 18,000 people without employment, of whom over 3,000 were long - term workers. At the same time, the number of young people who do not have employment or study has increased. It is clear that very clear and specific measures are needed to avoid this unemployment leading to an even greater financial problem in homes, poverty, and inequities with the related cost to society. It is important to keep in mind that about 40% of the unemployed are foreign employees. Much of this group lives in rented homes and has had no resources comparable to housing owners, to form a payment break, and in a similar way not to benefit from a decrease in interest on the mortgages. The most effective way to support jobseekers has an increase in basic unemployment insurance benefits as well as an extension of the improvement period to meet the observed increase in long-term noncooperative activities. Madam President. This must be learned from the last crisis and the negative experience of the nations that attacked the cuts and weaknesses of social infrastructure. The dramatic economic breakdown that is going on today can't be met by a government cut. For one thing, it has to be replaced by 34 billion annual income losses for which the state's government's nontermittent tax physicians have been paid by other means of earning, as the current income base is, unfortunately, not sustainable. Second, there are many employees in public service under intense stress because of the pandemic, who had been put under great stress because of the cutting requirement and long term maintenance following the economic collapse over a decade ago. Of course, it is large health - care professionals, large women's groups, who had been fighting for a better term for the pandemic, for having an adequate salary for their jobs, and who had to remain under strict pressure to obtain adequate pay and recognition. Third, because of the pandemic and because of its impact on the physical and mental health of the public, there is a high need for services in the health and social systems. Therefore, safety concerns need to be strengthened rather than engaged in surgery and maintenance procedures that will deepen and prolong the contracture. As government spending increases, public funds will be replaced. This calls for reimbursement on the part of the government to up to 3,35,40 billion for 2023,2025, and economic recovery becomes slower than present, and there is a real danger of such a physical improvement. Success and basic services must not be used as a responsoring operation in terms of financial gain, and payment of debt must be on the basis of vigorous resistance. Madam President. It is extremely important to develop a clear policy in Iceland's commercial affairs. A clear business policy is an important step to support the economic benefits and challenges we face when the greatest challenge for the crown virus breaks down and the dust begins to settle. Madam President. The budget is subject to substantial losses due to the economic impact of the spread of Covid-19. This involves not only the economic situation but also political decisions to change the tax system to the level of the State's income of 37.8 billion. lower next year. This is a sign of danger, for the tax system changes must never be reduced by the ability of the state funds to live up to what is supposed to exist, which is our foundation, our welfare system, our education system, and our health system. Similarly, at such times a wealth of government will be able to provide needed building and injection into our community. Therefore, I believe, in the present situation, to look at the recording of super-paying taxes, high - income levels on income taxes, money taxes, and a fair price of resource use, along with the largely more bold step in the so - called green taxes and green charges of contaminated activity. There's an opportunity for government power to earn fair and just money and to live for the coming time and for the huge task of climate change. We must face them with bold decisions. I'd also like to criticize the plans for changing the fiscal tax presented in the fiscal bill, which includes a decrease in government funds of 2.1 billion a year. Well, Mrs. President, it's much less than that. The decrease in taxation to capital owners should not be more important in the current situation. The government's work is primarily to ensure that people's survival and to produce work, to keep people from falling into the trap of extreme poverty and long lasting poverty. Again, I remind you that you need to learn from the experience of the last economic crisis a decade ago. At that time, people were enabled to educate themselves out of the crisis, out of unemployment, which was tremendously good. However, the development and explanation were not yet understood, and the result has been that unemployment has been the most common among academics in the lack of identification and development of serious educational policies for those with increased education. In spite of this, this warning, I would like to express my joy in that further contributions to innovation, research and development and education and the increase in expenses for this category are seen in 62% of the current budget. It is good to see, as well as to see that the government is ambitious to increase the level of promotion to the university that increases the government's goals for making university contributions closer to those in other countries. Pays to the jury increase by 1.6 billion dollars. and in addition to the added prices and remunerations of this product. That's fine, that's very good. But when we're making more money into the important categories of innovation, research, evolution, and education, it's very important to create a policy all the way, professional policy for young people, professional policy for academics, and professional crisis. We also see this in the reactions of other countries to Covid-19. Job policy in Europe is very clear. There is a dwindling number of the work that makes possible that it is one of our greatest challenges to get young people to work, that is, to create valuable jobs, to make green jobs. Now's a song, we need to talk. We need to discern the need, and we need to identify where we want to direct people in their education and in what work to do. There has to be a clearer policy. I would like to remind you that in the review of the All-American Union of Iceland, Iceland is the favorite boat in most European countries when it comes to molding a workforce and predicting the skills of the workforce. There's no way that for Covid-19 the unemployment of a college education group was the largest country in the country. But there we can gain and take advantage of the experiences of other countries that have shown the importance of investing in the right education and the right skills, not only during school years but also over all their years of age. I'd also like to mention just art and culture because it's disappointing not to argue with funding in the financial bill to take advantage of the opportunity, when we need creative employment tools, to begin working on the solutions to the housing problems that depend on the working of the Art University from his institution. The League of Icelandic artists calls to mind this requirement, which is now a song. Iceland's art school plays a key role in the building of a professional life that the government has declared to be its vision, a professional life that is exactly based on innovation and creative articles. Therefore, it is important to place art schools in adequate housing. There would be something that would be good to do now. Also, I would like to agree with what the Union of Icelandic artists reports on the importance of identifying the budget and plan to examine solutions and resources for artists to complete the regular registration of economized articles. We can see that Germany did this, e.g. with a lot of help to react to Covid, so that's a song. I'd like to, too, because time runs away from someone who's amazing, celebrating and accepting the BSRB account of the sex laws. The most serious statements from the Alliance of the Union staff of the state, as well as in addition to the investment and building initiative, are subject to the gender effect. That statement contains a definite expression. It speaks of an increase in a competitive fund that will benefit men rather than women. 85% of the workers involved in the implementation of the investment campaign are men's jobs. So the campaign will add to gender discrimination, as shown in the budget. Of course I agree with what the BSRB says in its review, i.e. that women's unemployment was more than men in September, or 10% compared to 9.7%, at which point the unemployment rate has also increased faster than that of men due to the impact of the pandemic, while women are more active in the most critical sectors. It's a pretty hard judgment that the government's investment and building campaigns get from the BSRB, a function of equality. At the same time, it is still there where women operate in the greater part of public service, the services of children, the elderly, and the sick, and the treatment of disease. I hope so. A legal committee may consider this, and hopefully it will do in some way. We also see that one third of the women working part - time because of caring for children and family members as well. Women are more likely to become weak because of the pressures they face in a job situation, especially in caring and teaching. In addition, they generally have the lowest salary of everyone in the labour market in these sectors. Then there is the incidence of disability. There, the debate has become a big part of the incidence of disability among young men, but statistics about the incidence of disability have been rather crooked, so this debate has been misinformed. In fact, women over 50 are more likely than anyone else to be evaluated for disability because of the pressures they have had to put on, both for the crown virus and for the present state. I'll direct these words to the Chairman. The legal committee here in the hall, and I know he's going to take it to himself. Madam President. What we have to do here, to deal with a crisis like those we're going to experience and have already happened, is to protect the perimeters especially from this terrible economic crisis of the crisis. Otherwise, the crisis will be a targeted tool to increase the built - in discrimination of the system, which is exactly what we see happening here on land. We see figures from the Southnes and here in the capital area, as well as from rural communities who have had to rely on the movement that has completely collapsed. [[The president calls.]] On the contrary, it is the world's greatest economist in recent years, Thomas Piketty, has suggested and more eloquent economists. [[The president calls.]] I trust that we will look to the future and increase good and green jobs, that we will become more poverty - dealing, and that we will prevent more inequities and work against climate change. [[The president calls.]] That's what we're going to have to unite about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u133	Madam President. First, some of the things I mentioned in my earlier talk that I prayed for. The legal committee to review the discussion, I just want to make sure that the case will be taken into account between the 2nd and 3rd. But I would like this second talk to briefly explain the adjustments I propose to the budget. It is about keeping frequent products free of charge for the needy. Pronunciation of the availability of frequent products for young people free of charge has been reimbursed, e.g. Youths in rural society are meetings and exceptionally being taken very well by local authorities, but for some reason it never seems to be a big deal of activity on this matter of fairness, because it always requires something to be taken into consideration and then it just doesn't happen. In the fall of this year, the General Assembly was asked to cancel their taxes on menstrual terms and to offer free menstrual products in schools and social centers. In these words, Anna María Sonde and the Saga of María, the daughter of Sæþórsdóttir, wrote that it was at the same time possible to stand with a womb and be exemplary for other countries. In fact, since then another country has overtaken us. This occurred in the fall when the Scottish Parliament agreed to legalize the rights of those who need to obtain free products. Anna and her Saga came to a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee in connection with the budget work and got a good reception there. I think they were mentioned in most committee views that came on the income bandorm last week. In the end, however, members of the Committee generally claimed to have a clear understanding of the concept of procrastination of menstrual taxes. On Monday, the General Act was adopted on tax and tax returns without any changes in menstrual terms. The other committees that Anna and Saga challenged were a financial committee that could have found the means to secure access, as they suggested, that free menstrual products at places where young people are most likely to be, and even most likely to get into trouble if bleeding starts on short notice. More and less changes are now being made to the budget and are not put forward in this direction. Therefore, I have proposed a self - changing proposal for free products that offer us the opportunity simply to take our stand on this matter here at the Assembly Hall. The suggestion is that Iceland adopts a system similar to Scots. We're talking about two groups, on the other hand, frequent products will be available in elementary and higher schools and, on the other hand, people with low incomes can approach them freely through public sources. The transfer will be passed on to the health minister in cooperation with other ministers, e.g. Ministers of education, or rural areas where appropriate, so that the project will be carried out as planned. To cancel the cost of recording this Scottish system for free products, I set up a rough schedule, a simple account problem, which would probably work fine, and then I needed to see what it would do. So the first group is a group of people aged 13◯19 years, i.e. people in senior high school and high school. 50% of the population of this country at that age is estimated to be 5,500. So there's a group two, I'm talking to people between 20 and 45 years of age, and taking into account a low payoff rate, as measured by the Laboratory, is the ratio of 5% where I landed. It's probably the part of people of this age who are below low limits and are likely to have their period. Among them, we would be talking about a total of 7,000 individuals. A precise application of this would then be reasonable in the hands of a minister. It's a total of 22,500 people, and if we set 1,000 bucks. the cost of menstrual products per month is up to 280 million. The suggestion involves adding that amount to the budget. I think people in general find 280 million small amounts of money, ordinary people that are not talking about thousands of millions of days on a daily basis, but we who are working with budgets these days realize that 280 million are easy steps to take if it is about something fundamental. It's, like, a... The same amount as most of the economic and business committees suggested at the start of the week to raise their application fees and it did not raise the reaction of those who trusted in it to support that budget. So I have strong hopes for it. Congress members take on the proposal and support that we take this step to ensure those who need access to this necessities and that one of the resulting changes in the approved changes of the proposal will be as easy as access to toilet paper in schools and vacation centres.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-10-35.u134	A respectable president. I wanted to end the discussion I've had today regarding questions I've asked several members of the council, both in the administration and in the government of the biographies and in the social security situation. This has been very clear in the comments of members of Congress that I have asked that they do not want to answer the question or that they answer some other question. All it tells me is that the answer is no, i.e. that they do not believe that it is justified that people who are living on social security gains an increase in biographies. For my reasons, it would be easy to answer yes to that question, saying that there is no money for it. That is the answer, much better than not answering. We are once politicians, and we should answer the questions that we are directly interested in. At least that's what I think of it. It is simply a political decision to give one hand of life contracts with a centenarian increase in the lowest salary - that is, in fact, as much an increase in anything but the highest - but not in the other hand, do not increase the centenarians for the forwarding of the state. The Ministry of Social Affairs said it was pretty hard to make a dollar raise in social security, since a raise in a dollar would simply go back and forth all over the place. But it's probably just a bad math thing to start with. Then ask the question: What would it take for social security to increase the percentage to make 10,000 bucks? in the end, with the cards and everything? The answer to what I've been given after asking about it is 7.1%, not 3.6%, as in the budget, but 7.1%. There is not a very high number in history. These improvements have previously been increased by 12%, 13%, and 14% in the previous years following certain structural changes or failures after the collapse, making the decision to raise the progress of social security by 0%, precisely nothing. A decision was made not to comply with social security laws and to increase by 0%. Government officials have answered this evening when asked why the social security benefits cannot be increased in the same way as in biographies, that it is only legal. Yes, technically, I can agree. That does not mean that it is not possible to add. This is the minimum to rise. The law guarantees certain rights, minimum increases. A government can always make a policy decision to increase more. The general body can do the same, even having financial resources. Let us compare this with another very similar group of government forwardings and being promoted according to general pay development, of course, only the general remuneration of public employees. They're senators, and they're getting their own ratios up. We don't get a raise, we get a ratio increase according to the general public pay development. I asked what the increase was supposed to be during the New Year's season. It was originally supposed to go into effect on July 1, but because of the epidemic, I was determined to postpone the annual increase, so I asked: "How much is the pay of senators and senators during the New Year's season? I didn't get an answer. I asked the Ministry to bring them back after the weekend, last Monday, so there's enough time to prepare the answer and bring it here on Monday. On Monday, I asked: How much should the salary of Congress and Ministers be increased? Then the Ministry had no answer, and it was to be sent immediately after the meeting. Then there were days. Now it's Thursday, and I'm told, after the push has been made, that it's coming tomorrow. It'll be interesting to see what it'll be, whether it's 3.6% or something higher, whether it's going to be a raise like in the biographies or something. I just wanted to make it absolutely clear that, yes, it's being carried out by the strict conditions of the law to increase the progress of social security. But no, it doesn't have to. The government, as with all other government policies, can decide to do something else, beyond its minimum duty. That means everything. Let us be crystal clear that it is clearly not a political decision to do anything beyond what is absolutely minimum under law. This minimum legal level is a small problem, as the law says that the implementation should follow general pay development, which does not exist as an economic size or anything else, or a minimum increase of the index price. In the more than 20 years where the law has been in force, the addition of social security has not increased beyond the index price of consumers to be considered, i.e. under the weight of pay development and the expected index of consumer prices was lower than it really became, i.e. the increase, as it was determined in budgets, was lower than the pay rate, and the index price of consumers became in practice. It wasn't even true that the advance increased, at least not as much as the index price. During those over 20 years, however, this number has remained somewhat constant beyond the index price of consumers. In general, the elevations have been higher than those of inflation. In those 20 years or so, such improvements over the index price rate are just less than 40%, 20% above the rate of pricing. A report on pay raises at the end of the time by the European Union, the State and the labour market, which was submitted in 2015, showed that the pay of public employees and public markets had increased by almost 80% over the prices, the power of money had increased in ten years by 70-80%, while the public insurance enterprise increased by less than 40%. This difference shows us what the problem is in either the legislation here is about the minimum amount of social security follow-up in general labour development, or in the implementation. Either the law is defective or if the goal is to follow general pay development, because that's the difference between 40 percent points, just in this decade, let alone in 20 years. That's the problem. When we see today the decision to raise the biographies of a dollar, to raise the lowest dollar wage, but to make a social security investment, with a ratio of less than average, 3.6% and not a 7.1%, this difference increases even more. I think it's crystal clear and completely clear that it simply isn't a political will for the government or can update social security in the same way as the lowest wage in the biographies. A special decision is made to increase the lowest salary in the general market. A special decision is also made not to follow a similar course for those who do not have the right to strike. Councilmen do not have a strike rights and could, in effect, be saying that they depend on exactly the same conditions as the advancement of social security, i.e. ... it'sa certainapplication money. If we have a salary, there is also a pay forward, which is exactly the same. The difference, however, is found in the law where the law on raises the members of the body is actually used to further the development of public employees' wages. How much that salary has actually increased the salary of senators, but in the forwarding of pension, it is a general trend in the general market, a predictor of who it really will be. She's been lower repeatedly. Again and again, I think there are six years or so in this 20 case, where there has been an increase beyond the highest salary development, over the most accurate guess on the salary development. More reports from the European Union show the development of pay from local workers at the same time as it is being shown how pay-counting is developing. The pay sheet develops slightly higher than the pay of public employees has developed, indicating that the pay sheet is fairly accurate. It does not say 100% of the exact amount of pay development, but it is very close. When we say there's a 50% shortage of social security advance, if we're going to make the pay sheet, it's just pretty close. That's exactly what everybody's saying when they're talking about who the numbers would have to be for the forwarding of social security. If the 50% was added, we are now in that number. People are quite right in their own standards, something remarkable. It's a project we have to deal with, but at least it's not a problem with the budget right now, at least. fix it according to the biographies agreements. This problem is not addressed, and as a result, it becomes even greater, and the future problem of coping with it becomes even bigger.
