ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u1	There have been letters from foreign and development co-worker to provide written answers for spell inquiries. 869, on trial and non-conviction executions, from Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir's daughter, on a threshing floor. 584, search for submarines, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson; on a deck. 1052, on the influence of foreign countries, on election results, from Hrafn Gunnarsson; on deck. 124, the Ministry's comments on legal opinions, and on trinkets. 113, on the commitment of the Icelandic government to properly introduced EU types, the European Court of Justice, both from Ólafur Ísleifsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u2	So much about the third part of the program that a short dose has passed since the distribution of the changes made in it. 1409 and must be agreed to accept the change in schedule. The variants will be viewed without vote if they do not speak out. No one acts against it and is accepted by variations. So the suggestion can be placed at the meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u3	Finally, the president wants to suggest that there is a vote for an end to the discussion of the 3rd or soon thereafter and that there will be no further votes today. That vote will be offered on a reasonable notice, e.g. will be started on the fourth part of the program and will be postponed when the vote is due for all. Senators can reach the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u4	To answer, financial and economic ministers, foreign and development co-operation ministers and educational and cultural ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u5	A respectable president. It is not overhistoric that the problem we Icelanders face is huge. It is vital that we take him by firm and firm. During our restoration, we understand the weight that rests all day on the government and that we have supported and will support its action to alleviate the hardships we face. We've been trying to get close to this, as I've said before, by how we can help. This is not just a matter of government but of the nation of all. Today, Icelland's foundations are in a harrowing state. It's a very complex situation, and I'm not asking a minister to step into a dress struggle or give out certain messages to form an investor at this stage. Safe transportation to and from the land is the lifeblood of the people. They are needed for our tourism, but they are also essential for the import and import of our Icelanders. In Iceland, frequent air travel to most destinations is a key factor in making Icelandic fish available as soon as possible in a foreign market. The nation's competitiveness is partly bound to this. There's a bad option in this situation, there's a worse option in this situation and that's the worst option in this situation. The important thing is for us, however, that the import and export are insured and that our relationship with the outside world is ongoing. There's not enough uncertainty. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister in this complex position, which I have full understanding of: What is the plan of the government? What is the plan if there is a breakdown in the progress now regarding air travel? How will the government step in to ensure this vital link between us Icelanders and the outside world?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u6	A respectable president. It is our plan to support the Keflavour International Airport as a North Atlantic Air Force, as Illeland has been doing in the past few years and decades. It has the value in Icellands for us Icelanders. This is the organization that's built an air-traveling system through the airport at Keflavík, on the North Atlantic Airport. No one else has ever volunteered to try to perform this role, and it's unlikely, I must say in my part, that some foreign people would try to step in. That is why the government has already responded. I'm sorry about having a broken flight trip to the country, they've already read a tremendous amount of light. The government has had to negotiate with the company to keep out minimal flight routes to Boston, Stockholm and London and is, in fact, striking out today's plane supply compared to what was a few months ago. All our plans for this. Now, the company, which is a registered market company, is working out the situation and working out the challenges you face. I think it's clear to everyone that if the programs that have been introduced don't go after them, the company is headed for bankruptcy. It's just the situation, and it's not a myth to come to that conclusion at this point because it's obvious that the company doesn't live long without pay. It's right in front of us. That is the serious situation, and therefore the government has decided to support this program by saying that the Society's plans will continue to be supported by possible Kingdom responsibilities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u7	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. A minister to the answer that I thought was a realistic view of the situation, and I thought it was honest what was presented here. It says that it matters to me that the government published that there's a plan and I thought it was the highest level of words. Secretary of the budget that it is. At any rate, that's the way it is when we get out of here and talk to people that we say, "We're doing everything to eliminate uncertainty. " One uncertainty is that there may be a very difficult transport, not just now, it may be a normal time now that it will be a support for transport, but for a long time we will secure this import and export, as I say, and also a transfer of people to and from Iceland. How important it is that we are ready when the land opens, when we need it, and are going to have more exports, once all roads have been made secure! I want the government to do everything within its power to eliminate uncertainty. [[The president calls.]] That's the job.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u8	A respectable president. I emphasize in this regard that it is those who are now interested in society's business to reach a conclusion. In this way they have the support of the government, to reach their decision, and then the State will bring up discussions of Kingdom responsibilities with certain conditions that they will need to negotiate. If, however, the members of the company are not able to solve the financial problems of the company, there are new places that cannot be reported at this moment. I'm not worried that, for a short time, it's impossible to secure flights to the country. There are many ways to do this. However, the major challenge that we face in common, fails this experiment, is to rebuild a society that can play a role in this vital role with Keflavour Airport as a northern Atlantic airport. There must be a number of scenarios to consider in that context, and hopefully those who are going to bring money into it from the private sector. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u9	A respectable president. Lately, we have the highest. Secretary of the budget has managed to deal with the insurance policy. Many of these have been published, which is kind of amazing. First, the law of insurance seems to be moulded into stone of a god or of someone, that it is unchangeable, but at the same time it has the highest power. Secretary of the budget points out that the social security system is on the level of jobs. If it's so serious that there's a price insurance policy to be made because of sensibilities, because of investors, I'd like to ask, "Why on earth does this apply only to the social security company, really disabled people who are able to get e.g. the amount of cars and the amount of invisibility that has been installed since 2009? If she had been critical, the person today should receive 1.5 million instead of 1 million; he cannot get out his car to work, to see a doctor, or anything else. He already sold the other car. If an index had been involved, he would have had it, and he would have even had 0.5 million leftovers that he would not have needed. Why is that? Is it accepted that a government by the government decides that these parties are the only ones who will not be rewarded? A million each year's price, 2009, equals 1.5 million today. We're talking about 426,000 k. who are missing, just because it wasn't connected to an index. What justice is there in this? Is this premeditated for identifying such individuals, or is this a mental error to be corrected?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u10	A respectable president. The answer is that these are not the only people who cannot assume, as it is true, that the amount of money that has been decided on in our system will follow in the future. The government would be in deep trouble if the entire outpost was insured. Then there would really be an automatic charge without a particular discussion here at the council. But, in the end, this particular matter is really a question of how to break down the space that is available to the relevant seminary of our welfare system to our individual teams. It's a matter of opinion. A senator brings up the matter here primarily into the discussion now as a result of changes in gangs, changes that have not turned into the prices. The changes, not inflation, are making cars more expensive in shopping, and therefore the cost of making these vehicles is relatively shorter. It is highly considered that we can make it happen in both directions, both when our currency is growing stronger or weak, that it is so fluctuating how strength works to meet the costs we are here to help men. I think that's because of a good tip from a dog. A member of the council that this important purchase of those to whom it is due has greatly reduced the relative support. But it does not have the price to do in my mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u11	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister will answer, but I completely disagree with him. If it had been insured, this man would not be in this situation. That's a complete fact. That's why it's incomprehensible that insurance can be cut out just over there. A minister must be in opposition to himself when he points out that it's okay to cut out, but it's not okay to cut out the insurance on the apartments that have already gone up by 203/430 billion. Even professional organizations are concerned about the process, saying that now there is a danger of inflation. Now everything is up, building science, cost, and so on. Because of the way inflation, there is an incomprehensible phenomenon that can be taken out and crossed over insurance in one place and then say: No, it's a natural law of nature, you can't do that in the other places, i.e. for the homes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u12	A respectable president. It is of good interest to report here that the government wrote last year under a special declaration linked to the biographer agreements that discussed the insurance and the composition of the index. It called for the employee movement to assume that for the council, there would be a bill where the mortgage would go from the index point of view. In the meantime there have been some events, but in recent meetings with these same partners, advocates of the employment movement, there was a view that the requirement to accept the mortgage was ignored because they felt that it did not serve, under the circumstances of the present, the interests of the worker in the country. That's the position of that right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u13	Mr. President. At the same time that the land will be re-open after the viral epidemic, the government intends to re-open the country for international publicity in Iceland as a tourist country. Already a contract has been concluded on part of the money spent in this presentation with a British advertising firm. It is stated in the case of a member of the country who works at the Icelandic advertising firms that, first of all, the grades these offices received were very small. But it also shows that they believe that the invitation was unfair in that it included a valuable supplementary tax that the British office naturally fails to deserve. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if we are going to rebuild Iceland by exporting, as is being done in this case. I am fully aware that this may have been an invitation in the European Economic Area and if it has been, as I have not doubted, then I must also ask if there is anything in the evidence of these fine men who have come here, that this fact, with the sink, has done a lot to the Icelandic bid. It's about 20% on that one, if I get it right. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it is really the intention of this government to move out jobs and currency to rebuild Iceland. I want clear answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u14	A respectable president. Apparently, a special selection committee went over every offer received in this particular task. Now this project is not in my department, but I can try to share what I think I know about this matter with the council. Senator. As I can see, it was in every situation that men cooperated with foreign parties. All those offering were the cooperation of domestic and foreign parties. For the worth tax business in particular that I notice is in the discussion, it is not right to include some kind of competitive disorder. This is because under Icelandic law, merit tax laws, someone who doesn't have a job in this country but who wants to be served by foreign people, such as An ad agency in this case, an obligation to return a merit tax to the state. It's a kind of reverse credit property. If it were a purchase from a local advertising agency, it would return the merit tax to the state funds, but in this case it is an Icelandroom, the labor itself, which has had to be in accordance with the current value of tax laws to return to the state's wealth tax of the foreign company's service. This prevents this competitive disorder, which I understand very well that people are worried about. It is then another matter of opinion whether a man should have offered only a task like this in this country. I don't think it would have stood up to other commitments we've made. [[The president calls.]] I would once again show that, according to my information, there was always some kind of cooperation with foreign parties at the invitations received. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u15	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. There is, however, one thing that is not quite clear to me after the answer, and that is, he says that shop shops, i.e. Iceland lab, due for the merit tax. If it is to be returned to an Iceland lab, I must conclude that there is not this foreign party, which is to do the job, which is to be returned to this sink. I'd also like to ask a secretary if he thinks that there's only a reason, in which, as I said earlier, 0.82% at the score of this foreign office and the next Icelandic office, to go back over this matter so that there's definitely the rights to be taken in because, as I said before, I'm sorry if we're going to repopulate Iceland by moving out jobs and funds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u16	A respectable president. I have to draw attention again to the fact that this is not a matter of concern, which is directly in my custody. It is true, though, that you are right. A senator says, and has appeared publicly, that there seems to have remembered very little of the people. What I've heard about this, however, is that the person who had most of the points in this assessment was the only one who specifically stated that the cost of spending most of the work at the project would fall within the country, Iceland. We then know that of the total financial resources we have set aside at the council to implement this promotion, the cost of publication is the most important. I think we're moving a case that's important that there's good transparency and all the information on the board.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u17	Mr. President. I don't have to comment on the importance of the special media in an open - air society for free discussion, for access to information and news, for the field of communication, yes, for the sake of democracy itself, Icelandic language, Icelandic culture, and, of course, for all the people who are employed by professionalism and who have long and valuable experience behind it, but now see the threat of its life's work. Also, it does not have to be said that the problems of the unique media were gone before the centenarian had put the virus to its back, and then this problem has been multiplied. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of education on her bill, which was to address the problems of the special media before the Czar's time, but has for some time been stuck somewhere in the discriminates of the General and Education Committee where Independence Committee for which the decision has not been fully exposed, although it is in accordance with a constitution, and though more is quite certain, in this case. What's the bottom line? Minister of this team of colleagues who had previously approved the Senate and the government bill? Does she think it is enough to go the course of independence men, as it has been prepared here at the council scene to address the problems of the individual media? Does the Minister consider it important to have her bill of the media problems done during this council and to consider it likely to be done by the secretary?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for good and warm words to the Independence Party and the media in the country. It is clear that the government is ambitious to support the Icelandic media. There is a great need for our language, it is urgent because of the democratic discussion that the media give, and most important, because of the political, commercial, and political, and anything that is involved in the media. The government's covenant shows that we are going to support the private media. Today, the government has decided to protect 400 million in behalf of the special media, and this is the solution of the currently stated issue of Regulation. On the other hand, I have full faith in it, because of the government's government covenant, that the government is working through this. Committees often set aside an excellent time to work on matters and their progress. I've had a very good cooperation with the head of the General and Education Committee, and I'm convinced that he's very worried about this problem, as is his class.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u19	A respectable president. I have to admit, I'm not that close to this case unless I figure it out. Ministers believe I have a special affection for the Independence Party, which is a controversial interpretation of my words. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But let us not discuss this further. I'd like to side with other serious matters, and that's the problem of artists who have not enjoyed the arts, artists who have their means of life and their means of living by representing people, amuse people. Blas is now in a position for these artists that their operating ground and survival have collapsed in a single cycle and that they do not have to go out in their reasons. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister of education about this, but I'm sure she's taken note of this problem and she's got some ideas about how we can deal with him and meet these people. I'd like to hear some of those ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u20	A respectable president. This is a very important subject. A senator here refers to art and creative articles that are important to Icelanders and to the entire inhabited earth, of course. I would like to say that one of the first things the government did was a special support in culture. When we were preparing it, we had increased support for them, to form films and music, and we stratified it. We did this very well with the Union of Icelandic artists and the whole sector, if you don't mind me saying so. I've heard of people wanting to go over the artistry industry better, even getting a similar exchange, as we're looking at it. I'm very pleased with the cooperation we've had with Icelandic artists. The reason why we should do this is because of the artistry interest, but we certainly did this with the support we gave because of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u21	A respectable president. A student's community center is an independent financial institution, but membership in the Agency has all registered students at the University of Iceland, the university, and the Ministry of Education. Today's Social Services runs students. high school students and students' gardens. Recently, student parks reported response to Covid. Students who suffer temporary loss of income because of circumstances will be allowed to pay 75% of rent prices in April, May, and June. Those who choose this option must have settled the outstanding debt on June 30, 2020. At the same time, students in high school high school students may have had a six - day stay for their children throughout April, and they have still had to pay full fees for impaired high school services. Students are having difficulty in studying and working along with study. It must be kept in mind that working along with study is essential to a very large number, for the loan system is so poor. Students with children who work for the summer may be able to obtain a stipulation loan that is right for renting in students' gardens, much less a further performance. Obviously, it is impossible for most who rely only on summer work. Earlier this summer's work income was presented to students. Students, however, are already in trouble because of their commitments to study and to work. If government measures fail, a good group of students will not be paid until July. Students are already in trouble and have no room for financial insecurity and uncertainty. The requirements of students have been to live in social security, that if the labour market does not, which is, of course, totally vague. Why does the government leave students insecurity in mid - May not know what pay battle awaits them until it is possible in July? You see, students have called for a faster reaction.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u22	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing up the student's position. He is correct, however, that today we presented the social and child - care minister with a massive measure of action to cope with this situation. I would like to mention that the loan fund of Icelandic students immediately took on very visible and safe measures to access the studios immediately in March. There are a few things I'd like to mention. The payments have been delayed by those who need a new education. We've checked every other time. We're making room for a lot of things related to the loan fund. I would also like to mention that we are creating thousands and thousands of new jobs for students. We are preparing some studies on some of the ways that we can study. We've done so that students can borrow from the study they are studying. It's all part of the network, and this is so that students can speed up their studies if they choose to do so. I agree with what. How important it is for students to have equal skills for study! If there is any evidence that this is going to be some adjustment because of the situation we are dealing with, of course, the situation. Afterwards, I'm going to tell about the High School of Education, which is now in the General and Education Committee, and I am very optimistic about the outworking of that matter. It refers to the only major system change that has occurred on the Icelandic loan fund for several decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u23	A respectable president. The problem is already accumulated. It has been observed that 70% of students work with studies, 90% during summer hours. They are people who pay taxes and fulfill their duties. At the same time, they do not get the same rights as others, do not get access to this safety network. The question is simple: Why not? In other words, I'd like to know if it's the highest. The Secretary of Education and Culture agrees with the highest degree. Secretary of Social Affairs for the request to study to get access to unemployment improvements is a request to get money for not doing anything. These measures, such as the minister mentioned, create thousands of public jobs. It's the highest. The Secretary of Education and Culture agrees with the highest degree. Secretary of finance that the stupidest thing we can do at this point is to increase the number of public activity?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u24	A respectable president. I have a vision that one of the best investments in Iceland's state fund is investing in education and any education-related background. That's why we're taking these ambitious measures and trusting that foundation with the action we're about to take. I believe, as the situation exists today, we see that there is a lot of skills error in the Icelandic labour market and that's why we're supposed to take advantage of the position that exists and have the education system very open and offer all the studies we're doing. We are very pleased with the actions we are introducing this summer, but we will observe it very closely. We have to make more jobs with our jobs, that's what we're gonna do. We will do whatever we possibly can to make the position of a student in Iceland the best we can. I'd also like to say that the Icelandic school system has performed a miracle in the last few weeks by keeping high school going and that at high school and college, all of them are students of the study and study food. [[The president calls.]] We're here to celebrate the extent of our education system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u25	Mr. President. I'm here to recommend a fashion adjustment on the deck. 1409, on bill to legalize financial support to less operator for crown virus. The motion has turned to Article 11. The bill. The reason why it is submitted here is that it was not easy for the lawgiver to rule out that a certain operator might receive a supportive loan according to Law III. section of the bill with more than one loan. In particular, there are two reasons. First of all, it would be easier to borrow that the amount is more than 10 million. K. It would be granted in two ways, for not all of it would use the same proportion of Kingdom responsibilities or the same interest rates. Second, a requirement for one loan would provide the possibility that a recruiter who does not fully use his means of supporting loans could apply for further loans. This would generate an abnormal impulse to the operator to apply for as much initial support loan as possible instead of carefully evaluating the need for loans and actually having the possibility of extra loans. With this change, and it is right to state that I had consulted with the Ministry of Economics, the plan is to provide support loans with more than one loan, but the rules of loans remain unchanged in other respects. This gives the lawgiver greater scope for technical implementation of support loans. In accordance with official authority in the bill, the implementation of support loans in this respect can be further considered in the Council of Ministers and/or Iceland's Treaty with credit institutions, such as those where the amount of loans is authorised or required, in this case, to provide support loans in more than one way and to make payment of the operators in such cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u26	Mr. President. Sounds like an improvement to me. But I'd like to use this opportunity to ask who. A senator on the bill we're about to vote for in its entirety now. Here at the House of Congress, I have talked to government officials who are involved in the meaning that they have reduced the Community's transition to the conditions due to tax sludge and national society, that they would not be supported by the government that would have used taxes to subsidies, because it would be unnecessary, because these members had been excluded by the criteria in the bill itself and the changes in the greater part. This surprises me because I cannot identify these fences in those conditions. But I'd like to ask why. A senator, president of the Economic and Business Committee, whether he can direct me to where the fences and conditions are in the bill, which make clear that those who have used and used taxes, dematerialities, and complex transfers of all kinds, to avoid taxes, or to pay less taxes, are not supported by the State during the difficult times of distress we now face.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u27	Mr. President. We had this discussion to some extent last night. It is clear that those who make use of tax snow are not enforcing Icelandic laws and that they do not fulfill the regulations of this bill. That, too, is clear, although the purpose of it is clear. A senator with a motion made yesterday and could not have made it clear that the motion also would not have been expedient of what is called a tax bill. However, it would have excluded many companies, especially young, highly developed ideal companies, from enjoying or applying for support loans because they have functions, including some of them. in the case of the subject. A senator calls low taxes a state. Low taxes are, for example, A state of the European Union. A senator speaks very highly for us to join. In fact, in individual cases, as I pointed out here, in individual articles, individual companies, Iceland could be a low taxes state in the sense of tax law, just as Norway is considered in isolated cases to be a low taxes state, the Netherlands is considered to be a low tax state. So changing the motion. A senator would not have prevented any members from taking advantage of a tax covering and betraying to pay legal obligations for a loan of support. We're just saying that the unlimited tax responsibilities and information that men have paid all their due fees followed the Icelandic law in all things, and that they meet the strict conditions given for receiving these support loans, is what I believe is reasonable enough. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we need to realize that there may be some who try to cheat, violate Icelandic laws, break the laws we are accepting below, just as they violate Icelandic tax laws by making use of tax codes in a way that is appropriate. A senator is concerned. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u28	You can't cheat during speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u29	Mr. President. Hv. A senator tries to complicate matters considerably. But I just want to ask you what. A member of Parliament directly: Does he believe that the conditions established in the transition of the more part on the submission of the CFC annual accounts have to be taken into account, that any actual owner, everything in the Icelandic law, has to be prevented by some means e.g. An Icelander who has a partnership in Tortolu, but who lives in London, then runs a business here in Iceland and finds ways to bring in the income that is being prepared here by societies - prevents such a person from getting support from a government fund right now, so I'll just take a direct example when we're dealing with a pandemic? When we look at hundreds of billions of minus on the state's budget, will the conditions that the greater part has agreed on here along with the Middle Ages make sure that we don't set up a poor budget in this situation of money for companies that set up plots and transfers to cheat on taxes and don't pay our share to Icelandic society?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u30	Mr. President. I saw the misunderstanding in a vote yesterday that some senators believe that their loans are funded from a government fund. It's not like that. It's not a government fund that finances these support loans, it's the clients through their own account and possibly also with a fixed agreement with the Secret Bank, which is then an open loan line. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u31	No Kingdom responsibilities?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u32	Of course, that's government responsibility, huh? Senator. It's another thing, but the loan isn't being financed, it's not to be confused. A company with an operation here, regardless of whether the holding is in the hands of an American, a British, or an Icelander who has some other holding body in Tortula, according to Icelandic law, to pay taxes and obligations, including income taxes, to work in Iceland. In other words, it is illegal to transfer profits from Iceland of the work being done here. [[Up front.]] The other is a different matter, then. Senator, there's another job waiting for you. The Economic and Business Committee, which may be part of the solution to the problem. It is not about the transfer of profits or by hiding profits in any tax industry. Rather, it is what is called cover - up, which is a big problem. However, members of Parliament do not seem very interested in discussing the problem in which cover - up conditions are sold to Iceland for overpriced services to actually leave behind abroad. It's one of the projects waiting for us now, and it's a bill for the Economic and Business Committee, and we'll deal with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u33	Mr. President. I present a committee opinion that has been called the consumer case at the council. This is a matter that has been very deep in our discussion. This is not the first attempt to make a similar case throughout the council. The committee discussed the matter carefully and met with the members mentioned in the committee, as well as with reviews from the stakeholders and associates listed in it. I see no reason to list them specifically here. The bill suggests that the surgeon general's office can provide local authorities with permission to set and run a waste area where intravenous drugs and waste management are permitted under the supervision of employees, in order to meet certain conditions, including those requiring supervision. for reasons of loyalty, safety and monitoring. The bill is a part of a policy to reduce the harmful effects and side effects of substance abuse, to help and protect consumers and their social rights, to their partners and to the rest of the community, in line with General No. 44/143 of 16 May 2014, which I think was right about coming from the Congress party of Porta back then. It is proper to note that the interest and effort of many Martyrs in this case has brought us to the place we are now, to be finishing this case, and is well. The work of the Ministry of Health has also been significant there. At their meetings, the Committee specifically discussed the objective of the bill and the responsibility for the ministry, financing, the rightness of users and employees, and the management of business to partners. The objective of the bill is to allow the institution and management of consumer waste, which is considered to be a decomposed measures aimed at preventing further irreversible damage, improving quality of life, and improving the health of intravenous users of addictive and drug abuse. A general support for the bill's objective was given by the Committee to show that consumption space is important in dealing with peripheral individuals who fall outside other resources. The importance of searching all the ways to reduce the need for such service was also shown. Comments on the matter showed the need to link consumer services to other services, such as health services, social services, legal services, and other services that contribute to social support and a targeted incentive for users to seek medical help and assistance. A greater part of the work depends on the importance of reducing the need for the ministry by integrating it to the extent possible the objective of the bill, to assist and protect its consumers, to improve their quality of life, and to prevent irreparably damaging to the benefit of partners and the community as a whole. The majority of these are included in the indications that the wording of the bill for consumption is intended for long - term users, not to be valid, but not even proper for conditions associated with it, but for individuals 18 years of age and older. So he makes adjustments in the bill in harmony. The committee specifically discussed how the project took place as a member of the rural community. The Committee gave the opinion that the project should be more responsible for the health authorities than for its activities in the rural areas. Then there was concern over the cost of setting up and running waste space, and it was shown the importance of not only the annual pay of stock costs, but the monthly contribution based on the local community service agreement. However, the committee noted that up to 50 million were expected. K. a contribution from the Ministry of Health to set up the options. The majority state that this is a selectional strategy for the community that the Ministry of Health has already decided to contribute funds, which, in effect, agrees with the project to fail at least Partially below the health care unit. The majority of it seems necessary to make a contract between the local community and the Ministry on the cost exchange of resources and the services to be offered in conjunction with the option. The Committee reviewed that those who need to use the resources needed to have a registered community in a local community where consumption is concerned. It was noted that the need for service is highest in Reykjavík, but it also showed the importance of the resources that will be viewed as damaging resources for all intravenous drug users. It was noted that rural areas in the capital area could include, for example, the a contract with the city of Reykjavík for services to the users of the resources that have a legal home elsewhere, and thus in effect, the project is expected to be mainly run in one place. Then there was a suggestion that the bioavailability of disabled persons and people regardless of gender would be guaranteed, since the use of women on a foreign resource was much lower than that of men. The majority of the countries feel that it is necessary to agree and cooperate so that the objective of the bill will be met by those in need of the resources and that it is important to consider the development of resources to be useful regardless of sex or disability. We discussed much in the Committee about the rights of consumer consumption. The bill suggests that a user's consumption space will be permitted to possess the amount of addictive and drug he intends to consume in the consumer space. The Committee discussed the position of employees in consumers, i.e. the use of waste may be considered a crimeless area. The majority of the cohesion takes place in connection with the proposal to authorize the user's storage and consumption of narcotics and narcotics, i.e. that a legal discharge from the law's field is being made to ensure they are not permitted to be punished for their possession and management. This includes not being activated by personnel to report a violation of the law in which there is no violation in that area. The security of staff has been discussed, but the bill suggests that only a member of the country can grant permission to set and run the waste space if the conditions of law are met. This includes: it should be included in a regulation on services to be performed, tasks, safety and ability of the staff and the monitoring of the procedure. The majority of these points to the importance of strict adherence to professional responsibilities, security and staff rights. In this case the majority agree on the need for agreement between rural partners and the following events involving consumers and police authorities to create an agreement on the implementation, including Regarding areas within the immediate area of consumption space, the objective to use it will be ensured by means of the resource. About 1st paragraph. The report states that although the permit holder is a member of the community, it can be entrusted with free partners to run waste space as long as they meet the requirements of the Regulation in accordance with Article 3. the law and the exercise of knowledge and activity. The Committee established a view that the work could be carried out by partners in the form of service agreements with rural society. Reykjavíkurburg and other rural areas could make such a deal with someone who already has experience and knowledge in this field, such as the Red Cross. The committee also stated that it would be necessary for such community records to be made clearly in the arrangement. The majority agree with that and contributes to Article 1. Adds a new paragraph that a rural society is permitted, to agree with a surgeon, to negotiate with an association on the management of consumption to the full conditions of 4. At the same time, the majority point to the Ministry for example that such agreements will be issued as a package of Regulation to increase clarity and transparency. The majority stress that using the resource is taking an important step in dilating health care by meeting a community group that has an important opportunity to integrate other services that aim to improve the recovery of clients. Thus, the majority feel that it is necessary to get the options started by extensive consultation and cooperation with those who must come into the decision. The rest of the part suggests a slight fixation on the bill. In view of the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes in the Senate document. Hv. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen writes under the opinion of the committee in advance. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees. Under the order of the centuries. Councilmen: Helga Vala Helgadóttir Kólnmann, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Árnadóttir Kol Kolbrún Yearnad, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Halldorra Mogensen, in advance, Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir, and Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson. I'd like to thank you very much. The welfare committee for the work on this matter, not just this council, but for the past few years. That work has added a lot, and I think that we are returning something we can be very happy with.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u34	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I wanted to ask you why. A senator on one thing. Now it is clear that in the early stages of this case, when it came to professional consultation, it was almost a review of the committee's activities, and I refer specifically to the police and the office of the state prosecutor. Of the 94 stakeholders who were invited to send in envelopes, the attorney for State was not including, which is, by any means, an amazing job in a case like this. In addition, from the police in the capital area, the bill involves the lack of knowledge about the role of the police. These are amazing statements, and you ask yourself, " How can this kind of work be done when it is not even contacted by people who are moving in this category every day? ' The report says that changes in the bill were made in the light of comments received by a health committee in the capital area and the office of the State Attorney, which was thought to be necessary. I'm not going to trace the comments that come from the chief of police in the capital area and the government prosecutor's office, but there are a number of points in which members of the council must study. Then I'd like to ask who. A senator: Were all these comments taken into account, and where can it be found in the bill so that you can go over it exactly? At least I don't see it at first glance. In case of a moment. A senator could trace this in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. He asks in agreement with both the police and the prosecutors and that changes were referred to. These references indicate a change in the bill given last year, first and last, as well as a considerable tip from both the police and the prosecutor who were taken into account in the bill's contract now and made such a good impression, I think I'll remember correctly, the police in the capital area decided to end up sending a review of the story as it turned out. I think it's okay to inform the Senator here that the commission received a statement both from the prosecutor and the sheriff's office that the subject of the bill as it might be presented would be acceptable to these parties. I don't think there's anything revealed. There's an e-mail communication between public parties that should be kept in the dark. This was taken into account with regard to these indications and anxiety. They turned, and now I'm tracking it down from memory, perhaps to most of it in order to cut off the unscrupulous zone and that it would be guaranteed in what way the workers of these offices should associate with it and what authority they would make so as not to intervene in their consumer companies' activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I wanted to introduce a review received by the Valgerður of Rúnarsdóttir and Addiction, the Directorate of Medicine at the U.S.A. It shows that it is very important to keep our project from working against itself, which must be the purpose of it in its nature. They need to seek that this group will always be as small as possible. Counts 'em out. A senator did not risk the growth of this biofuel biofuel biofuel targeted on the bill? Is that not possible? Even those who may have been in some medical situation may suddenly have access to consumption. In case of a moment. A senator could review this show. In addition, in his review, Specialist Valgerður Rúnarsdóttir's daughter emphasizes that comparison with abroad is difficult. We have better conditions than most of those discussed abroad and associated with consumption. We are a small nation, and the city of Reykjavík is small in comparison with big cities. In case of a moment. A senator could come in only when compared with the countries that the one offering this review feels to be misleading.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u37	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. As the senator knows, the account of Valgerður Rúnarsdóttir was carried out on the bill as it was submitted to the 149th Council, which changed. But it is true that part of the discussion is universal and turns even. According to the senator's comments, first whether there is an increasing potential for consumerism and whether comparison with abroad can be misleading. First of all, setting up a lot of consumption space for people who are using drugs in a vein will increase their consumption. I think it's really far-fetched, at least is not the experience in countries where this route of punishment or inaccessation has gone. For any reason, I don't believe in it. On the other hand, when it comes to whether an Icelandic society is necessarily like other societies, of course, that is not the case. We're so lucky we run a powerful welfare system here. We are so lucky that here is poverty and social problems on a scale other than in many other parts of the world and part of promoting this same welfare system and making the status of these citizens better than it would be if we were to improve the welfare of this bill. That's what we're doing and I'm not worried about us taking chances with the bill, I think much more that we're adding services to sensitive groups. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u38	Mr. President. It is very important that the government's actions are clear and serve the desired results in the difficult economic conditions of the nation. It is good to provide smaller companies with close-up grants and support loans. The central class, however, feels that the volume of closure equipment is not sufficient. It could have been extended to more companies, e.g. In the restaurant business, and at the same time, it would have been wise to increase the amount of money. For the final concentration, they are targeted at enterprises which need close by the health authorities as per the advertisement. In other words, we believe that it should be extended further and extended to more companies. Support loans are also important actions. While we in the Central Group support this suggestion, we thought it should have been higher than the standard of living that had been established. Changes have been made in the way of the majority of the objects. We welcome these changes, support this matter, and thus show responsibilities in the opposition. [[The president calls.]] We hope that governments will also support the suggestions of the smaller parts.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u39	Mr. President. I support this bill. Many members of the community have high expectations for legal purposes. It will bring certain solutions to their problems. The bill is not perfect, but it is very easy to support. I would like to emphasize that the government will see to it that its regulations are quickly and effectively carried out, that there is no need to wait for the solution to work, as unfortunately it has been with a so - called masquerade that has become out of proportion. I don't think it's a single bridge loan yet, but all the credit institutions have finally been negotiated to provide it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u40	Mr. President. Piratar and I support the whole mind of the bill's objective of financial support measures for smaller companies and monotonies in serious business problems to maintain the level of employment and economic activities. We cannot support the situation, however, because the possibility of a business operator who uses a tax bill to obtain financial support from the State was not fully covered. Pirates believe that the legislatator is obliged to avoid misuse of any kind of financial support to a company with fair conditions. Of course, that request had not been accepted, the change in its proposal was sadly rejected. We do not stand in the way of a good bill and good goals but sit by.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u41	Mr. President. We at the Union support the bill because the closing concentrations are very important for those companies that were made to close and support loans will benefit many. However, we were critical of the fact that no fences have been placed against those who are involved in tax fraud by taxpayers and societies. It is opening up to such ones to receive strength and support from a government fund when we face this great challenge, when a pandemic occurs. I've noticed, Mr. President, that the executives voted against our proposals in the United States that set up these fences because they thought the conditions were inside the bill. But it's wrong, and it's serious if the executives don't know the income tax laws well enough and if they've been led to believe that some fences are in the bill for these parties. [[The president calls.]] There's none to be absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u42	Mr. President. I support this bill, and it will benefit a great many companies. However, it is sad that there is no more progressive step in setting obstacles that would prevent those who for some reason would like to avoid paying whatever they should pay in our common fund. The others, however, are not to be punished for it, so I support the bill. I think at these times, we realize even better than ever how important our shared consumption is and our core services are not to take it into consideration if individuals, even in a legal way, use some sort of clone and ways to avoid paying legitimate share to Iceland's state fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u43	A respectable president. I support these bills, and I think they've made a very positive change in the activities of the Committee. We have been stressed at the outset that rapidly and rapidly meets the challenges of companies, including some of them. due to the legal closure of certain enterprises. These are mostly small enterprises and mediumsized, and therefore close concentrations and support loans are very important. We need to get the money into the companies right away to work with them. During this fight against the virus, we need to keep our business going. I find it in many ways positive that a company has seen to itself. They are now realizing their social responsibility in these times, which means that everyone needs to be aware that public funds cannot be carried out without asking the question of what comes with those rights. All of us must live up to our social responsibility. This applies to people as well as business.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u44	A respectable president. I support this bill, like the rest of the United States Congress. Yet I will say this: We were here a few days ago discussing the affairs of foreigners and new laws about them. I feel that this case here gives us reason to wonder if there is no reason for us to put the law on the affairs of foreigners, that we handle the tremendous problems and the social ills as tax fraud, tax gains, and shunts, and what they all call together, these ways of avoiding paying off their share to society. It needs to be dealt with for the benefit of all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u45	Mr. President. We as officers have always fought against any kind of tax gain, and that is what we are doing. Of course, the union supports this bill's basic concept. In the majority of these committees, it is claimed that it is sufficient to require that individuals or companies who are supported by a government fund have full and unlimited tax service in this country. This is not as it has been pointed out, and the head of the Economic and Business Committee has made an earnest effort to convince the body of Congress. This applies to all those who are engaged in national activities, and we are being kept in the fog. On this point there are clear regulations. On the other hand, we strongly object that those who have ties to tax land and land are not excluded from the support of the State and that it does not have very clear lines. It can be done. The purpose of looking for tax cover in a low tax area is just one taxpayer, taxpayers, and tax reformers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u46	President. As indicated by the bill's report on the subject, this is due to the interpretation of a policy in reducing the harmful consequences and side effects of the drug use proposed by the Congress of Porta, along with representatives from all classes at the 143th legislation Council. The proposal was approved on May 16, 2014 and sent to the government. It was the responsibility of the government to reevaluate the drug policy on the basis of soluble and humanitarian research on the health and social systems for the help and protection of the consumers and their social rights, their partners and the community as a whole. Healthcare Ministers were assigned to appoint a group of workers to be involved in the shape of the policy and the task force of the task force was three: First, make a assessment of the current legal environment so that the subject can be accurately defined and the preparation of legislation and/or new legislation. Second, consider the legislation of other countries, where there has been no criminal policy related to the use of illicit drugs and fortification of international committees and research institutions for the prevention of drug abuse. Third, create a comprehensive policy that focused on human sensitivity and the protection of human rights, which reduce the harmful consequences and side effects of substance abuse, and by promoting greater confidence in perimeter groups to the community and to the institutions to provide them with services and shelter. The synopsis of the synonym began with a quote from Kofi Annan, whom I would like to repeat by permission of the president: ▪ It is my belief that drugs have ruined the lives of many people, but the wrong policy of the government has destroyed many more lives. We need to look at the course and ask ourselves earnestly and honestly; does it work? If it doesn't work, do we have the courage to change it? This agreement with the 2014 Parliamentary Directive provided a turning point in government policy with the social problems involved in drug abuse. From the beginning of the government's beginning to notice that in this country the use of drugs has been quite widespread, policies based on punishing people for all treatments, whether for their own consumption or for the sale and distribution, should be punished. It's also seen that addiction and drugs law have never had a complete review. Much of the foundation is we still living on the same policy as in 1974, but following the repeated failures of police and government campaigns on drugs and drug abuse, public opinion began to change, and people began to believe that it might be more appropriate to help people in trouble rather than punish them. It was then that the Council of Porta and all other party members of the council were submitted and then agreed together with the support of all classes. That's why her approval is so important. It marks the beginning of an important and broad change in government policy. As noted in the report on the current case, which is the prime concern of consumption space, it was first submitted to a 149th legislature, but in the light of comments received by the welfare committee, the police in the capital area, and the state attorney's office was referred back to the government for further implementation. At that time, it was observed, in the opinion of the welfare committee, by permission of the president: The Commission's review also showed that the aim of consumer consumers would be best achieved if drug abuse were to be used unjustly. The committee points out that it will not be easy to eliminate punishment for behavior that is generally illegal within a certain area based on a view of loss of injury. The bill's report points out that consumption is primarily a means of relief for those who are far - led to addiction and with little hope of quitting their consumption. Adherence to the disease is taking steps to recognize that these individuals are primarily suffering from disease. The committee feels that there is good reason to see if there is any basis for the lawgiver to go further in meeting these individuals so that they do not be punished for the disease. Therefore, the Committee directs health care to work progressively to eliminate punishment for the possession of doses of drugs. Under this opinion, representatives of all classes are writing on the welfare committee. The bill for the consumption of criminal possession and treatment of intravenous doses of drugs in a specific area. Still, there is no way to get to that particular area without breaking the law. Although the police have claimed to look away from the law, we are putting laws here that directly assume a crime. President. Although I'm here to point out the flaws in this bill, it's still a good thing, and I'm celebrating it. I would like to commend the highest. A health minister in particular for the vision and for the courage to contribute this matter, for this is an important step in the path I hope to which we are on, which is absolutely criminal. This bill is a good subject, and I really support it as long as the lawgiver doesn't want to go any further. That's why I'm on it now. What I find hard to do is that this crime could be prevented by a criminal possession of drugs all over the world, thus ensuring the protection of the human rights of those who use drugs rather than just a small group tied to a specific location. The report on consumption and the need for legislation is presented by the President's permission: ▪ In recent years, the ideologies of detoxification have developed and become more widespread. As noted in a health minister's report, the shape of policies to reduce the harmful consequences and side effects of addiction and drugs, the assistance and protection of consumers and their social rights, all members and society in general, agreed within the group that the report should address the health problems of consumer drug users rather than those of the police and the justice system, that consumers are in trouble mainly patients but not criminals. The bill we are discussing here does not completely cover the aim of viewing the problem of addictive drug use in Icelandic society as a health problem, rather than the police and the criminal defense system, at least not the concern of all consumers. President. This will be discussed at the World Health Committee for the Council for the Change in Addiction and Drugs Act, which is proposed to ban the possession, purchase and receipt of chemicals. This bill, I proposed, and as the bill of Pirata, with its approval, would be all the manners that consumers of drugs might use from the law and the criminality of consumer drugs would thus be assured. The bill is transferred by members of five different categories of members of an outside body of eight members. The committee has received visitors and is considered ready to accept the criticism given to them and also from a conversation that has taken place within the committee. The commission has been introduced to the committee. So there is no basis, then, for the Commission to hold up their conclusions and to address the matter quickly and carefully following the agreed case that we discuss here so that we can ensure the real damage and the real protection of these groups and make sure that the objective of this bill is fully met.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u47	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Here is actually a fundamental change. Iceland has been following a drug - consumption, sales, and distribution ban and are actually changing that policy. Then you ask: Is it not possible that the public is opposed to the public's drinking space for drug addicts because they are accepting drugs and that perhaps this could lead to an increase in these drug abuses? What I've been looking at, at least regarding the experience abroad in this respect, there are neither companies nor individuals happy to have the consumption space close to themselves, i.e. Make room for yourself. This is one of the challenges for consumption, where it should be. As I say, the reaction of people abroad has all been that way. What I might have wanted just to get past it. A senator - I make it clear that the most valuable thing I am to help these addicts, to stop using drugs, and to want to see more money in them. Have these treatments been carefully mapped, whether more money can be put on it and tried to help people stop using it? I just wanted to get past it a little bit. A senator and then, if she could review it, would it not be reasonable for the public to express their opinion in this matter, because this is a natural change to a core policy in our system, that is, we are changing our core policy in these matters? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u48	President. I'd like to start by asking why. A senator backs up if he realizes what he is doing with his validated words when he is discussing these matters and if it would not help us to approach this discussion with just an open mind. Then I'd like to mean, for example. that talking about this resources, putting up a waste space, or talking about delinquency, is in some way accepting consumption. It's not about that at all. It's about acknowledging that those who are in trouble when it comes to drugs, that we should not punish them, but that's what we should help them. We are acknowledging that this is a health problem. These are very sensitive individuals who need help, not punishment. That's what this is about. As is the situation today, these individuals are punished, peripheral. We just know from all our research right now and the knowledge we have today that when we punish people who have problems with drugs, we're increasing the problem. We're deepening their problems, and we're making it harder for them to recover. But I completely agree. Of course, a senator said that we should place more money on helping people. I'm fully supporting it, but then there's a variety of resources to be available because it's not possible to stuff everyone in one box, but it's not the same option that helps everyone. We are all different, and we are all dealing with different problems, so there is a wide variety of options. Regarding the question of public opinion about this change, I think it's important that these changes are human rights. [[The president calls.]] It's human rights. As the situation is now, we are embezzling and punishing individuals, and we are denying them the help that others in the community have the right to have because they are drug addicts, and that is a violation of their human rights. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We're fixing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u49	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I can't quite figure out what to do with it. A senator means that I am using a validated word; I was simply quoting what I read about experiences abroad from, e.g. to the location of this selection. I specifically mentioned in my objection that I had certainly wanted to see that these individuals would be helped by all available means and in an effort to avoid drug abuse. This is so important to me that I support all suggestions in this regard. However, I am concerned that this strategy might lead to the development of those with, for example, the individual. being in a treatment situation and walking on the straight path, step by step, perhaps seeing temptations in the fact that the bioavailability is easier, and the natural legal, if it can't have a negative effect. The bill then states that it is permitted to negotiate that police officers will not take action against users of consumption in certain areas around the house of consumption. What does that mean, anyway? Senator? Does this mean that a drug dealer will be allowed in a designated area around the drug range? Is it not possible for drug dealers to approach this area and thus find some shelter from the police? I don't understand it any other way. It says here, for users of consumption space in certain areas around the living room of consumer space. I get it so that there's really no criminality around this place. You wonder, " Aren't there some wrongdoers who sell drugs that try to take advantage of it? ' In case of a moment. A senator might come into it for a moment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u50	President. In a specific area, the bill on consumption permits, so to speak, to take drugs into the vein. It is not authorised to sell, dosing is only allowed, possessing intravenous doses of substance in a designated area. The reason is that one of the most vulnerable groups of drug addicts in the country is being tried to control the country, in the community. When we talk about an increase in bioavailability - when you are advanced in drug abuse and using intravenous drugs, you will seek out the drugs you need, whether they are available or not. This measures do not result in an increase in bioavailability. This just means that people who use intravenous substance, whether they can safely or not, are about to do it, and if they don't have a safe place to do it, they do it somewhere where they don't feel safe and then people can die of overdose. And no one is there to help them. That's what this plan is about. It's about people who are about to take drugs intravenously, whether we want them or not, whether society approves of them or not, they do. But we're making a safe area where we can protect and help this group. Throughout the world, experience has shown that this increases the likelihood that these individuals will recover and stop using intravenous substances.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. You feel that it is indeed burning on this subject and that it has been made since her being held at the council and probably long before, she has at least Talk about it for a long time. Because of it. A senator went into the gang of crime only because of what he was doing. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's children insisted on the experience from outside the world - and where I know it. A senator knows a lot about the situation in the world, even though there is a short time to answer - I wanted to hear briefly whether the experience we can compare with with, let's say, is positive or negative to consumers and criminal abuse. My second question turns to how things are in praxize here. You wonder about those who work, for example. In law enforcement, in health care, or in the company of young people, whether these people might be able to guess what consumption and criminal delinquency are proclaiming, what is the policy there, in their daily activities despite the fact that they are not legal today. Has a what? A senator notices such things in all the talk that takes place about these things in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u52	President. I think it's pretty clear that there's a change in policy when it comes to damage around the world. How we understand addiction and approach solutions and resources are changing completely. I listen to a lot of AA meetings. I find it interesting to listen to what people are dealing with, and alcoholics often talk about alcohol being not the problem, that alcohol is the solution. This is the same as we can see with other drugs, i.e. that substance itself is not the problem; it is the solution to those who abuse drugs. As a result, we need to examine the root problem and begin to attack the problem. If we can approach the problem in such a way, people no longer get on drugs, and that is what we need to look for, not punishing people for using this one solution they know or know in their lives. In Norway, a very extensive report has been published, which I have actually asked the Allied Information Service to translate to some extent, because it does not exist in English. I understand that after a lot of work in Norway to examine solutions and minimisation approaches, people have come to the conclusion that crime is to be done without harming an individual's means of ruling but putting capitals in resources, varied resources, drug users, and stopping punishing people, rather looking at them as health problems and helping people. I'm sorry, I burned at a time, I don't remember the second part of the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u53	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an attempt to answer and simply repeat the second half of the question that points to whether it is. A senator feels that those who are now serving in the field, law enforcement, social service, or medical services, pursue what both consumption and criminal delinquency are proclaiming, looking through their fingers, despite a clear law code on the contrary, i.e. that there are people in the business who use their humanity beyond the law and how they feel about it. Then I'd like to ask you what. A senator's involvement with the condemnation and excommunication, whether she has a feeling that it can even lead to more intense consumption, the constant condemnation of society, leads to even deeper problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u54	President. Yeah, I've just been told that people who are working with drug addicts, e.g. with children who have a drug problem, they actually work out criminal ideals, harmful idea reduction, because if you punish those who abuse drugs, there is no trust between them, and in order to be able to work with people in recovery, that person needs to trust you. There is very little confidence in a system where you are always at risk that the drugs you need are removed or that you are punished for your consumption. This is obvious, and I think it's becoming more clear to many who are working on it, more and more people are realizing that this approach will not work out if the goal is to help people. We can see from studies done, it says itself, if you think about it, that what you know about addiction has become overwhelming by making us not well connected. We do not know how to shape these vital connections, wholesome relationships, with loved ones, with friends, with people around us, with society. As a result, we have an unhealthy association with drugs or with cigarettes, alcohol, or whatever it is. We are now learning that to a large extent, this is what is causing addiction. In my opinion, if I may be sentimental, the answer is not to push away people with connection problems to straddle them, but to open their arms, admit them, accept them as they are, and love them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's the answer. Then all of a sudden, we're looking for people to be able to recover, that's how I see it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u55	Mr. President. The prime health minister mentioned here will be allowed to set up and run the drug use room. The aim is to reduce the harmful effects of addiction and drugs. This should be a legal protection environment in which addicts, older than 18 years of age, can abuse drugs intravenously under the supervision of health care professionals, as mentioned. The bill includes changes in drug and drug laws and allows the surgeon's office to allow a local community to set up and run waste space according to the specific conditions listed in the bill. First, you ask, Has this group been properly mapped? The information available on this group and the possible resources for it has been collected, and what tools or resources would be most suitable for it and bring most and best results? I want to say this here, of course, is the most valuable thing in helping addicts to quit using drugs. What is the situation when we discuss here making them room for legal consumption? There may be some evidence on this, but I would have liked to see this topic discussed in that context, i.e. the most successful resources and where the money is best spent. Does the government place enough money on this important matter party? In this way, I refer to resources that can cause my death from drug abuse. The failure of the consumers mentioned here may cost at least one thing. Fifty million. K. Each year, there is no doubt a careful estimate, and likely there is this work expenses, etc., although there are certainly good groups in this group for voluntary work, for health care professionals, and, of course, it should be evaluated and thanked. Mr. President. I would have wanted treatments to be more related to this discussion and to discuss this matter, their success, and whether we can improve our ability to deal with it. Iceland has been following a ban on consumption, sales, and distribution of drugs, as we all know it, and this is why this is changing that policy. So you wonder: Is it not possible that the public is opposed to the public's drinking space for drug addicts because they are officially accepting drug abuse, and this may increase it when the access has improved in this way? There is a concern that has been observed in the treatment arms who have expressed themselves on this bill. Is this not the case so growing that the public should have their opinion? Let us not forget that there is a fundamental change in the course of this group of issues. I mentioned earlier that neither business nor individuals are happy to have such space in their environment or within their own reach. It is one of the challenges facing this issue, where consumption space should be. The response of people to commercial consumption has shown that people in general are opposed to such things in their own environment. It's just that way. In many parts of Europe, Canada, and Australia, waste space, as well as studies indicate that these functions are effective. However, you ask, "Is my situation comparable? " It has been pointed out that there is some other reality here that differs from what is known in many foreign lands. Reykjavík is not a big city. In large cities, the problem is often far more apparent since addicts maintain themselves, e.g. centres, train stations, or around shelters for them. Some addicts in Reykjavík may not be as visible. But this does not change the fact that knowing about these unfortunate people is a responsibility on the part of the government and is not doing anything to help them. Again and again, I reiterate the importance of helping these individuals. The government is to work hard in that, but if it's the right methodology, I doubt it. I hope I'm not right, but it's very interesting to look at the experiences of the nations in this regard. I want to make it clear that it is necessary to discuss this matter and look to police comments that know this party very well. According to the chief of police in the capital area, the bill involves ignorance of the role of the police. The chief of police in the capital area under the bill that occurred at the early stage of the matter is highly critical, and the State Attorney agrees with them in his review of the matter. According to the bill's report, there is certainly a question on the judgment of the police at any time whether judicial action will be taken against a person who is on the way to consumption, either with caution, maintenance of materials, fines, or charges. It is suggested that a rural society make a formal or informal agreement with the police on how to proceed with law enforcement in the area near consumption space. It's been recorded for the bill, and it's fine. This was not done at earlier levels, and it is clear that the preparation of the past situation was very lacking, especially in dealing with the police and the district attorney. The chief's review says that a warning is not a formal plan that the police have the right to use, nor is it mentioned in the law or in the operation of the police. On the contrary, the police under law are obliged to stop illegal behavior and to follow matters in accordance with criminal or other laws. It served to protect the police from legitimate measures in the handling of a case, and they are under obligation to start a police investigation whenever it becomes necessary to obtain knowledge or suspicion of criminal punishment. The review also points to the fact that the bill does not contain an exception to the illegal drug law and the treatment of drugs in the Icelandic economy. According to the sounds, the bill assumes that the consumption of the materials is punishable in consumption space, not in the bill itself, which assumes that the defense of chemicals will be punishable. I came in on this earlier in answer to what. A senator and executive for the bill Halldóra Mogensen that in the bill the police are allowed to agree that the police do not take action against the users of consumption in certain areas around the house of consumer consumers. I feel like there's a missing definition here. Which area are we talking about? How big is the area? I think it's very open, and it's absolutely necessary to explain further. A man is concerned that, as I mentioned earlier, if this specific area around consumption space could become an area where drugs would even be sold to those who are consumers in this commercial space. How should this be avoided? I think it's unclear, and it needs to be discussed more accurately. A police chief has noted that for this time drug abuse was not personally considered to be a penalty, nor has anyone been accused of taking drugs merely for their possession. There is no exception in the bill from the penal authority of the previously stated material. Police officials believe that if the bill remains unchanged that law, it will not interfere with police duty to uphold illicit drug and drug abuse and to confiscate them in accordance with law on addiction or drugs that would have the police to confiscate to the state funds of the laws and funds in an illegal way or otherwise in an illegal manner. The bill assumes that the penalties of staff consumption will be punishable by the death of a dead person under their supervision. Is referred to as a crime - free space. The police chief describes doubts about the text of the article on the lack of workers, ending only the bill being taken to the drug law. In the bill, the fact that any criminal action in the consumer space will be punishable, obviously not the goal. Then there is an inaccurate description in the bill of consumer dosages as well as criticism in the review, assuming that a consumer may carry one dose of consumption into the consumer space at a time. The definition may be relevant, both because of the planned criminal possession but also because of the possible responsibility or irresponsibility of an employee in the surveillance process, the user of an overdose will be killed. All of these are very good comments. Some of these things have found their way to the bill, but I can't quite figure out what it is. They can't be found in the bill. In addition, point out what the preparation of this matter was lacking when it comes to consultation. It is interesting, then, to read the details of the discussion with the chief of the police in the capital area. It says that before the projections of the bill were published in the board's consultation guide, meetings have been held with the specified bodies, including The chief of police in the capital area. The meeting was not about consultations, but it was announced to the health Department's staff as a planned bill. This bill had just been decided to come forward, and really the police would have nothing to do with it. That's the only way you can read it. The police staff immediately made comments to the plans and mentioned most of the points in the review. It is clear that this is a natural place where humans have been thrown to the beginning of the work of this case and with the wonder that it was done in this way. So I continue with my review, there is a plan to change the law of the police and her duties in the treatment of criminal matters. In view of the fact that the proposed change is complex in legal matters, it would have been appropriate to consult the judicial committee and the Justice Department of Justice, giving reviews of the bills and other suggestions on judicial rights and judicial rights. The U.S. attorney general's comment on the lack of communication is very interesting. The agency says that the case was in no phase, I reiterate any points, I worked together with the district attorney, and I did not serve among the 94 members who received requests from a health committee. I repeat, the State Attorney wasn't among the 94 parties who were invited to submit a bill that is about to legalize the use of drugs in certain consumers. This tells us everything that needs to be said about how the committee has been preparing this matter. When I asked why. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, in answer to whether this comment had been taken into account, was the answer that e - mails were not made comments. I haven't seen this e-mail. Why isn't it put in here on the bill that they don't make any comments? I'm just asking. Hv. A senator told them that they did not send in another report. Is it necessary to send in the same review all the time? This is very clear, and what I feel is the nature of their language. Mr. President. I have to say, I'm kind of speechless about this lack of communication with these important organizations, and I think it's strange in political people, and I'd like to be taken seriously that they didn't do this at the point that was normal to bring to these parties. The district attorney gives comments to the bill stated by the chief of police in the capital area and makes it clear that he does not feel right to accept the bill while there is no evidence of any changes in the authority and authority's rights to the bill. It's interesting, Mr. President, to review the comments on this matter, for example. FEW with questions on how to make sure that the project does not work against itself. That's a very good question. They need to seek that this group will always be as small and as possible. Isn't the danger, Mr. President, that this group can expand with this consumption space, which has become easier access and penalized? That's a question we need to answer. What will prevent any growth in this group from becoming when it is legalized at certain sites? In addition, a SÁFES report shows that it is true that this group does not get into the health - care system, which is simply not correct. Information points to others, this group attends the medical system, and they receive a service where necessary, and they are certainly entitled to do so, and they are tried to hold on to the people who move there in order to be maintained. Besides, there is an interesting review from the Society of Alcohol and Drug Administration that presents a number of questions that need to be answered. It's, for example. Ask about training staff who is not healthcare professionals and who is training them, whether they are expected to receive some help to help people in their treatments, they ask for it. According to one alcohol and drug counselor, it's important that the matter be won much better before it goes into the process of payment, and you'd like to consult staff at the pharmacies of the National Hospital, staff of the U.S.A., and alcohol and drug advisers' society. Here, though, are some comments that point out that the matter is not working too well and that it has little to do. Of course, there is concern in this process. I would have thought that when it comes to such a big matter, because it involves a significant change of direction, people would be better off. And I'm going to have to have my final words that, based on the data I've been reading and reviews I've been considering, it seems to me that the matter has not been handled well enough, and that advice has been most familiar with those in this class, both with police concern and also with a drug counselor. I'm sorry it hasn't been done. And it is evident that there are still many questions about this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u56	A respectable president. I have to go over everything I disagree with. A senator about in a talk afterward, since I will not have time to review all the details that we could discuss. I cut it down, both in speech. A senator and his answers to another man. A senator, Halldóra Mogensen, suggested that the people or voters have something to say about this. I want to know how it is. A senator can see that precisely. To give him some ideas of how it can work, e.g. can be had in a constitution that allows the nation to call for binding national law on a case that could be approved by the General. I haven't seen much support since then. Senator. But what is important in this regard is that there are some grounds given, not just what one member of the body feels might interest someone. Rather, there is a process, some clear definition. The same is true of the government phase. The law says that people can be called upon to vote on something that is unique to 20% or higher. Pirantics have proposed a bill to allow rural society to change the proportion so that it can be lower. In other words, to make it easier for the citizens of the community to take a direct part in such decisions as the expected building of the other or this institution here or there, I suppose, within the limits of what we can allow ourselves to be released from the individual's freedom and even by the law. But, hey. A senator proposes the idea of looking for voters. I want to know how. Hurts me. A senator poll? Does he want to keep a national bill on it or check the Facebook, or does he want to apply comments sent to the General? Or how to see it. When it comes to decisions made by General IIili, a senator will be able to activate the democracy?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u57	Mr. President. I think this case is so growing that I think the public should have their opinion. This is where we make a basic change, and we figured it out completely. The democracy is activated in a variety of ways, e.g. in Reykjavík, where residents of certain neighborhoods can vote for specific projects, etc. People's democracy - we've been talking about it. The Central Party has spoken for civil democracy at the state level of the county. I really don't want to rule out that if there's a certain area of consumption built up or in some country where the people have something to say about it. Therefore, the introduction is followed, and those who follow these recommendations can speak their thoughts and recommend them, reasoning them out, etc. I think the public and the people in general are curious about these matters, and the experience abroad shows that people are not pleased with having consumer space in their environment. It's just a fact, you can read about it, and that's the experience abroad. So I think it's only natural that the public can express their own opinion in this regard. It's gonna change a lot of things. It's just that way. There is a set of space around consumption space that is actually meant to be criminal under the bill, so I think it's perfectly obvious that democracy can be activated in order to get the people's will in this regard. Hv. A senator is familiar with the natural process, which is a great spokesman for civil democracy, a direct democracy, I think I know, so it's just very easy to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u58	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator that I am very interested in democracy and in various suggestions in this regard. Politicians tend to want to throw off such decisions when they realize that this will be in their favor. It's not democracy in my opinion. Democracy comes from the grass root, which is among its own voters. I have not been aware of any interest in voting on this matter in a national or national vote, no one. On the other hand, if he were to appear, it would be important that such a matter be guided by clear communication instructions and regulations. It's, for example. One we're not supposed to vote for in a national law, i.e. Whether this or the other person should have free speech or not, or whether this or the other should have a fair trial, or whether it should be equal to the law. We don't vote on it because there are certain restrictions on that tool. In a speech or two. I heard nothing of the wireting of his democratic ideal. That is why I fear, first of all, that it violates equal terms for the law or freedom of the individual, who is not okay. And I feel, however, that as an amateur of democracy in no way is obvious to me at all. A senator's mind would be equipped.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I am confident that if it was desired, he would take advantage of the election. This is about the community in rural areas where inhabitants take part in various decisions relating to their neighboring community. I don't think it's wrong for them to tell me if there's going to be a lot of consumption in their community. I just don't think that's a problem. I reiterate what I said earlier that there is a good presentation on the subject and people can make an informed decision about it. I don't think it's complicated. Senator. It's the same thing that people vote on, whether or not they're going to fix this nursery or anyone else. This is just one of the factors that would be very easy to carry out. I think everybody sees it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u60	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. It may have been good for you to do so. A senator seeking his sister's home at night. well-being committee, huh? paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún of the Year's Árnadóttir, who sign the committee's opinion on this matter. She could have informed them. A senator of a lot of things he came in here. He was, for example. a shock to the fact that the reviews he read on this subject were not being addressed, but they do not apply to the case we are considering today. I can at least tell you what. A senator's concern. The welfare committee specifically approached the police in the capital area and to the state prosecutor on the previous reviews that both offices said had failed because they were no longer relevant, because the bill had been changed a lot. It was then asked if the office might want to return something, e.g. comments, and in both cases the answer was no, that the bill that had now come up with a device on all the facts of the past. True, it would have been better to bring it into the committee's opinion, but sometimes it is not written in the committee's opinion but rather what it is. But at least That's the way it is, and I wanted to inform it. Just about the options: Why not look to others for treatment? Then I'd like to ask who. A member of the council to see if he or she is concerned about dealing with decommissioning options that focus on some sort of cure for this disease in medical institutions or clinics. [[The president calls.]] Looks sharp. A senator so that if one route goes out, will another be cut off automatically? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Because of what? A senator mentioned earlier that I was going through reviews at the earlier stage of this case, which is not relevant today, I would have chosen that it had been said here in history or in a committee study that all those comments had been taken into account. I think it's just normal work, and it's normal for me to ask that in this discussion because the reviews in the past were just very serious, in all of the treatments. That's why I say, if there's an e-mail that the sheriff of the capital area doesn't make any comments or anything, that it's just good and blessed, it'd be good just to get it out of this discussion or in a committee party that should have been. But in terms of whether one remedy eliminates another, that's not what I've never said. I just said that I wanted to see it, in the discussion here, get it out, see if all the resources available to this group have been charted, what the results are, what the amounts are put into this year, and whether they can be more successful. That's what I want to know. You feel a little sad about drugs and drug addicts, emotionally speaking, that it is really merely an improvement in the sadness of these consumers. I would have liked to see these individuals recover and to be eliminated from their drug habit. That's what we all want. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u62	Mr. President. Yeah, I couldn't agree more. Senator. Of course, all of us would like to see no one become an addiction. Our goal must always be to eliminate drug abuse if possible. But now addiction has been defined as a disease, and somehow it is a disease that makes it difficult for us to eliminate it completely. We will seek all ways to seek medical treatment, temporary or long - term, or try to relieve the sufferer. And again I say one thing doesn't rule out another. In this case, rural society is authorized to open waste space where it could possibly be useful and to build some kind of confidence in addicts of the system, health professionals working there, lawyers, social workers, those who will work there, and possibly the police. There's been a lot of things going on when people get so far into the addiction world that they're injecting themselves and if there's any way they can build a little bit of trust there, I think that the person is closer to stopping than he was before he walked in. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's all I'm saying from experience, from my former jobs with addicts.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answer is excellent. Of course, it is very difficult to identify with those who have serious health problems. It might be interesting to get the attitude of the caregivers, e.g. Parents and family addicts, how they view such matters. Would they have wanted to see that more money would be placed in the therapeutic setting, that any available means would be sought rather than to contribute to this situation, to this solution, if it can be called? I think it matters too, and hopefully we'll see to it that we can raise the money, and we're supposed to do it for treatment. I thought the review from the LA, for example. very interesting, which is concerned that this may increase your consumption. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's a lot of concern to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u64	A respectable president. I can answer one question from what? A senator immediately, i.e. Whether parents of drug addicts would take advantage of this. Yes, they would take advantage of both the training and the assistance and also the consumption space, because there is one thing that's totally grudging with that resource; we take here big steps to take the youngest of the individuals out of the shadows, from a disgusting situation in which they get clean needles and where they can be observed. If they experience overdose, they may be able to help, which may not be possible today. Unfortunately, I know of young people who could have been helped, they just overdosed, but nobody was there to help. Then there is another recommendation to do this, i.e. That we take the drug addicts off the street, that we remove them from the shadows, from the children's playgrounds, from the playgrounds where the needles are available. The bill shows how this level of consumption has affected Skyen, Copenhagen. The experience shows that as soon as the consumption space arrived, 90% of the needles disappeared from the environment. Just that one thing tells us, and should say why. Senator, we're on the right track. We have to stop being some hamsters inside a box, running a bicycle, and think we can get out of the box like that. We have to start thinking it over again. We're talking sick people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u65	Mr. President. I wasn't asked anything, it was just a speech. A senator so I don't know exactly how to answer it. [[Up front.]] I had already said in my speech that I thought it necessary to raise money for treatment. I've said it a few times, and I miss having had some kind of a report or analysis that the funds that are going to be placed in this waste space could be more useful in treatment options and if treatment cannot be extended. Hv. A senator specifically notes that people are being picked up for some sort of cloud dust, etc. which is a very sad situation, and all that, I take my heart to it. Is it not possible, then, to extend some kind of assistance related to bringing these people into treatment? I'm just asking, I mean, it's something I think we should look at. Do we not also have to make serious comments from those who are familiar with this class, and have it been suggested here that these measures may possibly increase the rate of consumption? It's from professionals who've been saying that. Isn't this something we have to look at, too? I think so. Because it's increasing the bioavailability, it gets easier and it's gone unsupervised. And what about those that are, e.g. to resolve after being treated and sensitive, etc.? They may see an easy way to get back into this disaster, which may also be possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I was asking simple questions, if he didn't think it would be much better to know that there's a plan where you can get clean needles, that you don't give yourself an injection in the playground, and that these needles are not a risk of children sticking themselves. We know that these needles pose a high risk for transmission of hepatitis C. Is this not just a positive step? And also, there are people who inject themselves in basements and bogs where it's very gross, it can go, I'm not saying it's going, but it can go. It is also impossible to contact these individuals for treatment. They come if they will, and that's what's only the truth. I've seen this, I've been a policeman for seven years, almost 40 years ago, and I've seen most of the ugly aspects of these matters, unfortunately, and they have to say the same as they are, they're sick people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. It has been observed that these individuals have good access to health care. This is made clear in a review by the United States. This does not prevent these individuals from attending all their medical services. Thus, it may not be quite correct to assume that their bioavailability is being improved to health care. She's already there to be fed. I'm going to stress it again, okay? A senator, I believe that we should seek all resources to prevent the real improvement in the availability of drugs being done through these consumers, which makes me feel that my options are most important. That's my opinion, and that's been my introduction to this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u68	Mr. President. Here we are in 2nd. on very important matters, the bill to correct the change in drug and drug law, in terms of consumption. Yes, what happened may be true. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's son's offer to the opinion presented here, and, of course, it's a piece of legal advice. It would have been easier to keep it drunk. But it's good to have a meeting where you can fill the holes, so to speak. There are a number of things that aren't mentioned in the committee, and mostly what they didn't show up, because you usually do it in a committee meeting but don't say what you don't say, otherwise it would be considered quite long. It will come, for example. not in the committee's opinion that the police and district attorney have not made any comments, but it has come to the conclusion that the police and district attorney felt no reason to comment on this bill. However, they had made comments to older bills, previous bills, but their comments had been taken into account in this bill. We're talking about damage reduction. That is what this is all about, because addiction is a disease, and we need to meet that disease, as we encounter other diseases. I've come to realize that in the past, it is difficult for mankind to eliminate all of them. But we try as if we can find cures for sickness, and when the short or long - term cure doesn't seem to work, we try at least to relieve the pain of the sick. And that is exactly what they are doing in this matter. Disappointment is a ideological attempt to show those who are dealing with the drug disorder humanitarian treatment, some likeness, and meet these individuals and, of course, make an attempt to form some relationship with individuals who could possibly lead to the root of the disease, the spiritual ill that is based on distrust, which is based on a number of factors that the individual has traveled through life, that it may be possible to win by showing respect for the individual instead of excommunication. This is what will be harmful. The Red Cross of Iceland, an international human rights organization, has run some destructive measures in recent years, first of all, Konkot, then Mrs. Ragnök, in Reykjavík, a car that serves as an addict, and then Miss Ragnhök, in Akureyri, a similar car. A reduction in space refers to policy or to projects, to work primarily on reducing the negative health, social, and economic consequences of both legal and illicit drugs. The decrease in attention to people who use drugs and their families, the whole community and the community, the damage to all of us. The person who does not suffer contempt, excommunication, and punishment is less likely to engage in antisocial behavior by various crimes or such. What would be associated with the risk reduction is the emphasis on preventing injury rather than on self-administration. Thus, there has been a reduction in the damage to human health and human rights rather than in health appeals. That's the damage. When we look at the consumption and how they are considered, it is based on these studies about harmonization, but in addition to appeal into the health system, because it operates by a healthcare professional, the social system, because it speaks of becoming a socialist, and other things, even into the justice system, because it also speaks of the person being able to have access to some kind of legal aid. Those who are deeply involved in their abuse of drugs, their illness, have often been coping with many problems in this area. Only drugs were introduced before, if we were, because drugs, drugs, drugs, they could be used in this area, opening the door for drugs and sales. Of course not. This is a big misunderstanding. A senator who claimed this because drug dealing will still be just as illegal. It's illegal to sell drugs, and it'll be in there too. Drug dealership must not be allowed to take place in drinking space. However, you may take a portion of alcohol with you to consume in space, but you could not sell the doses or sell the local drugs. It's illegal and it'll continue. This is a legal warrant for rural society to provide space for patients taking drugs. A space with staff working there can be sure that it is not breaking the law. As we noted earlier, it can be quite complicated for an employee who is working in this environment to come to work and are at risk of being called on to help an addict. And once again, I don't get tired of saying that, "The drug is a disease, not a crime." In terms of our options, I think we need to rethink them a little bit, the resources we have for addicts and others who abuse drugs. We run a high-tech hospital at Vogi, who has patients in hospital. Also, we have an independent organization that runs a treatment home, but it seems to be a very small total policy in Iceland's treatment strategy. There is too long a waiting list for admission, but there are walking units and the walking departments seem to be the ones who get first in a tight time. We have, for example. saw it in Akureyri, where it was threatened when a recession became the northern walk department, which would quickly be shut down to the services of a vast territory. Of course, we want to help those who want to stop using drugs, but one thing does not rule out another. It may be that the patient is far bored that either he or she is not interested in quitting or just not relying on it. There are many people in this area who do not trust the health system, who do not trust the social system, and who do not trust the police at all. It is also what counts into these resources that consumption can become, that it is built up by trust. More often than not, a person who is very advanced has shut down all the doors in the system here and there and has lost confidence in the whole system. I think this confidence and this recognition of the person and that it's come on its terms without judgment, without prejudice and humanity, will get us pretty far into the fight against consumption. And I don't think so, but I'm sure. I've been watching what's been going on, for example. Mrs. Ragnhöfur, of the Red Cross, is an amazing work that is taking place there because the love for the human being is all empty. When you somehow develop trust, you are more likely to be able to reason with the person that help is available to get out of the habit. A problem may be hidden, but it is there. Making a lot of consumption doesn't create a problem. We know more about him because we see him, but he's still there. He's hidden because his consumption is a disgrace. We just have to admit that in Reykjavík and other towns around the country, there are addicts. They like to be near other addicts to get to someone else, to get some connection, but the fact that we here in the East don't see them in consumers does not mean they're not there. We know they're there. The problem is there, and somehow we need to grab it. For the public to ask, this bill has been for the treatment of the Council all winter and often before and has been discussed, and it is for anyone who wants to, it has been permitted to send in envelopes. But even though I'm a big folk democracy, it still seems to burn a little bit with us that we're ready for almost anything but just in our neighborhood. Then I'm not going to talk about the most condemned group in the community, but even to those who are facing emotional challenges. Even those who face mental challenges have to endure the fact that whole neighborhoods are going off the farm for them because they cannot have such ones in my neighborhood at all. This is called Šnimbyism (U.S.A.). I don't know what that is called in Icelandic. If you wonder how we as a community can rise and cast off those who face mental challenges because we do not want them to live in our neighborhood, we can imagine how we will act if the addicts are supposed to be near us somewhere. And we have, at least, seen it. So I don't really know how we're going to keep a national law on this, whether the national agreement would eventually be about the destruction of this group. I hope not, because among them are great people, as in all groups. The attitude of those in my care has made me feel very positive because this option does not encourage consumption. Rather, it is good for all to know that their offspring, mates, siblings, parents can at least Search for help and in search of a mere human feeling. Being a addict is very difficult, trying hard, and it is especially a difficult situation to know about a family member or close friend outside that the individual is not entitled to serve properly, is not entitled to shelter, and has actually shut down all doors when it comes to the quality of the health and social systems. We are not increasing the bioavailability of drugs, no matter what. We're increasing the humanity of the group that has actually suffered the greatest excommunication in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u69	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in drug and drug law, a drug use space that has been, as mentioned in many speeches, to treat a welfare committee. Since my entry into the council, I have remained loyal to my convictions and have voted against any law that increases drug or wine availability. I don't suppose any of the talks you've been given or will yet be presented will change anything about it. I think it's also quite clear, a respectable president, that I will not spend the duration of the council in repeating what has been said here. Many of them are very good, and I want to agree with them almost everything. paritaprevir Birgir's Þórarinsson said earlier, so there's no need to repeat it again. Many people think that I am making the decision to consider a matter or that I have taken it just after I entered the council. It's not like that. I think I was just in my early 20's when I was in the company of young lndependence, and it was true that there was one man from the Western Islands who protested that the government wanted to sell booze at camp. Nothing has changed since then, although, in fact, I haven't been spitting it out with my booze at the time. This is nothing new to me, so, of course, it does not change. I would like to agree with what was said here about Mrs. Ragnhei's staff. They've often come to us on a welfare committee, and sometimes you can see them in your home when you watch them on television interview that there's someone with whom you meet at work. I must admit that I deeply respect the care and love that it shows to my clients. That's absolutely clear. How they, in their secular work and in their leisure time, have been exemplary in caring for these people. There is a certain group of individuals who really need such help and facilities. It's been very quiet. However, I would have felt that this bill from the minister would have assumed that this special group would be helped instead of having a lot of consumer space that is completely open to everyone. This presents a real danger. The treatment agents and experts have told me in the conversations I have had with them about these matters that if young people who are starting to abuse get in that position, in a shelter to inject and take the drugs, it will speed up their fall into consumption. They will soon become total victims of addiction. It will not fail that all of us who have observed this world and have shared in helping people in various ways experience the miserable disaster that many have experienced and will not talk about the status of parents and family members who suffer in such a situation. It is quite remarkable that every time the bill shows an increase in access to wine or drugs, as is being done here and other bills are on the way, we never stop to address the problems this is leading to, an increase in consumption. Whether it is drugs, wine, candy, or food, there is no doubt that increasing bioavailability means an increase in consumption. We can't deny it. How important it is, then, that we stop who can take advantage of this waste space! I admit there's a group out there that needs such help, but my worries are getting a lot bigger when people want to go a lot farther than this bill does. But I'm not going to discuss it now because it's sad enough, so you don't start adding it up on this. The burning of people to it is very strange. We've discussed this with more people, more meetings with a welfare committee, and there's a number of viewpoints and good advice, which is totally unmoved in this bill. I think we need to put together to increase education and propaganda against drugs, drugs, and cigarettes. We have seen the success of tobacco use as a result of getting them out of sight of stores. That's changed a lot. I think Iceland is an example of a nation with reduced cigarette smoking and very low levels of drug use. That's a lot of concern too. I would have liked to hear in this discussion that we wanted to strengthen the U.S.A., that we wanted to strengthen Hlagit, and that we wanted to strengthen Cýsavívík. I don't remember any fall here at the budget, where the representatives of this organization haven't called us and asked us for help because we didn't have enough. I don't think I'm going away with it when I say there are 1,000 people in the waiting lists after treatment at these institutions. 1,000 people, very close. Imagine lost value behind all that people, behind all those individuals. It is not our job at the council to expand and expand that group. We're supposed to do anything to reduce it. We're supposed to do everything to help him, for certainly these people are sick and I've never doubted it for a minute or so. But there is a need for self - responsibility, as did the rest of us. We must be responsible for ourselves. It is the obligation of each one to do so. A respectable president. I feel sad that this bill has been submitted, and I will not support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u70	President. I have one simple question to ask. A senator spoke of his position as not new, but it is new to me because in June 4, 2019 it wrote surly. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, under the opinion of the committee at this time, is allowed by the president: The Commission's review also showed that the aim of consumer consumers would be best achieved if drug abuse were to be used unjustly. The committee points out that it will not be easy to eliminate punishment for behavior that is generally illegal within a certain area based on a view of damage. The bill's report points out that consumption is primarily for use as an option for those who are far led to addiction and that there is little hope of quitting their consumption. Adherence to the disease is taking steps to recognize that these individuals are primarily suffering from disease. The Commission feels that there is good reason to determine whether there is a greater reason for legislation to go on meeting these individuals so that they will not be punished because of that disease. Therefore, direct the committee to the health minister to work systematically to eliminate punishment for possession of doses of drugs. Under the heading, the paper writes why. Senator. I'm curious about what has changed back then, in less than a year since then. A senator signed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u71	A respectable president. It is obvious that during the council, I can be offended. That's for sure. But clearly I was sober that day. But why I signed - I just have to admit here and now I don't realize it. But this proves once again that I'm human.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u72	It's good to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u73	A respectable president. In a speech or two. A senator's concern was comparable to that of a stranger. 3.m. South, Birgir's Þórarinsson, and I don't want to belittle them even if I disagree materially. I have noticed, however, that there is a lot of fear that having these areas would provide grassers with more drugs than they already are. Now I have to admit that myself, I'm getting older, and I'm getting less advanced on technology, but I was sitting in a drug firm the other day, drinking drugs called alcohol, beer. Then a person on their side showed me how to get a drug, showing me on his phone. He went into a chat area and showed me where he could get such a range of drugs that I can't imagine anyone ever wanting anything after having access to such things. This area was only accessible to the public. I wonder what. A senator believes that today it is such that drug dealing is a major problem because the course and policy we use today work so well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, but it's just that I don't know anything about this drug market, and I've never seen any steps on the phone, or been studying specifically how much supply is on the bars of town or buying wine there in my backpack or anything like that. So I don't know it well enough. I have not spoken in any of my words at the council today about drug sales, nor have I expressed it, nor have I expressed any particular concern that perhaps I should have them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u75	A respectable president. I have to agree with what. Senator. I just don't think he knows this party well enough, but he doesn't know how it goes in the modern world, how easy it is to produce and distribute drugs today. Cannabis I can teach here and now, you put seeds in a pot, give them water and light. Then it's time, now everyone in this room knows how to produce cannabis, not necessarily the best in the world, or the worst, depending on how it is viewed. Also, a respectable president is not opening up an app today and buying drugs. The idea that the current course is somehow successful in fighting a drug trade is in my opinion a negative. That's why I'm asking here, more dignified president, because the worry, when it's time to be small in the category, is always that consumers are going to grow, and sales are growing. What I'm pointing out is that time has only long passed that there has to be a special area for people to use drugs or buy them or sell them. That time's over, the war's over and the drugs won. The question is, What will we do with our victims?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u76	Mr President, I appreciate your inquiry, I don't know if there was any special inquiry in this for me, but I'm not ashamed of not knowing much about drug sales in Iceland. [[-An answer.]] But here there's a lot of experts in it, and I think it must be that the salesmen have no better word than in this council when they're talking about it and they're not going to get my support. All I'm worried about is the drug use of young people and those who are desperate to tie up and think that we senators are supposed to protect their consumption by reducing the measures that best men have brought to us. We've been following that route well, and consumption space in the suburbs of the city will not be able to help young people who are following the first steps of their drug habit. But we certainly need to help those who find no way out of this. [[The president calls.]] That's what I said in the beginning.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u77	Mr. President. It's such a fun discussion, and it kind of makes you feel all sorts of emotions. But sometimes it is good when you sense that your emotions are running away with you, examining material, and what has been said and written. Hv. In his talk, a senator who loves the YES and the good work there asked why we were not promoting AU and promoting treatment work. Then I'd like to ask. A senator, because I completely agree with him, why he voted against U.S.A.'s support for last week's vote. A smaller part at the General Assembly suggested an additional 100 million for the U.S.A., especially because of the conditions in which sales are currently being sold, e.g. alcohol levels have been greatly increased, and the availability of drug treatments is increasing. But then it pays off. A senator who is so concerned with treating people votes against that proposal. I just want to ask why it was.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u78	The president points out that this question may not be about exactly what is being discussed here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u79	A respectable president. I appreciate the leader of this question, which has nothing to do with this matter. [[For example: Well?]] I've said it again and again to what. First of all, I have not participated in the United States council decrees here in the last days, where one of the two o'clock o'clock o'er was thrown into the council hall and nothing behind it, nothing at all. Everyone has seen through them an offer, how they are presented, and in what way. It's not gonna happen, so everybody gets everything. It is absolutely my conviction that a treatment center will be supported by what is happening in the community today. And trying to figure out an excuse like that is just a really bad ethic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u80	Mr. President. Now I have to protest the words of Mr. President when he says that my question was not relevant to the subject already. A senator who gave the above talk wondered why. A welfare committee would not be at the same time as she is finishing this matter by adding to her financial support to the U.S.A. So I don't see how my question cannot be a direct continuation of my speech. Senator. I think it's a little complicated when it's the highest. The president comes up here from his chair to somehow answer the lines. Councilmen of his class. It's a little special to watch. The question I asked was directly followed by a talk. The senator who complained that the supporters of this matter we are discussing today was not adding support to the U.S. treatment work. Then I can only inform the Senate that I did just that and think it's a good reason, and that's not an offer, then. A senator, to put money in there because it is necessary. Waiters have grown very, very long. It's not an amnesty, it's reality, why. Senator, and it's incomprehensible how the more part can... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u81	The president asks why. A senator getting out of the speaker's stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u82	Never be quick to offer suggestions if they do not come from the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u83	The president asks why. A senator has to respect the time limit they were long, far beyond the time limit. The president would like to point out that he is not laying his lines for trouble. Rather, the senator points out that neither UN nor previous votes are here for discussion but this bill that has nothing else to do with everything else. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u84	A respectable president. I'm not used to it because when I give a talk here, a group of council members respond. But I was reminded by a good man that last week, it was adopted in this hall that 30 million U.S.A.s would be paid. [[For example, consider this: It's not enough.]] It's a farm that'll probably remember something. I know, of course, that the senator was going to drop me in a pit, which failed because it always works out for this senator to lead men more quickly than to get men back on track.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u85	...take care of it yourself.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u87	A respectable president. We're here dealing with a hot potato, and of course, this case is very complicated. I just agree with what. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, I'm one of those people who have a complete amount of antelope on the lists, they feel very wrong. It's a very bad idea to have a waiting list, whether on drugs or on action or otherwise. But from that moment on, I would say that we should focus on eliminating the list of waiting so that everyone can seek help. At the same time, we must think outside the box because we have reached the end stop. I'm asking why. A senator: Is he not in agreement with me that by putting these matters into a certain place and out of the dark - get them to a place where there are clean needles and help, where health care professionals are present and are being taken care of, they are sick - they are at least What were you doing in that regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u88	A respectable president. Thank you for your anti-sponsor. I don't think it's in itself that far between us. We've both antelope on the waitings no matter where they are, and especially in the treatment institutions we're dealing with right now, I'm very worried about it. I also explained in my past that there was a certain group of people who had to put their arms around them. But I also said that we had to be responsible for ourselves, and we had to watch out for the young people, so they don't fall into this pit. We need education and propaganda against drugs, not constantly opening ways to increase our consumption. [[Propaganda: Propaganda?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u89	Why do people always groveling at me here at a council hall, Helga Vala Helgadóttir and Halldóra Mogensen? It's not the first time...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u90	I'd like to ask senators to stay calm.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u91	Laughing and crawling on you...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u92	I want to pray. Senators speaking only from the platform in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u93	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson for the answer. We always seem to have a tendency, and have been in recent decades, to have a waiting list for e.g. Post-treatment alcohol therapy. The saddest thing is that we know that by adding more money to the seminary, we return it. We're reaching out to people, and we're getting people into a normal life and a job market, even studying or something. It's incomprehensible, but it seems lenish to ignore this and have a regular waiting list. We must also think differently about these sick ones. These are very sick people, I can say they are very sick people who have to help in some way too. I'm asking why. A senator: Does he not agree that we should do so? [[The president calls.]] That may be a question, if we disagree, about how to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u94	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I think I've answered those inquiries before, in what I've said before. To help our young ones, we need to increase our ability to guard and train them. I hope that's what we'll get. I also hope that I can speak in peace here in the chamber without delay. The members of Helga Vala Helgadóttir og Halldóra Mogensen are crawling on me in a scarf. [[Up front.]] It's completely annoying, respectable President, that these people, these senators, get away with it almost every time I stand here. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u95	I'll have a case. I was just in the dining room, and I was passing by when I heard it all at once. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson is talking about how I was crawling. I do not have such a strong voice now that it comes all the way from the dining hall. Then I'd like to make a comment to the President's conference board on the way. I don't like it when the President of Congress says it's critical that people are referring to the U.S.A. Senators from a government position, but they do not comment on such a case from the district council members who give talks. I think the President of Congress, although loyal to his team, must this time view all members of the council as just as high, although in other teams one team may be able to carry on one team and not another.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u96	The president wants to point out that there is already a problem. In answer to a question, it is reasonable to note that the question defended the subject under consideration. Neither WATER nor previous votes were discussed here. This is normal when you use the right answer to the fact that it is on the subject. That was only a President's point.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u97	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson complained about the floor of two whales. Senators, who was neither of them that crawled. It was me, a respectable president, who crawled here. I climbed very grammatically, and, in my opinion, well on the subject, for the reason that there was a why. A senator stepped down from a pita. I understand that this had gone to his chest, that I cried out words, propaganda, which he mentioned in speech himself, but I didn't do it to interrupt him, and I didn't interrupt him. The second point I would like to make is that when a respectable president makes comments that members of the council are not discussing what is on the agenda or discussing at any given time, he is bound to take a rather dangerous course, and it is to reduce the freedom of the council. It is the place where members of the Parliament can share their views on the subjects under discussion. It's unusual, and I'd like to mean that here the senators are going out in that matter in a broad sense. Besides the fact that what a respectable president pointed out was nothing beyond the material, that was part of the case. [[The president calls.]] And even if it had been, I'd like to warn a respectable president of going too far in this direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u98	President doesn't think he's gone far this way. It is not new to make such a comment if the material is taken a long way outside. Then there are different opinions about what is normal in that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u99	President. I make a comment that I've been flogging at night. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson. I don't know what it's like. paritaprevir For example, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has already taken over. But I also make comments to the President's conference board. Almost half of a speech. Friðriksson It's really amazing if we don't answer and ask in a speech. Senator. How Should We Choose From? Hv. A senator holds a speech. And then there goes another one. In answer, a senator asked the senator directly about the subject of the speaker. So I think it's a very strange approach and I have to admit that this makes it harder and harder to figure out what's going to happen and not to be allowed to say in the Panta IIs and when. I agree with what. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, I think it's a little bit of a freedom to speak here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u100	Mr. President. I come back up here to protest words of the highest degree. A president who said I'd gone outside and didn't answer. A senator thinks he is discussing something quite different. That's wrong. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson was standing in a chair and said that those who supported the case here were not paying the price of the U.S.A. getting more money in the operating center. It was the content of the talk. I realize that it's a complicated situation to sit in a chair and analyze all the words that come out, but it must be that way when it's the highest level. The president is corrected by his error, and he accepts it. He went out of line where the answer was directly related to the speech of the dog. paritaprevir Friðriksson and a senator's clear right to return without being disturbed by a president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u101	Mr. President. I just want to come into the discussion because I've seen it for a while. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson mentioned earlier. On my behalf, Porta's members with their conduct in the Hall of Congress have suggested that they do not like reason. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson. I remind you that a member of the Congress of Pirata has been accused, or in any case, of being judged by the World Council Committee of Churches, to have misjudged the issue. paritaprevir Ásmundur Frider's Friðriksson. I'd like to say that I find the manners of Pirata's senators... in front of the senator... in front of a few chapters of harassment. Every time I've had it. paritaprevir It's Ásmundur Friðriksson in the symposium. You see Pirata smiling, laughing, or calling out. I've seen it many times. It's behavior that I think Pirats should make a living. It's just that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u102	A respectable president. I've got to start by making some adjustments. A senator who spoke before, it was not the opinion of the presiding committee. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir would have said something wrong. The bottom line was that it didn't matter. It was literally concluded that it did not matter whether they had told the truth or not, that was irrelevant. It should be judged correctly anyway. It is important to discuss this more, and more will be discussed with the future prime committee meetings, especially now that we discuss ethical issues. On the other hand, I would like to reject the accusation of harassment against a dog. paritaprevir Ásmundur Frider's Friðriksson. He may say things that make you smile and others who make you feel angry. It's just part of being human and having feelings, and I'm sure you can be careful that you don't take it out on others. I then ask for a dignified president that the freedom of speech from members of Congress will be discussed on the Presidency Committee. I find it obvious that we do not settle this here and now, although I have to say that I feel that there is good reason for discussion. I would like for a prime committee to meet specifically about the freedom of the council because it is a problem, not just in this case, but in general, the right to control the freedom of the government council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u103	The president agrees that freedom of speech has come into play.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u104	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a change in a bill about a change in addiction and drugs law, with subsequent changes, a lot of consumption, just so you can say if someone has forgotten it. There's a 2nd issue in this case. and was on the program in 1st. In the fall, and has been indicated for the treatment of the tail. The welfare committee has made some changes, and it is a good thing. The matter has been taken into account and, as noted today, it has been noted that addiction is a disease that is not impartial rather than Covid-19. Although this disease is not transmitted to humans, it is defined as a disease that is not partial, and those who become addicted to drugs have different degrees of weakness. Some people get sick that they go all the way to death because of the disease, others stop and that's those who have sought help, treated, or even just went straight into AA meetings. Besides, there are still others who have quit by deciding that it's all right. Then I've believed that they're not addicts but that they're all over well - being and that they can stop eating. But here we are talking about individuals who are so sick that they have reached the final stage of the disease and are often individuals who have no house to spend time with, as we have seen in speeches, which may now be a little overused but really relevant. I want to give this case a chance. I want to know how this situation turns out. But I would also like to state, as the review of treatment counselors and addiction specialist shows, that the project cannot work against itself. It must be taken to them that it does not happen. I strongly emphasize that this will be followed. What I would like to stress is that if the bill becomes law and if this operation is started, the professionals will be working on it so that those who look for that shelter or consumption will have it, apart from all hygiene and all that, access to professionals who can hopefully guide and come to help, I mean, in therapy. It is not possible for people to want treatments that are addicted to drugs; this is not necessarily the case. It can often be a short time, some terrible distress, and something huge that has happened, and then it needs to be treated. We are not talking about many individuals in this place. There's a figure of 201⁄230 people, something like that, here in this discussion. Some of these individuals have had some treatments and are waiting to be treated, and since they were mentioned earlier in talks, they are waiting a long time. Today, in this country, addicts, alcoholics, who have had several treatments, are back on the waiting list, while others are coming for the first time, and there are also ways to do so. So I would stress it, and I would have liked to see that a health minister who puts this bill forward would resolve to shorten a waiting list, putting the missing resources for treatments to be open to those seeking therapy. I have often felt the answers to that question to be a little bit out of your stomach and thighs or, as it were, a professional waiting list. The minister so often speaks of the need to be professional. In some cases, this may apply to some illnesses. Of course, all of this is under way. Medical treatments, drugs, and consumerisms develop, they are developing, and they are always trying to work on these matters, and they find ways to cope with this major problem of addiction. As I said in the beginning, I'd like to give this bill a chance. I want to see how it turns out. The experience of other countries is shown in the reviews, e.g. with regard to needles and similar conditions and also to those in the area of home and game areas where addicts often stay and are injected and children are normally exposed. It has been shown that in countries where such consumption has been introduced, e.g. Number of needles reduced by 90%, e.g. Just that's really good news. But I'm not going to make use of my entire speech class. There's been a lot of things going on, and it looks like it's different. It's not a class line in this case, it's obvious. I'm at my party club, okay? paritaprevir Þórarinsson's children don't agree on this, and it's just fine. It is only the freedom we have, the senators, to have the opinion we feel. But these points I've mentioned, I've emphasized, i.e. watching that the project does not work against itself and that professionalism is put first, that the addicts are instructed, and that they try to open their eyes to the existence of help. In the past, it was just mentioned that many of the long - led addicts have lost faith and give up, and this is all they can live for. If they felt that someone might pat on their back and talk to them and guide them, this may be the scene so that they don't have another house to go through with it, so that I would stress that it was for consideration or that it was being followed. People are needed in this regard. Over the years, I have felt that prejudice has increased, not to the disease, but to the treatment options we have. I've been wondering what it's all about. It's a very difficult disease. There are so many young people getting hooked. Parents are often very impatient, normal, and want something to be done other than what is available. You are always trying to find ways to do something else or to improve your treatment. However, this is a serious illness and a difficult fight and at the treatment center is provided for family interviews where family members, who can often be very active, are informed about how the disease works and that the illness is really a factor of two people, the one born in the world, and the one who is ill with an addiction to alcohol or other drugs. This often helps people to understand that they are dealing with a very serious and difficult disease, and no one can stop eating unless they want to. You won't be obedient to anyone in these matters. You need the person to get out of this themselves. I'm not gonna have this any further, but like I said, I'm gonna give this bill a chance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u105	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I agree with him that there is no requirement for members of Congress to agree within categories, especially with regard to such matters. It is famous that when the many spoken drinking languages, i.e. The idea of camping, wearing alcohol here, is totally secondary to the work of the Generals, it's all in chaos, including committee work. It is quite a story to relate, though the consequences may be serious. I cut by one as a dog. A senator mentioned treatment issues. That's why they spoke. A senator of what you perceive as prejudiced against the available treatment options. I'd like to hear a little more from what we're talking about. That's what a senator does. I don't really agree with him much, but I don't see it that way. It seems to me that the idea of a treatment was rather narrow, the idea of it, not the treatment itself. The treatment itself works for some people, not all of them. However, it has been introduced to people that they are the only right way, see the 12 - step system used at the U.S.A. After personally fighting and conquering the drug Devil in the case of tobacco addiction, which can be very hard to deal with, as people know, who have had to fight it, different things are suitable for people of different ages. I think, for example. I didn't think the S.A. would have helped me anything. I found another way that works for me. Is it not reasonable, then, to be a fool of treatment decisions that vary from place to place in life, what they believe, and really what the root of the problem is? Because the root cause is also different, some people abuse drugs because of some underlying causes. Other people abuse tobacco just because they smoke so much cigarettes, and it makes you dependent on them. But it's not quite cut and cut, I think. I don't exactly have a question, and I don't necessarily disagree. Senator. I wanted to hear more about his mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u106	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the counter-sponsore. It may not have been right for me to use the word prejudice. Rather, I should say something like that. Many people are so worried that they let something like that out on their minds. We need to find something else and a better word. I've been watching these issues for 30 years, and I always feel like they're developing. I agree with the senator that we must have an open mind regarding the benefits of different people. The Senator mentioned smoke. There is no treatment for Vogi. It is, however, a natural drug, not a mind - changing substance. There is always a way to get results. We've heard from the news about the conflict in the United States. Now they have sheathed their swords and found some surface to work from. It's evolution. It's getting much more professional into this, but because the senator mentioned the 12-step system, it's the foundation of alcoholism and addiction, that's how I see it. That is the basic way to succeed. I don't know if I've answered this perfectly, but I say that an open mind and more professionality on this old foundation is what I would like to see forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u107	A respectable president. We're here on bill to correct a change in drug and drug laws, with subsequent changes, about consumption. It has to be said that, as it is, we are going through a wide range of situations in this discussion, and that is just the best. But in this discussion today, I've been wondering what we need in the discussion, what we forget to include in the discussion to explain why the matter is going to this place. The waste space has troubled some. But let's see that in the bill, which was submitted at the time, there's something since it came in, says, by permission of the President, and we're talking about consumption space in Denmark: By 2012, Denmark was authorized to run a lot of consumption space and is now five years later operating the five - year - old drinking space there, in Aargos, Vejle, Odinsvés, and two in Copenhagen, Skyen, and H17 both located in the Western District. Skyen offers space for both smoking material and injected into a vein. In 2017, about 4,800 arrived a day, with about 70% of them using cocaine. The range is open 24 hours a day, except for one hour closed to clean. Skyen is on financial resources from the state, with some 16◯20 individuals serving there. A nurse works on each watch but also works for social workers, sociologists, hospital staff, and staff who do not have expertise. Once a week, there's a doctor and a physical therapist. The advantage at the location of this consumption space is that it is where consumption is most. The disadvantage at the location is that consumption is the same as long-term homeless option, which can create domestic and household disturbance and close environment problems but also reduce the use of women on resources. And then what I quoted earlier today: ▪ After Skyen opened, there was a reduction in the number of cases where a needle device is found in the field by 90%. That's a big story. As a result, I would like to read, by permission of the president, word for word: In Copenhagen the user can replace its real name with a code name, and in fact, it applies to consumer space in most countries. [...] The contract also stipulates house rules made by society for consumption. They are based on experience from other countries and have been considered mainly in Denmark for the experience in Vancouver, Canada. How's that in Norway? In Norway an experimental consumption program began in 2004. Only heroin was permitted to be consumed by consumers, but recently the law was modified and allowed to consume other substances, both by syringe and by inhalation. What about other countries? By permission of the president, the above document states: ▪ The world's first transitional service was in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, 1981. The service was originally performed in the underworld, and it was not legal at the time. The first world - wide consumption period was found in Bern, Switzerland, in 1986. In eight cities, most of them live in the German part of the country. This shows that we are not picking up the bike. We're starting to eat, we're setting up a situation that has been tested in many countries, and we're giving up well. If we only take those who sent in the latest comments to the bill, we will find that the position of a prisoner is positive. The town council also has a positive report but less positive comments from the IOP, the Bindinism movement. But all other comments are positive. It also tells us that we've reached the point where we have to start doing something about these matters and thinking outside the box. The sick people who are being helped to get into the middle of the day are in a position today to be, as we have seen, in boggles, in dejected homes, as we have seen, on grounds of children's homes, or just wherever space is to be found, and so on, in homes that we often forget. I realize that the problem is much worse today than it was when I was a policeman some 40 years ago and yet it was bad at the time. Then, individuals were injecting drugs, doing so in a home where children were present, even adults; older citizens and others at home were basically prisoners of the drug addicts in this place. It also tells us that in this context we should make sure that waiting for treatment will be eliminated. Treatment should be completely self-condent and available to everyone because it has always been shown that as soon as we put up a waiting list, we save the money and throw it away because it comes back a lot. We also often forget in this context, when we are talking about addiction, that no one knows, whether he is an addict or not until he is tested. What may be the scariest part of all of this is that we know and know that people have become addicted just because they have needed strong painkillers because of action or because they have to wait for an operation. Of course, it's a terrible situation to realize that when you land, for example. on a waiting list and need to take a strong painkiller, may be available for 15◯16 tablets and tablets for side effects caused by strong pain relief tablets. It makes no sense, and it's completely disturbing that people are in such a position. No one realizes this, until perhaps a year later, when the person tries to quit this gigant eating, he may be an addict, and it's not easy. Hence, community responsibility is also great, and we do not know who become addicted. We know that some are worse off, that they fall faster into this addiction than others, and that we have so far seen it as criminals, and that they must be punished, judged, and imprisoned for their addictions. Happily, though, the approach is wrong and has done nothing but add to the problem. But the wait list is long, and somehow it's as if we can't get out of the way of putting ourselves in that weird box, that there's just one way we've tried for decades that's the right way. We always run into it. Some have noted that we will benefit from such rules as commandments and bans. But we know this from experience, e.g. When Prohibition was set, it doesn't work. I remember someday hearing the word "Unpredictable Iceland" in 2000. It was one of the most amazing things I've ever heard, whether it was an election. It was a wonderful promise and completely impossible for any man to fulfill it and try to achieve it. No matter what we do with a ban, it doesn't work. We will see how education has paid off. Let's see it in tobacco. There, education has done wonders to young people, and smoking has greatly diminished. Then came the woe. There, too, we need to take on and increase our teaching greatly because I believe that the education will pay for it. As I have pointed out, we are losing people who are injecting themselves in unacceptable circumstances. What may be the most tragic of all is that there are often people who are already treated, who are trying to get out of their addiction, and who may have been free of the drugs for some time, fall and inject themselves but in some way incomprehensible way, which may show how uncontrollably this addiction is, and they inject themselves with exactly the same strength of the same substance they were on when they stopped. It means just one thing in most cases, and it's death because the body does not come up with it after developing tolerance - it tells itself that the more you take the material, the more you need it, and luckily, it may be possible to deal with and save those people. It would be major if it were possible and also the environment, so they get clean needles and syringes and, as I say, health care professionals will be able to help. I'm not going to have this much further, but it's such a matter that I sign the commission and support the bill. I realize we have to change and try to find new ways. At the same time, we are also obliged to make sure that those who need help receive it right away do not have to wait a month or a year for that help. There could be individuals in the death room. We're close between here and there's a hurry to act. I really hope that this area and the consumption space that will be created there will make it easier for these people to seek help. It will be possible to grab those who came in and ask for help as soon as they want, but the situation will not be the one to be told to go on a waiting list for six months or even years. In most cases, it can be far too late. I really hope that we have the best way of doing this properly, since we're going to do this on another level, and we're going to tie them all the loose ends that it takes to make this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u108	V.E.G. President. I noticed in a talk a lot. A member of the council said that he felt that consumer living in foreign cities was a success. What has a what? A senator in that? I have information about everything else because I have been involved with the drug world for about 30 years. They're cities. In fact, a senator named it has become a subtype of drug distribution and drug abuse in all of Europe. So I have serious doubts about there's some grain of truth in this. I'm not saying there's no use space, I just think that claim is simply wrong. It's definitely not coming from the police authorities in these countries and not from the local authorities. I can absolutely say that. So I would like to know where that information came from. Granted, this has proved to be good for some consumers, but has this proved to be a success in fighting drugs? For illicit consumption or consumption of illegal substances? What has this improved in countries with its citizens?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this answer. Maybe I should have been clearer in my language. I shall quite admit that what I was talking about, that this has proved to be a good thing. The number of needles on the street has decreased by 90%. There, people get clean needles, and there's a lower risk of people being hurt by their consumption. That's what I was pointing at. But that this reduces the supply of drugs, and that's the main cause of drug traffic -- I have to say, it's too simple. We know that all you have to do is walk into a bar and then you can get drugs the way you want it. As young people say, it is easier to order and reach drugs than get pizza. So the supply is gigantian. We've been fighting the drug trade ever since I can remember. I remember the first time I heard the word "drugs." I know how we tried to fight this thing from the police, which was a completely hopeless example. No matter how much money we'd pump into it, we can't fight it, because there's an addiction, and this market seems to be a law. As long as we have an order, this is a subsystem, there are some making money, and then this market will remain. But the question is, How are we going to deal with addicts who are sick? And then there's this: How on earth are we supposed to stop this market? If I had a solution for that, it would've been brought long ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u110	V.E.G. President. Yes, I think it's very easy to get rid of drugs, those who intend to do so. I've always felt so special about freedom in a liquor store, because I see that the main supporters of this bill are against it, even the person who carries it is very opposed to some sort of freedom in a liquor store, but then, somehow, it's okay to make a special place. I'm going to give a talk about it later. But when we are considering opening up some type of consumption space, we need to examine the overall picture. Making a single amount of consumption does not solve any problem. Hv. paritaprevir Þórarinsson said earlier that it might add to the problem, I don't know. I think this bill is a sign that there's some kind of ideologies coming up, but I think it's a little over-thinked, and it needs to be discussed better. I have serious doubts about this bill, even though I have been very opposed to the punishment in these matters over my head, I have always considered it a health problem that will not be solved by punishment. That is not to say that it should be allowed anywhere, etc., no more than alcohol. But it's a good discussion. I feel that there has been a lack of it during the discussion of the overall problem. Do we solve anything with this? Are we even transmitting the wrong message on this, etc.? Of course, this is a violation of the rules because it's criminal, it's illegal, but then, all of a sudden, we take it out and say, "No, it's not criminal if you're in the middle of the middle of nowhere. It's very special, and I'm not sure that that's a good idea. I have doubts.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u111	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. Of course it's always a question. In many ways, I agree with him, and bans do not work. I have also often wondered about our conspiracies in the matter of alcohol abuse. I've often thought to myself, " Wait, we can go to this place and get some alcohol, but we can't do it the other way, which is exactly the same way but much simpler. I've never gotten these rules and don'ts, and I've always thought, " As soon as we have a rule and a rule of rules, I'm excited about something. But how we are going to solve the drug problem. I say for my part, we have to think only outside the box. This can bite us. We've been caught putting in some of the laws that bite us and somehow get our way. At any rate, we are moving our thinking out slightly beyond the framework in which we have been stuck and have hung on to our legislation. We say, "If you're using drugs, you're breaking the law, that's what you're supposed to punish. " We're just trying to put these issues into practice that you can take drugs without being punished and at the same time be in a slightly healthier environment, in fact, a much more healthy environment. We are trying to move us out of these solid footprints we have been in. We've been stuck in the same game for decades. We have to work this thing out somehow. I just think the first step is to solve it in some way. Let's start now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u112	A respectable president. We're discussing a very important subject today, a committee opinion with a change in bill to correct a change in drug and drug law that we're using as a matter of drug and drug consumption. This is a change in the law, an important and meaningful substance. Maybe it's a breakthrough change. Maybe that's what you can say. We are not discussing the sun - burning fields of human life. We are traveling through the center of human life, on the subjects of those whose feet are standing and not necessarily having many proverbs, and in the community, we have not been able to discuss in a reasonable way. This is not an undisputed subject that we are considering here today, and it may be a major force for some, as we have seen, in regard to moral matters. You will see here a number of deeply entrenched views, established standards of morality, community service, humanitarianness, law, rules, professionalism, etc. Really, it was sad and sad to hear a word at a time. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the Friðriksson of Thorin and Ásmundur, the way they discussed the subject and considered a man on the journey of zombies from a long time ago, from a lost attitude. This was surprising, since these fine whales. During the public talk, members of the Parliament spoke out publicly and spoke that Christians should be long - suffering toward one another. I ask, " What are we going to do, and how should we cultivate and make an advantage for individuals in this group? ' It's not a small group in Iceland. These may be some 700 of our brothers and sisters, who depend on injections because of drug abuse. Most of us are brothers. There's a lot less women than that. How should we live in the best interests of ourselves? How do you like it? Senators who spoke earlier about getting their knots fixed? Are these people to be taken and locked up? Should we send it outside the city line or to the galley? How should we deal with the situation? I feel that with this bill, with changes, we are rising up as enlightened subjects, an enlightened nation, by dealing with the problems we have faced, and by which we have passed without doing so much, without reacting. We know the problem, but we have not responded. The bill is an effort toward change, and it is a cause of joy. They take root in the case of a disease, not a crime sign. Hv. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen introduced a criminal threat, and there we may be approaching with this little step toward the mountains with greater reasonableness and more rationality on the issues of this group. I'm glad the police and the health and social authorities come together. Although they cannot do so, they are confident that they will take this matter together and try to correct it. There is no point in promoting drug abuse. That's reverse. We believe that every human is born free. He is bored for some reason, events happen to people, and they get bored in ways that might least of all they wanted to be on their own. But life is like this. It's not just simple. We look forward to a brighter time when this group of people, our fellow citizens, is at stake. The bill we're talking about now, and we heard committee opinion. The welfare committee has done well here today, such as being moved before not reaching all the way to this level, and we hope that it will reach all the way right now. It has been considered to be a high level of coverage on the welfare committee and to change, not major, but there are a number of factors and these changes have all been, I think, of the good to explain the picture, e.g. For those visiting consumption space, a certain amount of material may be included, i.e. single dose. It is also accepted that no one enjoys a ministry that is under 18 years of age, where there are no newborns or young people who are not eating. There's no business there. However, it is mentioned by some as one drug distribution center. I think that's a shocking statement, but it may have evolved in some other way. But it's not put up here. As mentioned earlier, the bill goes on to say that the surgeon's office will be authorized in consultation with rural society to open and operate consumption space. They will create a secure environment and will be performed under the supervision of healthcare professionals in which good hygiene, safety, and infection protection are maintained. The report on the bill also shows that the situation of the individual is being reviewed, that health care, mental health care, and social services are available, and that there are priorities for those who need and choose it. We respect this weekend. These are legal individuals and all equal resources, and they must be determined, and each one has his own destiny in this regard. It has also been observed that consumption resources support the ideologies of decomposition. It involves seeking to reduce health, social and economic consequences of legal and illicit drug use without necessarily reducing the use of narcotics. Of course, all of us have the dream that it is possible to reduce the addiction that has followed us mankind for aeons of time in one form or another, and we go for a little bit. It should be emphasized that these destructive measures and measures we are talking about here by consumption are not only useful to those involved. There are also families behind these individuals. The presence of the community is affected by this and society is affected by it all. The fundamental part of the ideologies is also that in these measures there is recognition that a large number of people around the world continue to use addictive drugs despite all efforts for prophylaxis, education, and prevention work to prevent the onset of drug abuse or continued use of the substances. It has been noted that there are a wide range of experience with consumers. There are waste spaces worldwide and some over 90 registered as such. Towns, the city authorities, have taken those measures only to account well because there has been a reason, the situation in the cities has become very difficult to deal with in these individuals. This has been acknowledged, and they have opened their eyes to the facts. What is this supposed to mean? What can result? It is not necessarily a matter of quitting the use of drugs. That, however, is an obvious benefit in many respects. There are often co-morbidities; HIV infection, hepatitis, etc. and nutrition disorders, dehydration, dose regimens and actual deaths. Negotiation and contacting trained professionals can make a difference. The talks of those who have mentioned that we have discussed these points for some time. We know all the initiatives of the Red Cross that Mrs. Ragnhök is involved in demeaning projects in the capital area and in Akureyri. These activities have proved their worth and have been accepted. We did not want to be without them, and this is in the area that encourages us to strengthen them further. But we are not necessarily, nor are we at all at the finish line. I mentioned that it was preferable to see more and more steps in order to view this as a health problem rather than to take care of these matters in the form of the judicial system. This has been pointed out at the council and has been proposed as a synonym for criminal abuse. The Ministry of Health has also discussed this. Of course, we look ahead to see that the step we take with this law will be a step in that direction. There are other interesting subjects on the bill. The rural community is expected to operate this service. We will be assured that our rural communities will be able to operate financially on this. The Ministry has suggested 50 million. K. to initiate the first compartment, but more is needed. This needs to ensure that their work is performed on a whole - souled basis. A respectable president. I'm not going to have it all any further. We can see that people are thinking more about this subject of individuals who face various reasons in difficult situations and on the rocky path of consumption, primarily as health problems. We do it with alcohol. It hasn't always been. Not many decades have passed since the attitude toward alcohol consumption was very different from that of today. Norwegians are very determined to take a course of crime in this regard. I want it at the end to the top. Ministers show boldness and vision by presenting this bill, which I believe in some respects is a landmark bill. It's a turning point of view. We are now walking the path of reason, in my opinion, and of practicality. We no longer place our binoculars in front of the blind eye. I think it's reflected in the bill. We try to see the reality, reality, existence, life, and the way we live our lives. This is a common problem, and we need to take action and do what we can to make a better living for this group of people who have few proverbs, have faced suspicion, lack of understanding, and even zeal among many and including. in our man - made systems, both social and health field.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u113	A respectable president. We will discuss a bill that is a major milestone. When this bill was presented for the last assembly, I mentioned only in my earlier discussion, and I am in a similar position today. I find this really hard and sad. I was with the U.S. Vimut Free Iceland and I think the big thing is prevention. Of course, it would be best if this community could be free of drugs, but unfortunately, we are here in 2020, and the country is not now drug free and there is no evidence that it is about to happen. I don't think this bill really has anything to do with it. I don't think it's going to increase or reduce the number of drug addicts. On the other hand, this is a most important service, as I see it, to those who are being led to addiction. I know why. The welfare committee only altered the wording when it comes to it, but mine, perhaps in some way limited, knowledge of this category is so that those who take drugs in the vein are usually those who are the longest - leading. Had loved ones been led through this struggle, I experience it so that among those who take drugs, there is considerable class distinctions, or not class distinctions, but prejudices. I don't think any test is smoking grass or pot or taking cocaine, and I'm gonna give myself an injection later. I don't think and from my experience and conversations with people who've been fighting addiction, it was very difficult to admit at some point that it was so far too bad in their consumption to decide to give yourself an injection, and they generally didn't consider anything cool in that world. That's why I think it's very good and important, I'm actually quite sure of it, but I find it difficult. I also understand people who have been here describing their views and who find it hard to take this step, but I am absolutely certain that this has nothing to do with whether we can get rid of drugs or whether we can get a lot of drugs. On the other hand, it is demeaning, and it is important for those who are in a bad state to have this service there, so I support this matter. I just want to take the discussion about who's responsible for this, because to me it's health. Health matters are under the government and the health minister. Here it is that the government can contribute funds, and rural communities can use this money to run this service. I don't want to get involved, because I think it's important to get through, and I heard from a layman that it's certainly been discussed and reviewed by the committee. But my experience and my opinion of dealing with rural society is that we are far too often rubbing in some way the role of country members. It is a source of food and lead, spending all too much time and money from taxpayers to work on it. I can name, for example, a nursing home, which is obviously a health service and the state's supposed to represent, but the local communities have fought with the interests of their inhabitants for the guidance of a nursing home in their communities, have taken over the business with some agreement with the State, and so the money has failed, and now these sides are in constant conflict. I have to admit that I'm very afraid that things like this can end up in a similar place, so in general, I want to say that I think we need to clean up in this system so that it is perfectly clear what the state is responsible for and what rural society is responsible for. We should try not to mix it together in order not to further increase the disagreement that exists regularly between the State and the local community. This was primarily what I wanted to say. I can say for sure that I support this case, but I still find it difficult. I feel that this is a surrender to some society that I would have liked to see, and I know that a lot of people share that vision with me. Unfortunately, I think I just have to accept that it's unrealistic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u114	A respectable president. There are a lot of people who would like to live in a drug-free society, at least think they want it. I find, however, interesting - I hope that I am not beating a dead horse, as it is said - that alcohol always seems to be the exception when discussing drugs and the like. There is good reason for this, and it is that alcohol is legal, alcohol is socially accepted. But alcohol is a drug. When people say unexploited Iceland, I feel like they have to tell them if they want to ban alcohol, which means they include if the way is to get a drug-free Iceland out there by ban. The other way is to try to make society free of charge. I myself don't think it's practical, not possible. I think people are the kind of people they want to take drugs. There are very few communities that I know where no drug use is, even in communities where it is severe, even where all drug abuse is severely punished. It's just something that goes with the person in the same way that people believe all sorts of fried things, no matter what other people think. Human beings sing and dance, though there is no obvious purpose in it, no pragmatic purpose. We just don't have the kind of animal life that we always go to work, and we just do what is upbuilding to our community every time, for life is much better than that. I think it's important to keep this in mind because, as it shows in this bill, and it's a rather good sign, it's a mixed drug. It differs in nature and has varying degrees of influence. In English or otherwise, alcohol is usually expressed on the other hand and on the other hand. The rest is much more varied than that. This should be rather obvious. Now I've held this fistula more than once, and more than twice in this punk, respectable President, and that's not a reason to repeat it again. But I come up because there are others out there. Councilmen take to heart the concern that this matter is some sort of misstep has given rise to various reasons. I have to make an advance note that I'm not quite sure I understand the language well enough to be able to say it again fairly. I have to describe him as I understand him, and that can be unfair. I'll try to be reasonable if possible. Some worry that by setting up consumers like those mentioned in the bill, consumption may increase. Then there would be some kind of nucleus where people could come in and know that they had drugs, they would be drug addicts, and then they'd probably have some connections, something like that. It came, for example. ... ina matterwhat. 3.m. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, and the voice. 4th, including Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, Ásmundur the son of Friðriksson earlier. That's why to say, first of all, I don't think this is a real danger. I think that more drug use could be measured in that particular area, I think it's really in nature. But in general, we don't see drug abuse in society. It must be obvious that the overwhelming majority of the drug abuse in society is completely invisible to us, especially the consumption that calls for no help from the police or health authorities. Yes, a respectable president, the consumption is difficult to believe for some except, of course, if it is alcohol. Then, all of a sudden, it's no big deal for some amazing reason. I'd also like to say that even if it's possible to prove that this process would increase consumption, it must not be the only item we're considering. It is precisely the mistake of the so - called drug war to look at the amount of material being consumed and even, in an even more stupid process, the amount of material being confiscated by the police. There's really a strategy, especially in the United States, which has results on how much drugs are confiscated, which is a messed-up approach. The larger the problem, the more it usually becomes, and as a result, there is a greater success. The point is that the consumption itself should be, not what we are trying to stop, but the negative consequences of it, and of course there is a correlation. Obviously. The greater the consumption in the community in general, the greater the likelihood that problems will arise. These are the problems that should move us to action, not self - consumption. If we could invent drugs, even some dangerous, life - threatening, horrible drug like alcohol, but could cut off any negative consequences of it, we should take it as a victory, we should celebrate it. But I tell myself that such a drug would be judged rather quickly. It's an underlying tone of conversation in the community, and I think it's only a little less here at the council these days, in the last few years, than at the coffee tables or the food tables or whatever, that people are against the consumption, against the high. That's the wrong approach. A respectable president. It is good and blessed to be personally convinced that people should not use drugs for some spiritual reason, that the human mind is in some way holy, that it should not be corrupted, or something similar. I understand that, I don't quite agree, but I understand. Then it is good and blessed that people make that decision for themselves. It is not good and blessed that people make such decisions for other people. This is exactly the same story as when it comes to viewpoints, in terms of images people want to watch, which religion they choose to favor. The fact that the person is free inevitably means that she is free to do things that other people would make up with, would not choose in their own lives, and would not choose in the lives of their immediate relatives. I can reveal that I would not appreciate it if my closest friends suddenly began to be part of some sect or to adopt a religion that I considered harmful. I don't like it, but that doesn't mean I'd forbid it. I wouldn't appreciate it if my closest friends and family never moved and did anything that's not good and that's good, but I can't forbid them. I don't want to forbid them. It's not against them to do that. That's not the right way, Mr. Honorable President. Even if such problems begin to increase a little in the community, I would not want to forbid it. I mention this, a respectable president, because the bill includes making an exception to the policy of the people in Iceland and the so - called Western world in general, which is banning this. It is in itself and by nature harmful. Even if they reach other goals, people, such as reducing drug abuse, are harmed. This will be achieved if the prohibition works by damaging people's interests enough to avoid drugs. It's the brain scan, it's more like if we were to poison the drugs, make them worse. How would that sound, a respectable president? We have some horrible, life-threatening drugs like alcohol and we're going to do it even more poisonous. Then people would probably drink less. Isn't it? People must see what a crazy idea they're having. But that, in effect, is the very idea that is the basis of the approach in the so - called Western world that is making it bad enough for people to use drugs so that they do not use drugs. The problem is this, most respected president of the United States, drugs. The drug is not merely a desire to do something and do it. If so, it would not be defined as a disease of any kind. The drug is a disease that causes people to do things they should know to do. If it doesn't work out on someone who's an addiction that makes her lose her job, losing her friends, and losing her family member, losing her everything, will it stop her from threatening her to pay her a money ticket or a prison sentence? A respectable president. I'm not saying this to try to create some sense of compassion. I'm pointing out that this isn't logical. It doesn't make sense. Still, this is the foundation of a policy here as another, no matter what anyone says. And then we're supposed to change that direction and stop punishing drug addicts altogether, we're not supposed to punish them in any way. I'm sure it's just as likely as not poisoning alcohol. A more radical idea isn't. After discussing why. Similarly, members of the council here would do well to mention the implementation of the bill, which includes granting local authorities authority to create consumers. It's important. Here it was spoken as if laws should somehow define where these areas would be, how large they would be, and so on. In fact, the bill assumes that such decisions and discussions are taking place in areas where information is present, obviously with the rural communities themselves. There is nothing that forces the rural communities, in my view, to prepare for this operation. I'll be too, because of what I'm doing. 3.m. In my opinion, the town Birgir Þórarinsson, mentioned a case that may seem to be inexplicable to this matter, which is, in fact, related to the subject. He wanted the people's opinion of this fundamental change. I couldn't hear any other reasoning than the fact that it was some fundamental change. I'm afraid that's not true. Senator, this is a fundamental change, completely wrong. This is a change that would be unnecessary and completely out of context except because it is not a fundamental change. If we were making a fundamental change, such a bill would not be possible because it would be no exception to provide from existing legislation to punish those who abuse drugs. Thus, no matter what noises or slanders or consumers do, the legislation is well - aware. It is popular for some political parties to call it, apparently in some sort of sort, after the arrival of the people or the people or their voters, to make decisions that they feel are of great concern to them. 3.m. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! Clearly, this decision seems to be. All such talk must be based on the fundamental mental attitude of self - determination. It is not secondary when we speak of democracy or freedom. The self - determination right is the key, in both of this matter, i.e. the right of individuals to carry their bodies, and their souls as they please; and also the right of the people, the voters, and the inhabitants, to rule over their own matters. It's strange to address one of these cases and place them as something to evaluate in a national bill or in a term that no one has called after, knowing that, not any man but whiskers. A senator standing here; I don't know any better, maybe I'm wrong. It may be 10 people, perhaps 500, but not the thousands that would have to be in order to meet the requirements so far that the nation's binding votes can be pressed on a certain subject. I just have to mention this because I think it matters too in this context that we're talking about a case that concerns the individual's rights to be at peace with their disease. And even if people did not have their illness, they should certainly have that right. This may now be viewed as an extreme form of freedom from this practice. A senator in the ranks of the most widely referred to freedom in elections. But it must be obvious that the individual's freedom cannot rest on the mind of more part. It's not democracy, a respectable president. For example, in the bill of the Government to a new constitution, there are exceptions to what can be paid exactly because it is so often for politicians to want to do what they want. They want to choose what goes on national terms, and they want to put out a basic prince of the Republic, a question that should not be asked as if people should have freedom of expression, whether to have fair rights, whether to have equal rights for law. These are the basics of democracy, just as national law. I don't think it's irresponsible to throw up a case like this in the hope that someone will take the bait and start fighting more for some way the trial is incorrigibly or incompetent, just because of shock. A senator is in a physical sense disagreeing with the bill. That's the wrong approach, a respectable president, and I think she's irresponsible, I always think she's irresponsible. I think the idea of this debate is to try to oust voters'eyes that the politicians and those who call for greater democracy do so only according to their own concerns in the matters they please themselves. That's wrong, a respectable president, and that is fundamentally wrong. It should be clear how the movement of a national agreement or a national agreement is being carried out. There should be a clear limit to it so that politicians do not abuse that authority and call it democracy. For example, there are plenty of examples of this, and they should be avoided. I had to mention this, a respectable president, though I feel that this is going outside the material because of the situation. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's daughters went to these psalms, and I felt the need to answer them. I don't feel that this treatment is somehow irreverent. It's not, and it's very important that you're quite clear why you're not. As it may be clear, I support this case. I think it's a good thing. I'll support it with them in advance that I'm sorry I needed this. Some of them may be a drug-free Iceland, but it's not my utopia. I have a lot more variety than that. I wish that it was just undisputed and not dependent on certain areas of life that people would get all the law enforcement and medical help they needed, regardless of whether they were on drugs or not. I'm just sure it is. I think there should be an Eastern field, everywhere, and I don't think so at all. But we live in this environment and this course with all its flaws, and this is a key step toward being able to control the number of people who become addicted and help them on the basis of human beings and common sense. Knows one thing: Sometimes these two things go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-13-103.u115	Mr. President. At the end of the discussion, I want to thank the members of the council who have participated in it. It has been lively and many views have been expressed, and in itself it does not have to be surprising that at least members of the Parliament, Some council members, depending on which side they are grieving about the matter. It's not unexpected in itself, because it's not a group of political issues, it's health-politic. This is a matter that has a profound impact on our emotions and many more. But I think it's right, Mr. President, to thank you. Congress members are very excited for this discussion, and they look forward to the vote.
