ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u1	The prime committee, in agreement with the heads of Congress, decided at a meeting earlier today that the work plan of Thursday, June 4. will be called a day, on which day a meeting would be held according to a schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u2	There have been letters from foreign and development co-worker at a request every time to provide written answers to panel requests. 710, on the release of international contracts, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson, and on a threshing floor. 1418, about the cost of the Ministry to written answers to queries, from Bruntur the son of Níelsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u3	To answer these questions, Prime Minister, marine and agricultural minister, health minister, travel, industrial and innovation, and Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u4	President. Icelanders, and indeed most of the world's population, are better able to cover the level of emergency that has ruled over the last few months for Covid-19. However, economic uncertainty is still high and must be guided by decisions that are far superior. It's time to have a democratic open conversation with the nation about the future policy Iceland is about to take. Unfortunately, the government has shown no interest in this kind of conversation so far, but it adds action to a closed company of ministers and stakeholders. These measures, however, provide the basis for the nation's economic structure. Thus, it is both necessary to handle them properly and to ensure widespread peace of mind regarding the measures in society. What future would we create, Mr. President, if we took the money being pumped into maintaining the current possession of companies through the reporting process if we put it to work to build up a environmental knowledge and innovation field? We can increase the money we have in education and give students more to study. Thus we could create a community with a variety of high - paying roads that would have far more persistence when it comes to tragedy. Instead, the policy seems to be, if there's any policy, to put the past in a house at the expense of the public and to give the current owners the advantage over others if it were to reach the previous level of tourism. And all of this without the considerable protection for the rights of paymen. Instead of empowering the public, the government establishes the authority of an enterprise over the survival of the public. This approach has certainly been the methodology of the Independence Party for decades, but many Icelanders, including the one listed here, thought that the left - green prime minister might put people ahead of capital. President. As far as I can see, the past is the plan and the author of the plan is the Independence Party, or what, the highest. Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u5	Mr. President. Icelanders have been successful in fighting the crown virus. We have done so by making decisions day by setting health priorities and by saving lives in our struggle with the pandemic. Today, however, we also see the solutions we must find to cope with the economic hardships that will inevitably occur following the epidemic, with all the nations facing, in various ways. What the government has done is that it has undergone emergency operations to support Icelandic employment and Icelandic employees because in this case the interests of these people are somehow spent together. I can truthfully say that after having had a huge number of conversations with both the employees and the professional drivers through these difficulties, it is important that professional employment is guaranteed. We have even that. did so with the part - time ministry, but we also saw that it alone would not work. Thus, at the General Parliament was approved for a week's pay bill at a notice interval, where there is still a requirement to maintain employment relations with the people of pay and actually go further to meet Iceland's Public Association in Congress. There we are working on emergency operations and, at the same time, we are investing in an increasing number in 2020 in both of what we can call the traditional investments that are usually ready to attack, such as transport, which I have heard the representatives of all classes require increased initiatives in, so it is good to make use of this opportunity, but also with increased investments in innovation, basic research, energy exchange, and creative branches. In the weeks that followed, I have planned to make a meeting in the extended national economy, where traditional meetings represent professional, rural, and state. [[The president calls.]] There I will also present the heads of all classes at the General Assembly, for it is the very purpose of discussing future plans for our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u6	President. Words without effect are like a heart that is without life. It is heartbreaking to see the movement and inactivity of the environmental, welfare, and innovations; to watch these disappear like dew to the sun of the Neoliberism of this government. Yet, it is not as tragic as the speech of those who claim it is not. While the independence party is allowed to rule, beautiful talks on equality and welfare are irrelevant. In the present government, it means confusion, the grip on ancient organization, and there is no vision of the future. I haven't seen her yet. There's no particular question here, Mr President, and the highest. As she wishes, the prime minister does not have to answer this question. There is only a limited amount of information that can be offered without action.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u7	Mr. President. Yes, there is only so much to offer. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator should wonder when she speaks of a lifeless heart, such as in some very dramatic music text, but does not mention real examples, such as the fact that no government has done more in climate affairs than this government, that huge steps have been taken in the equality of this government, that changes have been made in the tax system to increase the equation in the time of this government, that the birthorof has been extended to the time of this government, that we are entering a climate of this government, this government. You see, these are the works that matter rather than the verbs that I feel do not belong even in the council's symposium. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u8	Mr. President. In the last few decades, a large convergence has taken place in the fishing waters. Ten of the largest types are more than half of the quatans, and 20 the largest are over 70% of the quathane. Added to that is the possession of these developers in other preparations. Over 20 years ago, legislation was specifically adopted to counteract the conglomeration of the amendment that was considered harmful, especially because of the importance of fishing for Icelandic national farming. Too strong the authority of a few people over the fishing resource meant more power to them in society than healthy would be, and their position was too strong against governments. Conspiracy prevented competition and inhibited needed renewal. In that case, compression could directly work against the national economy, especially if the person did not have the highest value in creating the resource, an entry between the habitats was found to damage rural areas, and a transfer between rural groups could lead to lower productions of halos. The law has not achieved its purpose. As they have been interpreted, one party may possess a 12% quathane, and thus another 49% share in all the other administrations of 88% to the remainder. Thus, one individual can share in over half of the quatans each year assigned. Clearly, that interpretation of the law promotes compression and is contrary to the spirit of the law. V.E.G. Secretary of the sea has agreed on a project on fishing control to address the financial regulations of linked parties in the fish management law. It's the highest. As some have suggested, don't a marine economist agree that a 49% share also needs to be dropped to 25%? That those having so much share in another modeling enterprise are considered to be linked to members when the 12% limit is measured?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u9	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. She kills here on a subject that has been very much in the discussion, and she talks a lot about it for years. We are now attempting to approach at least part of the subject as a subject. A senator here refers to a project administration designed to shape proposals for reexamination on the basis of a report by the State Review Board. I know why. A senator knows that job well. Yes, the compression has been tremendously rapid and intense in recent decades, especially in two. We see it happening now more in the hook-up line. There are some underlying aspects of society that cause this compression to take place. I think that the basic economy that runs after the compression, the change, is the requirement that this industry be run profitfully, it gives it to the community that we all want to see. At the very least, this discussion was taken when it was brought into law at the time, the peak based on which it is best known as 12% of total resources. It was then said that the requirement for this article to be made, that is a requirement for profit, and that the article must be squeezed in some way. I'm going to respond to a question. A senator will see if I'm ready to move the percentage from 49% down to 25%. I think that discussion needs a lot more and more research than is available here and now. [[The president calls.]] I'm at that place, not to have any conflicting views about it. There is some reason why this has been done in this way and has remained in the way that it really is.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u10	Mr. President. I can't quite figure out what's going on. Minister, but I prefer to interpret the answer to the opinion that the project management of fishing has full authority also to discuss this 49% number and provide convincing suggestions on how to change if it seems so. Synchronization results in a poor structure, an increased system-based risk, and may result in monoconversion. The large rural areas here are, in fact, jointly fired. There are some examples in the U.S.A. Minister, they have a consultation on fishing, processing, and selling crops. Tells you the highest. Don't Ministers have the need to counteract such compression, and that big companies have become so great that their power and their social impact can be harmful, that their impact on political and political decisions can work against public interests?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u11	A respectable president. I don't think there may have to be some sort of size limit in companies so that their managers or companies themselves can work against national interests. I don't think there's anything common, because a large company can necessarily be more dangerous to national interests than relatively small, powerful units. I don't think there's a mark between size and dangerous activities. It's just my conviction. And already it is. A senator asks if the task management is not authorized to discuss all creations, I arranged for a letter for the project administration that I'm not completely in the head, I know why. A senator knows better than I do, but the project manager was supposed to work on all the comments specified in the Kingdom Review Report. That's what's in charge of the project. The Testimony Letter was written on that basis. That's my answer to ask why. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u12	Mr. President. I'm gonna take the highest. The prime minister of the word has done business in equality. In March. I received answers from the Ministry of Presidency to ask how often agencies have violated equality laws in public employment since the legal execution of the law in 2009. The answer was 25 cases in which women were violated 18 times, seven times in males. On that occasion, the highest would come. Prime Minister that this is just 25 fragments, and I wholeheartedly agree. News has now been received that Minister of Education Alfreðsdóttir Alfredur's daughter violated equality by the counseling of Páll Magnússon as the Ministry of Education, which was published in less than a year. This is the conclusion of the judicial committee of Equal Opportunities, and the argument is striking. It is simply in the opinion of the panel that there is a serious lack of material support for the Ministry of Education for the Council. A minister would have underestimated the Hafdís Ólafsdóttir Helgisdóttir, the defendant, the candidate, compared to Páll regarding education. A minister would have underestimated Helgue's Hafdís Helga in experience with the government. The Minister of Education would have underestimated Helga's Hafdís of Leadership. The Minister of Education would have underestimated Hafdís Helga's ability to express himself in writing. Mr. President. It was all an undisputed condition in the advertisement. I'm asking, "How's the big one?" Prime Minister, the highest. Minister of Equal Opportunities, to react? It is difficult, in view of the logic of the committee, to conclude that this is a violation of intent. When logical support is read, we can see it. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Don't you need anything other than a review and some kind of polite recommendation to those here on the job of applying the law? Has the highest. Isn't there something else in the armory to prevent such an offense?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u13	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I'd like to inform you of the highest. The Minister of Education informed the government this morning about this decision and intends to bring it up at the next government meeting. According to the above, it was so in this particular case that a qualified committee considered four individuals to be the most qualified, and a member of the four most qualified committees. Of course, this calls for the ultimate. A minister of education would consider the case and whether it was right in his own eyes. With regard to the Justice Committee of Equal Opportunities, which is independent of the ruling committee, I said that right here, in response to why. Of course, a member of the council said that there were 25 fragments of 25 fragments too much. The important thing to look at in the overall environment of equality and equality is: What do the Courts of Equal Opportunities measure? What effect does such decisions have on the government system? For example, are we using them to provide guidance within the system of government? Can we do better? That's one of the things we need to discuss specifically in connection with the overall reexamination of equality laws that I intend to contribute to the coming autumn Council. Then, in particular, we are considering this arrangement and whether there is some way that we can better guarantee more guidance in the political system when it comes to equality. Of course, this is very important, and we have seen some offenses in those years. A senator here mentioned, from 2008, and I believe we can do better in reducing these fractions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u14	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I would also like to discuss that there have been a considerable number of information laws in the past and the highest. Prime Minister knows this. Hafdís's Helga requested support for the recruitment in November and all the data, but it had to be repeated three times. She was denied this evidence based on the fact that it was the personal interest of others more than it was. Then we'll see that this must be something that needs to be considered. It's, I'm sorry, completely crazy. You wonder what interests are involved, what private interests are being cared for by this approach. This example is simply one of the worse we have seen, and it cannot be viewed as different from a government dropout. I know this is taking place over a long period of time. It's not just this government here, but this is no longer the way it works. Then there is what a minister asks of him what decisions he will make. They give it to the offender, and they come from the taxpayers' pockets. Nothing else will happen. I'd like to close here by asking the highest. Prime Minister, who has shown his mind on equality, including those of the United States. by taking this party to heart: What has it done for the equality? [[The president calls.]] What has the government of the left green have paid in equal terms when we get these things on the table repeatedly and we all agree that it doesn't work? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u15	Mr. President. Of course, there are many things that we have been doing on equality, because of the factors involved. A senator asks, and this minute is not enough for me to review all the things being done. Today, there is a discussion about a preemptive program against sexual violence and sexual abuse and harassment. It's a huge case we've been working on, and we're expecting legal adjustments at the next assembly to form in the case of sexual immunity. Violence has been in the foreword of the introduction of what was done in the past government in terms of equally pay-offs. It's a huge group of paintings, since we're getting results on different fronts. But that's what I want to say to what. A senator in charge of the Commission's decision of equal rights - and I'll take it back to the highest level. Of course, a minister of education needs to explain her views on this matter, and she will no doubt be here to answer later to to swerve it - that I think in the big picture, when we take the decision that has fallen on the part of the Board of Equal Opportunities, it was important that we consider how we can do better to advise the administration to prevent wrongdoing. Like what? A senator correctly points out that benefits from a taxpayer's pocket are being decided on the basis of a court order. However, we need to take much more active work to prevent offenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u16	A respectable president. Finally, when we're seeing out of the Covid Nebula, I ask myself, " What is our health system on the road? ' State and rural status in Iceland's Medical Insurance on Nurse Home management because of the high cost of operating. Western islands, Akureyri, Hornfjordur, all report this because tens of millions of dollars were calculated wrong. Southnesja's clinic, where the population has increased from 16,000 to 28,000 since 2002 - where is the emergency and accident receptors there? Yeah, it's located in a room that thinks to be good, or maybe pretty lame, as a rainy closet. There's the office. This is where the medicine storage is. There's the coffee room, all of a sudden, same little room. But does this work for our health - care system? No, our children, e.g. a child with a breach in his mouth is inside the system, but because of some dramatic changes in regulations available to Iceland's health insurance and Minister, the dam has been created that they need to be fed at the University of Iceland's dental school, which cannot be obtained. People come from abroad with their baby to take it and get it fixed, it's already inside the system. These people are stopping, they have to stand for 100,000, 200,000 bucks. Pay. It's supposed to be a self-centered thing. How is it that we are repeatedly in this chair to point out that children with breaches in their eyes do not get a service? That's a minimum catch, isn't it? Health Minister, that these children get the services they deserve?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u17	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for quite an extensive question that even turned. to run the nursing home and the situation to rural communities, which were involved in the situation at the Southnesian Institute of Health and then to the national management of children born with a gap in the interest of reimbursement from Iceland's Medical Insurance. I'm gonna start that part and see if there's any time left to finish the rest. The reason children with a cut in their teeth or a cleft palate have not been examined at the dental department are limitations at meetings due to a disease called Covid-19, which has caused various cases to have been laid down. According to information from Iceland's Medical Insurance, that's what it's all about. A senator refers to the process and health insurance will do everything in their power to speed up its payment. Hv. A member of the U.S. National Institute of Health asked specifically about the situation in the matter of housing. This was only discussed in the news yesterday. In fact, it was in the press that there have been 200 million now to meet the biggest problem there is in the government's specific implementation program for Covid-19. Hv. A senator then asks about the nursing homes and the business there. I must say, I have high expectations for the analysis that was agreed to attack, which was a special account of the last contract on nursing homes. In this account, they agreed on the importance of a thorough analysis of the actual cost of nursing management, and on which basis, I believe that the conversation could be much more targeted.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u18	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers' answers, and I sincerely hope that the basic cost of nursing homes will be established and quickly put in place. Second, I want to point out: Yes, we have to watch that, for example. in Southnes, there is an operating room that has been stored for many years. At the same time, minimal waiting for standard orthopaedic surgery is up to six months and will be greatly prolonged when summer vacations fail. Therefore, the appearance of waiting for standard orthopaedic surgery is intended to take 9◯12 months at the same time when individuals cannot use their right to go abroad for surgery. Then I ask, What will the minister do in this regard? Does it have a solution to the enormous problems facing those who wait and hope to get into surgery, joint replacements?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u19	A respectable president. Regarding the waiting list following replacement operations, as noted here and natural in government action of Covid-19, the action called elective action was delayed, if I recall correctly, eight weeks of time and not just for hospitals and public authorities, but the optional procedures were also delayed in the living room doctors and in the living rooms. I am waiting now to receive information from the surgeon general's office on the waiting period after the procedure under the waiting list and have not been carried out for the Covid pandemic, and I have also requested information from the medical institutions on how they will predict the next step in starting the operation again. That's what we need to see. I also have a lot of expectations that we are now putting up an environment, both software and other, where we can have central information about all the waiting list operations and any temporary replacement operations, so we can see it in one place, and the public can see it in one place where it's at the same time. [[The president calls.]] This case has been in my top priority for a long time. The situation has been unacceptable and extremely complicated to the public and to those who enjoy the ministry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u20	A respectable president. On this occasion, I want a direct inquiry to the highest level. Tour, industrial and innovation minister on the use of wind power. The Agency has now proposed 43 initiatives to consider the work of project management on a Framework Programme. 34 of them are dealing with wind, i.e. Windyards that are spreading wide and wide throughout the country I directed a similar request to the highest level. Environment Minister last week. In his answers, I noticed that the minister said, with the permission of the president: It is the evaluation of the Environment and Resource Ministry and the Employment and Development Ministry that the issues of wind energy are under a framework of the strategy, i.e. anything that's over 10 MW A report by the traveling, industrial, and innovation minister on the new methods of energy recovery provided by the Minister for 149th legislature in November 2018, says: in Section 4, 4.4, which discuss laws on the protection and energy efficiency program, a so-called frame plan, with the permission of a president: ▪ The law covers land areas where energy resources are found. Such sources of energy, other than falling water and earth temperature, could be coal and more, as such. 5th law 1st. a mine-shaped, And it continues in an quotations report: However, the atmosphere falls on the value of what is called resmunes, and no one is considered to have the exclusive rights. Winds were no doubt counted to such value. The range of laws on protection and energy efficiency do not agree to the wind or sea power as required by the law. And still in the industrial minister's report, with permission of the President: A 'Ramma plan would only take them to land areas where fallwater and/or earth - water systems are found in specific areas, not wind plants.' That's why I'm asking the highest. Industrial Minister, taking into account strong text in the report of the Industrial Minister from November 2018: Shared Minister and his Ministry with the opinion established by environmental Ministers last week, i.e. that using wind power fell under a frame plan, or did the Environment Minister misdirect the position of the minister and the Ministry of Industrial Affairs?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u21	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. First, in answer to the question clearly, the Ministry assessment and my personal evaluations are also true to say that the Ministry did not claim that the issue of wind energy is under a framework, but the Ministry's position is, in effect, ambiguity has to be taken out of all doubt as to whether there are more than 10 MWs at home in a strategy or not. In the opinion of the Industrial Commission of March 29, 2011, long before my time, it is said under the permission of a president: A review of the writer showed that the bill was too narrow. The committee agrees with this view.◯ Then they review it, and they say here clearly: Hence, the network suggests a change in the name of the bill and the greater range of values, for otherwise the bill is marked by activation in falling waters or in high - temperature areas. So if there is a interpretation of the wishes of the Committee, at least During that time, the wording would have to have been changed because it would take only the heat and the power of water - hence, the need to explain it clearly. What I find important about this is, of course, that it doesn't work out, not in this group, rather than in others, that the evaluation of one Ministry is set up that it is under a frame, but that it's an energy agency's assessment that it does not. I feel like it just needs to be explained. However, the task of our Environment and Resource Minister working on this is simply to create a frame around how we appreciate the activation options in wind power and how it takes place. Of course, we need to look forward to having a law on environmental impacts, planning laws, local authority rights over their affairs, etc., so we simply have to find a way to map where wind power tools can be, because unlike the geologic and water sources, they can really be everywhere. But we are not. Rather, we want to look to other factors. [[The president calls.]] It has to be charted. And what is the course of such cases? My opinion is that this cannot possibly be so that the course of such cases is in exactly the same way as that of water and earthwater. [[The president calls.]] But there are other viewpoints when it comes to their actions, and I'll find out more about it in the future. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u22	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer is excellent. Of course, this brings attention to the fact that the two Ministers, industrial ministers, and environmental ministers each seem to look at the matter from their own perspective. In this context, I would like to ask the highest. A minister of what he sees in his mind about explaining this matter and moving it in to make it clear. As I mentioned in my speech, there are, of course, 34 advantages to a group on frame 4 and there are very strange places if it is all unclear whether the matter is above the schedule. Then, if time works, interesting to hear, just like that from a general point of view, what's the highest attitude. A minister is a useful source of wind and a building of wind mills.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u23	Mr. President. It's a nice game to ask us about our position. I understand every step of it perfectly. A senator is going and making no comment about it. That's very normal. Of course, the most important thing to do is to explain and create a proper process, and that work is in progress and is in very good cooperation between us, me and the Environment and Resource Minister. The task is simply to create a frame and to explain the rules of wind power options and in which they should go. It's going to be a different process than aquifer and a water supply. That's for sure. My personal view of wind power is that the rules need to be clear. The box needs to be clear about what really matters there. The environmental considerations apply to wind and other sources, however. In these areas, as in so many times before, I also like to look to the countries beyond us, with more experience in building winds than we do, making mistakes that we can then try to avoid. That is why we have built our work on looking to them, so it is simply the task. I'm completely aware of it, and I assume that the structure of wind energy will be here on the land, and I'd celebrate it as long as it's done right.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u24	A respectable president. I still stand here, and I can't help speaking about the equations of electricity distribution. There are two registrations in the country to transport electricity, i.e. rural and urban prices. The cost of electricity has increased to more rural areas than urban areas in recent years, and it is apparent that urbanisation is constantly reduced. The current equation is far from equalizing this difference. The cost is now about one quarter higher in rural areas, despite the tax price set to equalise the spread cost of electricity in the country. In today's state, many companies in the country calm themselves to stay active. Travel companies are often located in the rural area. Their competitiveness is far worse than those who buy electricity transport on urban pay. Paying as much as 350,000 bucks is a great deal for a hotel. The power bill when the guests don't return to their houses. For a rural company, whether for tourism or food production, it would be the best support for the effects of Covid is to equal the mass cost of electricity. Since I was last November with a question for industrial and innovation ministers, and we talked about the equations of electricity costs, circumstances have changed in many ways. In December and winter, the damage to the weather calls for large improvements in the distribution system of electricity, which involves extra costs and could result in an even greater difference in urban and rural transport costs. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Call out the circumstances that exist today not even faster work by the Department of Employment with the Power Institute for identifying and finding the most practical way to level the emissions of electricity? When can action be expected in this direction?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u25	Mr. President. We've had a conversation about this aspect of the power system before here at the council. I've said that this imbalance is one of the biggest sources of our electrical systems, and that opinion, of course, is. The mission is not going to leave us. The possibility is, in fact, one currency that we have considered, but there are a number of reasons for raising an equation that people in urban areas would not feel, and the decision to do so has not been made, or simply a donation from a government fund. This is about the year in which the total amount of money today will be returned. One billion more so that it would take about 1 billion more that could be taken away only from the law. We appreciate that the demand for an increase due to the smooth distribution costs in rural areas is peaked over the next three to five years. It is interesting to consider in the context that if we make a special contribution from the Kingdom Fund, it will go down again, it will not be expenses from a government fund into eternity. Like what? A senator mentioned a number of situations since we were discussing this a few months ago, and all emphasis was placed on trusting the system. We've put a few hundred million extra to trust the system, to put these strings on the ground, which is a key factor. We can imagine what the situation would have been here in these storms if we had continued to have all those lines in the air when it comes to the distribution system. To be honest, today's focus is that the system is solid enough to endure such a storm. It doesn't change the fact that we have to balance this cost. It's just a question of whether we're gonna take it from the government fund. This too must be a priority. It is then a billion that goes on and not something else. It's going to be a fancy job going through what money's supposed to go that we don't have. But it is quite true that it is difficult to talk about a reasonable electrical system and real freedom to live when there is so much discrimination. [[The president calls.]] I'm trapped in the fact that we have to find a way to fix this, so it's the same cost. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u26	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and motivate him in these matters. Expansion of the distribution cost of electricity can simply separate between unpredicted and deadness of companies in the country depending on where they are located. It is not acceptable that the mass cost of electricity can separate that amount. Last month at the top meeting of the National Reactivation Committee was approved to pay the State 10 billion dollars. ... infringement. At the last Ennisburfjörður Vestur, held last week, it was decided not to pay interest but to defend the money that is available, I think, about 60 million. K., act in the area. Couldn't we look at this interest from land induction and speed up this project with regard to the equation of electricity distribution?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u27	Mr. President. Of course, you can watch the money that comes into your country's trade fund and then make a decision about how to use it. Well, it's a normal way of working, I guess. The other is just a company that generates electricity, and we shouldn't take it from there directly and transfer it to a government fund. Then there's a debate we haven't done much in this room, but I'd like to take it very interesting, because we have the production of electricity, transport, distribution and sales, i.e. That we are in this small country with six diffusers. Of course, they vary from one to the other, and some are not entirely owned by the State. But if we let ourselves watch some system changes in how we build up the distribution system and how we make sure that everyone really has access to it, that there is enough trust everywhere, and there is not much difference between what people pay for it, then at least there could be a difference. to mention it and to wonder if we can simply go into some kind of economy, see the cost of running six diffusers in the country, or if they can simply be fewer, if in some way we can change in how we run these systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u28	Mr. President. I recommend here a proposal for a synopsis on the prevention of sexual and sexual violence and harassment, with a change in the prevention of children and young people against sexual and sexual violence and harassment, as well as a plan for operations in the year 2021 servant2025. It's a landmark proposal in my opinion where prevention is expected to be integrated in teaching and in school at all schools. They take place in all leisure homes and social centers, in sports and youth, and in other activities. Study material should be provided for all schools, educational material on the nature and consequences of sexual and sexual violence and harassment for staff working with children and young people. In order to ensure the implementation of the programme, there are some other challenges. suggests that the European Union of Icelandic rural society employs special vice presidents, working with rural and school, and extracurricular schools, in an effort to impart knowledge and education to elementary and preschools across the country. He has also defined a role for higher schools, which are not part of the rural community. Prime Minister is responsible for this action programme in collaboration with education and culture minister, social and child - care minister and health minister. The total cost over five years is estimated to be about 30 to 40 million. K. A year's basis. We received countless visitors from a committee meeting that is available with this suggestion. The objective is to eliminate sexual and sexual violence and harassment from the Icelandic community and to prevent violence, harassment, and reduce the harm caused by tolerance and to promote culture where violence cannot be obtained. The interpretation proposal originated in a community conversation around #metoo, where the discussion of sexual and sexual violence and harassment grew greatly, and as we participated in the revolution # capital. Of course, some of these matters have been discussed before. However, the suggestion focuses mainly on children and young people and assumes steps over the next five years at these schools. It is also stated, and it is important to assess the effectiveness of the procedure. This is the first time that the European Council's collective policy for prevention of sexual and sexual violence and harassment, and is also a national action accompanied by the government on international commitments, particularly against the European Council's Convention on Prevention and Prevention and Combining Sexual Violence and Misuse, so called the Istangul Treaty of the United Nations for the discrimination of Women, and the European Convention on Protection Against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse, called Lanzaore. These international agreements lay upon us rich governments to eliminate such violence. Therefore, we rejoice in the General and Education Committee that this is a clear, premeditated program for this purpose. According to the Istanbul Convention, the Icelandic government is under obligation to promote attitudes in the community to prevent sexual violence. Governments also need to ensure access to the study material on equality at all school levels so that a child can be taught mutual respect. According to this contract, the General concluded that an action plan is an important part of this introduction. The policy is for children and young people, and it includes targeted, well - defined, well - defined, school - and - leisure activities of children and young people. The Commission's comments on the fact that university degrees were excluded in these overall preemptive measures, despite the fact that they should reach all schools. The text of the Parliamentary arrangement, as well as the main objective, shows that the actions of this conclusion should reach all children and young people in the country. Preventions directed to adults and students in high school are thus beyond the topic of the synonym. We thought it best to say so, since there were opinions about something and something else that we felt did not necessarily belong here. This suggestion discusses the prevention of children and young people and is intended to reach all schools. It may be reasoned that the sooner we engage in such precaution because of the children in the school system, the more they will achieve their goal. It is also easier to cover long walks at previous schools than at a university, where only a portion of each year's study is done. The Commission reiterates that Iceland's University has an extensive knowledge of education in university sex studies and is essential to the use of that knowledge, including the use of it. to develop lessons for other levels of education. Therefore, the committee felt that it would be clear in the pretext of a conclusion that it was responsible for the prevention of children and young people. That is why the headline is adjusted accordingly. The reviews of the Qualified Community and the Developmental Fund showed that disabled people, especially disabled women, and disabled children, were more vulnerable to any kind of violence than do people in general, as there were frequent cases of power imbalances that were created when a person has to rely on the help of others. Therefore, it would be necessary to consider especially the prevention among disabled children and young ones, as well as those working with them. Following a review of the proposal for a government consultation, there was a sharp discussion of the instruction of those who work with disabled children and youths and follow up on the implementation of the plan. The committee points out that according to the proposal, different needs and circumstances of the sex and groups of people are taken into account, such as the disabled, the children, and the young, queer children, and young people, and young people with a different mother tongue than Icelandic, since children and young people are very different, as we are adults. The importance of education and prevention is not often pointed out to all these different groups. A great deal of discussion was made in the reviews of the need for sex instruction to be a subject for both basic and high school education, as well as in the teacher's study itself. The one standing here would have liked to have it done, but maybe it's not done. The Ministry of Presidency pointed out in a memo that equality is certainly one of the basic points of education at all schools according to the main curriculum. Hopefully, this program of action will include an increased coverage of equality, especially when we get a good, careful study course. The committee who worked on this synopsis in itself was not authorized to propose a new student's test that would ensure that gender might be a subject for high school education. Hence, as part of the program itself, the subject of gender had become subject to it. It could be guaranteed, not as a mandatory subject, but through equality. The university has full independence on the content of its study and cannot make a change in the subject under which it is presented. But I'm right. I think that would be a good idea. Two. 23rd par. law on equal positions and equal rights of women and men is certainly a obligation to teach students of all schools on equality. The committee thus encourages that such instruction, in addition to the desirableness of teachers, will be educated in their study so as to be able to have another such education. That's where I think the foundation is very important, i.e. that those teaching teachers and teachers themselves and those working with young ones receive instruction that if anything is wrong, they will be able to communicate matters and strengthen young ones and their self - image. Many sent in a review that would like to be carried out and carried out by individual actions, which, as a means of understanding, are not unusual. That is true in many matters, and I think it is desirable, there are many things to know. Also, there are a wide range of material, so I think it would be reasonable for those who present a case once, i.e. individual programmes, to take this into account, and to take more attention to reporting and planning. It's important for someone to put their arms around the job. Here, an employee is expected to be hired at the head of the European Commission to follow this programme and to cooperate with the implementation of this programme and to bring the parties together during the procedure. There was concern that cost was underestimated, especially in some rural communities. It was noted that the work being done by the Prefect Agent was intended to be more extensive than sensitive to one status value. The Ministry of Presidency agrees in their notes that this work is truly vast, but it feels that it should be settled within the rank in agreement with the colleagues and responsible personnel of the individual measures, since it is not all on one hand, and it is important to prioritise in the five years covered by the plan. This isn't supposed to happen all at once. A child - welfare agency similarly expressed concern about underestimated costs of the activities the Agency and the Children's House are responsible for. According to the Prevention Programme, the Children's Institute and Children's Houses are responsible for the preparation of an online course for those who work with children and young people and the development of a school for preschool. The course of the Internet will be based on the content of the single course Protecting them, the authors of the Children's House of Children. There I come back to the fact that there are quite a few of the material already that we the most skilled people in these areas are assigned to work along and to follow along. Funding is expected at 8.5 million. K. in the season and then we expect 5 billion. K. to develop lessons for pre-school. It encourages that the new material will not be a source of anxiety and that the work of Reykjavíkurburg Opink is not subject to violence. There is more. The childhood and others brought something worthwhile to consider and make use of. The memo also points out that it was emphasized on the Committee on Prevention Policy Convention that the knowledge and experience of Children's Study for Children would be new. Plans allow funding for the Children's House and Children's Health Institute for Studymakers, but it has not been considered to be the need to increase their status. According to the Commission, the above - mentioned project should be extended within the cost assessment but directed to the government to put further financial contributions into loyalty, the need for this. It is important that equal education and prevention of sexual violence begin at the first level immediately. Therefore, the Committee welcomes part of the programme for training for its staff, i.e. The nursery class, how to discuss such violence with preschoolers, and how to react if a child is suspected of being violent or harassed. It also requires the development of a study course that pleases this age group and that a regular medical examination of children should be used to instruct parents. The narrative of the Parliament concluded that the directives C.1 set out that each basic school should be a burden to staff students. It would be especially difficult to do the teamwork in small schools in the country without any significant increase in pressure on employees. The committee points out that once high school is already laid up with considerable responsibilities for equal education, not only to the main course but also to the law on equal status and equal rights of women and men. By means of a sexual, sexual, sexual, and harassment plan, schools and schools are provided with tools and tools to conduct this training through a new study course and the assistance of the new Commission of the Union. In the treatment of the case, recent research showed a direct cost of violence. Thus, investment in basic and clear processes within the institutions of education in leisure pursuits is surely reversible. At the same time, the Ministry's memo notes that schools should be taken into account that there are different schools after being touched. It is important to consider suggestions to include more schools within the same community, especially in small but vast rural areas. We agree with this on the Committee, thinking that it is good to have cooperation between partners and those within those appropriate places. But prevention is especially important in high school. According to a reference to the Union of Icelandic high school students, high school students themselves view sexual violence as common and occur within the walls of school. There is also an important need for increased sexual education and communication, but not only regarding sexually transmitted diseases and contraception. Thus, the relationship between Icelandic high school students suggests that educational material will be carried out in cooperation with students so that it can be assured that education will be the most effective and, of course, emphasize what they feel is missing. Under these circumstances, we join the committee, and we rejoice that we will be able to develop a useful study of sexual and sexual violence and harassment for students in the field. They also discussed whether they should be the same study material for students in field and general fields or not. But we think it's good to have this with special emphasis in the Senate arrangement, i.e. that students receive the study material in an appropriate way. After teaching such students, I think it's a real thrill that such things will be done because once they're part of a whole, many of them have special positions. In order to achieve its goals, it is key to reaching out to all those working with children and young people. Therefore, we rejoice that this plan of action will cover leisure and sports and youth activities. We are encouraged by the Children's U.S. agent to broad and active consultation with children and young people on the forwarding of this policy, as such consultations can be made with students and youth councils, as well as with social centers and sports companies. The procedure is accompanied by clear targets and criteria as well as by the carer for each step of action. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the Ministry of Presidency carries the primary responsibility for follow-up and shall summon to him annually, which I consider important, all those responsible for the conduct of individual actions. The programme also requires that the head of the European Union member of the Union work closely with the Ministry of Presidency, providing annual reports on their work and development of the projects. This Precautionary Agent should also be counselling in the preparation of a 2026◯2030 strategy. To this end, it is important to take into account international commitments, we assess the effectiveness of individual actions, since there is more to take action, we need to be able to follow through in order to do so. The committee suggests two changes, as mentioned here at the outset, i.e. to convert the headline and add it to the age-seated audience of children and young people and that the 1st paragraph puts it this way: ▪ The General concluded to hide prime minister, education and cultural minister, social and child - care minister and health minister to establish organized prevention measures among children and young people against sexual and sexual violence and harassment. Hv. Congressmen Inst. Hrafn Gunnarsson and Guðmundur Andri Thorsson sign this opinion in advance of financing, since they count adequate funding in order to follow the unsupervised plan. Other than that, it's supposed to be signed below. Councilmen, who stands here, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Páll Sigríður, Árnadóttir Kolbrönnadóttir, Birgir the Aarg son of Ármannsson, Shilgg Gunnarsdóttir Ginsdottir, Steinunn Þóra of the Year's Árnadóttir, and Díbjörídur Gunlótir Gunnlaugsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u29	A respectable president. This is a conquistador of sexual violence and harassment for this long period of time. I'm asking why. A senator: Does she really think that the money we're going to make will do? When I began watching the huge lawsuits that concern disabled children who are in a more sensitive position to be sexually abused, as I have shown themselves, and those who are listed there, like queer children and children of foreign origin, I would think that this funds could only work for that party. And it might even have to be more because I'm putting this into context that we just approved 5,000 bucks. A check for all the people of the country, about 1.5 billion, if I recall correctly. If I put that amount in this suit, which is so important that we really thought well that because we also know that there's another big problem going on, it's digital violence on community media. That, on its own, is a big deal. So I ask. A senator: Does she feel this funding is sufficient? As far as I'm concerned, it seems like it's kind of a spade, not real. If we're gonna be taken seriously and we're gonna do this properly, I hope this is just the first step.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The overall cost of the procedure is estimated between 30 and 40 million. K. every year for the next five years. As a result, the cost of new study and educational materials is thought to fall as the plan goes on. It has been suggested that part of the budget temporarily rolled to Iceland's equal rights fund in this pre-programming program. But as I said in my case, and the committee clearly explains that there are certain points here. On the one hand, each year, a prime minister gets a success evaluation of his life during those five years to see what is coming down the wind and how it works. To me, the most important thing is to have the plan accomplished. Then it's the financing thing. If, as the committee stresses, the third year of the five, is lacking, we will fail and will likely bring an increase in money on this matter if this is not guaranteed elsewhere. That's why I think we also need to call on when this case is approved and started every year we can call on how it's going, how it's going, to be convinced that there's a lot of money being put on these actions. But as I say, there may be considerable expense at the outset, certainly in the company's premeditation work. Yet, there are 30940 million for this assignment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u31	A respectable president. I thank you for the answer, and I agree with many ways. But what I fear and what I'm wondering is what it was like at the time when we made plans for smoking prevention. We made this super-programm, so we followed it very closely, and that worked. I'm wondering if we don't have to have a plan for the future, so we can follow through on it. To get it into school, into everything. It's much better to have a team that makes a real point so that it doesn't go hand in hand. And of course, there are solutions to which you also need to deal specifically with computers and media. It is extremely difficult to deal with. But there's definitely a solution to that, there's a question about finding them, setting them up, and getting the party to handle this really because this is a matter we should put first. If we can put a huge amount of money on tours, we should be able to put a lot of money into it to make sure that such things are prevented. We must be able to say that we are doing all we can in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u32	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator, it is important that we try to do everything within our power. That's what we're talking about, i.e. Prevention, trying to stop something from happening. But it is also important for those who manage young ones and work with them to be able to discern and to be aware of the signs that must be read in and in such things. I think that the basic thought of this is to educate the people who work with our children and young ones, that there are people who are on the move to tell them the opposite way and react and interrupt if something is not the way it is supposed to be. That's why I say, "The prevention of this is perhaps the most important thing. ' The rest is so true, like a dog. A senator points to digital violence. Violence is everywhere, unfortunately. It doesn't matter whether it's on digital media, or whether it's in word or how it is, it's important to eliminate it, and I trust that because it comes every year on the board of the Ministry, and that we can call for information on how we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, the tools in our hands to see if the money is missing, or if it doesn't work with these cases, they should have made courses, or they've been doing something they're doing, we're supposed to be able to find out and fail to measure it. So I hope this works out the way we put it up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u33	A respectable president. I wanted to discuss this matter. I really like this suggestion and this job. The goal is to eliminate sexual violence. I wholeheartedly agree that it is a small characteristic of this category's problem that there has been too little emphasis throughout the ages on prevention and we are a community, as well as those who work within the systems to deal with these offenses, whether within the child protection or health system, police or justice system, all too attached to being on the verge of dealing with perennial issues that could have been prevented. On this recommendation, the probing is directed to children and young men, whom I believe, at the same time, are very positive. It is a pleasure to see that this is a focalal policy in this regard. All our criminal studies, all our child - welfare statistics, hospitals, and health systems, tell us that this is necessary, and hopefully it will also be beneficial. The big goal must be that with increased understanding and increased locks, we are able to form a community, as well as to work with children, simply to reduce the number of these matters. It may be another aspect of our success, as is the purpose of the proposal, to eliminate it altogether. I think violence is such a lesion that we always have to approach the problem with their glasses that it will not be so easily removed. However, I must agree with the concern that has already been heard, which attracts the funding. It is now simply this way with all the policies and all politics and, in fact, most of our jobs, that funding has everything to say how much energy and ghost follows policy, whether it will be prepared for the development of a real system of decomposition and follow-up. I have already heard the answers to these anxious voices, and I am delighted to learn that there is a basis for understanding that it can be met by a conversation and so deal with. But I have to say, I think this is a real concern as far as this good proposal goes. I believe that governments who take this party seriously leave the money behind, thereby showing their will. As a matter of fact, I feel that all institutions, not just those that agree with this proposal; that we are increasingly looking at the welfare authorities, that we are looking at the health system, the police, the prosecution, and the courts. It is a fact, and it is reality today that funding the system that handles the consequences of violence, e.g. to children, it has not been enough. I mention again the institutions I already mentioned, the police, the prosecutions, and the courts. Sadly, it is true that today it is happening again and again in the courts of the country that in cases where the conviction was found, where the doer, the defendant, is convicted for sexual abuse against a child, we see it as being thrown out, and, unfortunately, it is not totally exceptions, that punishment is softened by what is called, and it stands under the name, the excessive contracts, and the time of treatment. The explanation is simply that there are too few employees who take care of too much weight and too many jobs. I would like to see it become a continuation of this fine proposal and extension of this fine task that all the consequences of this violence are taken into account and that we will be about to respond to it quickly and effectively when they do. We look at them from one end of the prevention process and aim to cut back, while making sure that the system is able to deal with the problems that arise. It is truly my desire that this good universalism be established that it can live up to its name. To say that, because I've been flaunting my concerns about the financing of the plan, I'd like to mention it in particular that I'm celebrating this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u34	A respectable president. This is a turning point, such as why. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir mentioned it in her speech, an important matter. Of course, we should have been out of the way a long time ago, but good things happen slowly, and such system changes take an enormous amount of time because tradition and habits and other things, in which sexual abuse and sexual harassment have been partially accepted, are part of culture, are deeply rooted, and it takes time to wind up from these things. The suggestion, prevention of sexual and sexual violence and harassment, as well as a plan for the 2021/2025, is a big step in the right direction. What I like best about this program, a respectable president, is that it contains very clear goals, responsibilities are clear, and reevaluate regularly and reevaluate. That makes the plan in my mind very trustworthy, and I believe it will bring us forward. I'd like to agree with what. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Sigríður Gunnlaugsdóttir, my daughter, who spoke before me, pointed to judicial procedures in the legal system where sex offenders are usually reduced even because there is a delay in court treatment. All of us know that sexual abusers often delay the charge, the shame, and the breakdown that it takes time, often with the great help of experts, to get the shock and damage to the surface. In reality, people do not admit the crime to themselves, and they are very late to accuse them. Then there's a slow treatment within the justice system, including Because of man's food, and even because of lack of knowledge and lack of understanding of the nature of the language. Hv. A senator pointed out that, in addition to this, and perhaps thereafter, a complete view of these factors would need to be made. This is part of the system, and we need to keep this in mind in the big context. The evidence contains much, and especially much information. This is a very good understanding of this general action, and as I said earlier, it is very clear who has the responsibilities, costs, and so on. Yet, as others have mentioned, there have been some doubts about the cost of lunch. I heard why. paritaprevir In her speech, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir spoke of the need to weigh this aspect as the projects begin and evaluate and respond. It is also shown in the opinion of the greater part that, of course, we need to respond and finance these projects as necessary. But we're on our way, and that's fine. I have mentioned here the importance of follow up and regularly evaluate the results. The case reviews the leading issue, and it says, by permission of the president: ▪ Governments have taken many measures with the goal of resisting such violence as and responding to its consequences. In this context, there are acts related to the treatment of sexual abuse in the justice system, the interpretation of a program for the years 2019,2022 on acts of violence and its consequences, the sexual, mental, and physical abuse awakening of children, which took place in 2012◯2015 and sexual immunity policies (digital sexual abuse). Despite much work, the overall policy of prevention against sexual and sexual violence and harassment has never been developed. It's something important. So it says: However, a number of working groups have called for as well as rich demands on the Icelandic government on international commitments... Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir gave it a very clear review in his speech, so I'm not going to repeat it. However, in the case of this matter, our commitments are outlined very accurately and by other laws that we have confirmed here at the Council, which aims in this direction. Thus, it is a continuation of a great many measures and practices and legislation that we have already accepted and applied. The chapter of the report on goals and delinquency is very good, but there is a better understanding of the harmony with other measures. There may be no need to read it all up, it's very interesting. But what may be the scariest part of this report is the statistics discussed in the chapter on sexual and sexual violence and harassment, Mr. President. With the permission of the president, I would like to read a brief chapter from that discussion. It says: ▪ Sexual violence and harassment are a major threat to the life and health of children and young people in Iceland. According to European Council statistics, one in five children suffer some form of sexual violence. Recent statistics brought together in the report on children's status in Iceland: new statistics for the development of violence against children in Iceland (2019) show that more than 16% of children answer to the fact that they have suffered physical or sexual abuse before 18 years of age. In 9,◯10. For non - adult persons, 8% of girls and 4% of boys have been sexually abused. This report is based on data from Studies & Analysis and Steps that provide sexual abuse for adults. According to U.S. Public Health, since 2019, 15.5% of high school students have been sexually abused, while the figures come from the premium of Studies & analyses since 2018. Based on statistics from the Cant convention, the majority of their clients were exposed to violence as children, or before they were 18 years old. More research and further research are cited, but at the same time, Mr President, it is emphasized that sexual and sexual violence thrives in silence. This thrives when we do not force the offenders to back up; they do not admit their offense; rather, they are moved to keep on tormenting their victims. It says that 40% of violent people guarantee silence, e.g. by threats, violence, bribes, or by blaming the victim that the victim takes responsibility for the crime. This silence has to be interrupted, and it breaks down with increased education, participation, not just the public institutions, but the continued awareness of each one, from preschooled children, that they immediately learn to respect boundaries, and we teach them to respect the boundaries of others and to respect their own boundaries. As I said at the outset, violence in our culture and without even knowing it, we have accepted and endured it and accepted it for far too long and have been guilty of accepting this silence because violence is uncomfortable and it's ugly and it's best to forget it. But that's not how we fix things. I think this program we're considering today, this very broad program involving public members and partners, and especially the general public, who will participate in it in one way or another, is a huge step to eliminate sexual and sexual violence and all kinds of violence. In this discussion, I believe, 23 reviews were available. The General and Education Committee, and we had guests who had a lot of good things to say. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir did well with key tips that may have been particularly concerned about cost estimates, and it was also a significant mention of the basic schools responsible for school education and projects, perhaps more difficult in urban areas and in smaller schools. The conclusion, then, may be that the team would be scattered in areas rather than having conversations and consultations with one another in order to do things as well as to follow them closely. However, this is something that may need to be restored when we start working on these assignments. There's one thing to say and another to do, but somewhere we must begin and this is a good start, as I've said many times today. The report contains a chapter on international commitments and normic cooperation. I feel a bit obliged to be chairman of the Northern Council of Iceland to discuss only what has to do with the Norwegian partnership. It has a short coverage and, with president's permission, would I like to read it: In the year 2019, 45 years had passed since the decision of the Norwegian Minister to begin formal cooperation in the fields of equality. Work against sexual and sexual violence has been most important in this work. In 2018, the UNIK, the Norwegian Information Centre on Sex and Sex Studies, published a summary of government action against sexual violence, followed by the approval of the European Parliament's Istanbul Convention, under the heading The Istanbl Convention, The Nordic Way. The high frequency of reported fractures and serious social consequences of sexual violence are discussed in countries that are generally set to the top of the list in international comparison of sexual equality. In recent years, the North countries have fully validated the Istanbul Convention and are now cooperating with national programmes to implement the terms of the contract. In the summary, the importance of planning is laid down in the sense of sexual, sexual, sexual, and that such violence is particularly directed to girls and women, as well as to groups that have been peripheral. It is then recommended to perform systematic improvements so that education and prevention are never planned for a short period of time but the integrated activities of health and education institutions, such as by training and training at all schools. In a board of committees why. The General and Education Committee is well reviewed applications and comments on the subject and review, and an authority has made this clear. But what I would like to draw out especially today is what I ended earlier, i.e. around perimeter groups. I prefer to mention disabled women and disabled children. It was noted in its reviews that these groups are far more vulnerable to violence and have to rely on others for help and even for the help of the violent. And it's just terrible. Therefore, this should be kept in mind when we are preparing these assignments and education for young people as well as for young people who have a different language, so that all material will be most useful to them and available to them. Especially should it be clear where these young ones can be found when they are subjected to violence, and they realize that silence is what is most dangerous and should not be tolerated. This is a change of mind that we must somehow pass through among all groups, long or low. It is noted in many articles and in the opinion of the Committee that it is important not only to teach children about this but also to all who are involved in the work with children and teenagers, both in schools, in leisure activities, and in all jobs, so that people are more aware of the manifestations of violence and manifestations of violence and are aware of the ways that can be used to assist individuals in this situation. The knowledge of this class is widely shared, and the projects in this program, which are in front of us, aim to get that knowledge together a little, linking parties so that we can do more to the community. All comments showed that people wanted to put in knowledge, and the reviews were all very good. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir mentioned that there is an abundance of material. It may just have to be updated and adjusted to different groups. But all who discussed the matter and came to the committee were invited to assist and contribute, and it was a real pleasure to see it. I'm here, for example. ... with a review from the Children's Institute to celebrate this proposal, that there is a general policy on prevention of sexual violence. A child - welfare agency quotes the international contracts and laws that we have already committed and believes that the proposal is greatly improved, but it shows that the cost factor may be underestimated. There is something that will become evident, and we need to take into consideration when it comes time to do so. Children's manager also had a very good review, and he showed the importance of having his children on board, where this will be involved in the actions and actions of children. An agent suggests, for example, an agent. The pre-emptive teams in the school will be working with the students at that school and I just think it's a good idea to have the young in my head to get the best results. I don't have time to review it, Mr. President, but in the conclusion of the release by children's emissary is very important and good publicity about the position of disabled children and teenagers in which the agent has shared with this group and underlined how vulnerable that group is. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u35	Mr. President. We'll discuss a proposal for a hearing about prevention of sexual and sexual violence. It is one of the main roles of the State to counteract the violence of its citizens. And because the State cannot succeed in ensuring that no one is using another violence, it also has the vital role of investigating violence and, in the cases where guilt is proved, to see to it that the guilty person is punished in accordance with law. In other words, it is very important to fight violence, including, of course, sexual abuse. In this discussion, the attention to sexual abuse and then to what is called sexual violence is considered. The latter has been defined as violence on the basis of sex, and it can be said that it must be fought like all other forms of violence, but I am not sure that the right actions laid down here are strictly against sexual violence and sexual violence. It is almost merely about violence and may even emphasize it, that sexual abuse is at the same time particularly involved. Violence is simply a problem that is to be fought, whether it is of the same sex or not. There's something else I'd especially like to mention. According to the proposal, the battle against violence is to be fought at all levels of school and started at school. This is where I think it's time to stop. Of course, violence is to be fought. But we must not let the quality of the cause, the quality of the struggle, take over. Are you going to take this fight to the nursery? Is she to be taken to the youngest grade? Of course, it will be said that this refers to education, not inculturation, and that it will be the product of individual development, and that it will be in the hands of professional staff. I'm not gonna pretend I'm an expert here. Yet, I would like to say that children should be allowed to be children. Adults, even if they have a good cause and an honorable fight, must take very easy action to get their own concerns into the mind of their children. How has this been in the environment for the past few years? It has been considered necessary to teach children, from their preschool onward, about the environment. They are grouped and reused because resources are running out of resources and are filling up with junk. Mankind is going so badly on the earth. At the nursery, the green flag will flap, but the Icelandic one may not be able to see it any more. There is also reports that children can no longer be at school worried about the environment. In many places, teachers urge their children to skip classes to stand with a sign in front of a television camera. Apparently, many find it difficult to sleep because of climate anxiety. Mr. President. Is it certain that all this instruction to children about threats to this world is good? Should adults be worrying about their childhood? The carefree existence is short enough. Does it really need to put responsibility on preconceiving resources and overcrowded garbage dumps on the shoulders of preschoolers? Do preschoolers need to be implied that they are likely to experience violence and other violence? Do basic schoolchildren need to be told that they themselves or their schoolmates are likely to be sexual offenders? Mr. President. Of course, children need instruction. But children are not to be intimidated. And if it's time for a generation of children to be badly affected by climate anxiety, I hope that the next educational effort will not lead to such anxiety as an eating disorder of sexual abuse and sexual violence. Of course, I suppose it's a coincidence, that at the same time, schoolchildren are becoming almost unaware of the fear of the environment, there will be a more intense demand from various sources that the election age will be reduced. Yet, while many do not see that children are being taught repeatedly about environmental threats, they are often very alert to the fact that schoolchildren are not being given the New Testament, which is an extremely good and beneficial reading to people of all ages. And that is a prominent message, which says, according to President's permission, "Don't be anxious. "
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u36	A respectable president. I have to admit, I thought some of the giddy things were in the speech of two people. A senator I'd like to talk to him about. Hv. A senator mentioned that we should fight any form of violence. That's right. But, hey. Of course, a senator must see that there are sexual violence, domestic violence, child abuse, child abuse, and other circumstances than when someone is punched in the stomach at three o'clock in the middle of Reykjavík, not that it is very common. There is a difference in nature, you see that violence at home, through relationships, and the like, is always justified. It is a type of conduct that will soon be natural in some way in both the violent person and the victim. That is why such training is needed. When children are young, they need to explain to them what is normal behavior and what is not normal behavior. People's standards are often very vague, especially if they are not spoken of. Therefore, it is especially important to teach children, or just people in general, about how you set boundaries and tell people that they have your own bodies and that they do not have to explain whether they want to do this or the other things about their bodies. It is a very important message that has been lacking in our culture over the years. There's been a lot of plans for other people, e.g. Someone who thinks he is never resorting to violence, believes he may, has the right to do so. I feel that this view is missing in speech. A senator who puts all violence under one hat. It's not simple, it's a physical fraction that happens under different circumstances, and it needs to be taken into account by preventive measures at different times. In the case of violence, I think it is necessary to intervene as a child. It is not about scaring their children, but warnings need to be made about what can happen in their lives and when they grow up, they experience a natural object. Children feel that everything is normal. That's the big problem. Children feel that everything is normal, really no matter what it is. Therefore, early intervention is needed. I felt that this was missing in a senator's speech. I don't really have a question myself. It's just a sincere answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u37	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for this net question. In view of the problem. In this counter, a senator did not ask me a question. I just want to agree that children, of course, need to be educated. But all this evidence suggests that we are going on a trip similar to that of climate, as I described in my talk earlier, where it is repeatedly described that children down to an incredibly young age can not sleep through climate worries or so forth. I wondered, " Is it wise to take such instruction into school, e.g. to the youngest children in this regard, for taking such things into elementary school really means education to a total of six years of age. But soon from that age, I thought it would be wise to take a much more informed discussion of harassment than that subject. I just have to say right now. I wanted to come up to respond to these general views of the senator. I'm sorry, but there's some evidence that we're on some kind of disaster talk there. But I will not reduce what I said in my earlier talk: We are to instruct my children, not scare them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u38	A respectable president. Now, the person standing here has personally experience in being a victim of harassment during childhood, and he knows a lot about it, as well as how the discussion around him has changed over the years. She has changed because she has talked to her children about what harassment is. It has changed because it is said to children: " Yes, with all due respect, a loving child, sometimes you are involved in harassment. ' You don't mean anything by it, but you do. Sexual abuse is just the same; people often feel that they are not doing anything wrong with others. That's part of the problem. That is why the discussion must take place immediately, really, as soon as people can be sexually abused. Then they need to know what it is. Of course, we should try to scare children as little as possible, but this is the threat, they need to be aware of and understanding the boundaries, or they will not understand it, and they are much more likely to become victims of violence simply because they do not know violence from what is being introduced to them as normal. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson respond. I'm sorry, of all my discussions, I don't seem to be doing anything very well with the problems of bullying, especially younger, high school and high school, because as anyone knows who studies these matters, so it is such a problem to find at all ages, so to speak. I hope that the battle against violence will go better than the struggle against harassment has over the years. I don't think there was a question answer. A senator, but I restate that I hope that the battle against violence will go better than the battle against harassment during the past few years and decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u40	A respectable president. I must say, I was amazed at this speech. paritaprevir Bergþór Oli's Ólason. First, he spent more than half his time talking about the environment, certainly with some reference to what was being taught children, about climate and the consequences of that disaster, would be primarily panic, at least That's how you get it. At the same time, he spoke of the need to fight any form of violence. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: Is he saying, then, that the education taking place in schools, whether it has meant encouraging students to participate in Eastern climate protests or something like that, is some kind of violence? Out of my sight, maybe I just want to stick to this plan we're discussing. Here's what we're talking about. A senator on inculturation, including At the elementary and high school, and the green flag project and God knows what in all of this. Like what? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, who spoke before me said, is in violence everywhere in the community. We know that. I'd like to ask you what. A senator when he feels it best to start protecting children or whether they should not take place until they reach a certain age. I'd like to see into a world of thought. That's the case with a senator. When is it time? It says: ▪ The most important way to make sure that violence and harassment are addressed in a way suitable for preschoolers is to provide careful and accessible study material available to preschool teachers and other staff. And later, he says: A child's education for children is suggested by references to the rich knowledge of the Children's House. Rather, it takes note of material that has been developed by a nursery teacher under the heading "Do Not Fear. " I think it's merely melancholy about what's happened. A senator was talking about, not fear, but instruction. Here's a emphasis on that, including In high school.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u41	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for the answer. I'll give myself an exception. A member of Congress on the left is complaining about half of the talk being related to climate. But as to her question about whether it is violence to encourage children to participate in climate protests, it was not directly in my speech. But I learned in my speech that it has been said that young children, children who have not reached their teens, have experienced tremendous fear in connection with the climate discussion. I want us to take care of the fact that the violent debate, as delicate and difficult as it is, will not take the same course, that we will not add to any other intense fear of these youngest and most vulnerable groups from the preschool age to the early middle school years. I don't trust myself here and now to determine age frames, but I can only say that I have considerable conviction that children of high school need to be around with great caution and caution in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u42	Mr. President. You see, that's the thing. Puberty - age children are exposed to sexual violence and sexual violence - it is very important to keep that in mind. So it is very important that those who work with children, as planned, keep their arms on this, recognize the signals, and know when to intervene. These articles discuss prevention as suitable for preschoolers and discuss different ways in which children have been subjected to violence and harassment to report their experiences. They're trying to work on a coordinated response and such. I'm asking why. Again, the senator: What about people who work with children? Does he not see the need, because it is a high priority in this program, to educate those who work with preschoolers completely out of school? Is he referring to the fact that it is intended to be checked for help rather than to discuss the matter specifically? Is that what it is? A senator is talking about rather than assuming that the subject is discussed openly in a way that is appropriate for the age group? I trust the teacher well, I have worked in that field myself, and I know that they are fully capable of doing so, and I don't talk about that if they get the support of the training and study material.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u43	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer is Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. That is exactly what we have on the pages of this magazine. 4 of the Committee's Committee Department, by permission of the President: ▪ The EEA welcomes part of the program on education for workers in preschool schools, which specifically aim to discuss child - school violence... There I would like to encourage the whole system, as it were, to be careful because, according to the senator's talk, these information and information are already available, including. in the evidence she mentioned earlier, not to teach, I suppose. A senator said his name. School instructors and teachers at previous high school today have excellent knowledge and grounds to view seriously advanced issues. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I think that the path that is carried out in this suggestion carries a considerable risk of panic in these children. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u44	Mr. President. I was like others sitting here in the council hall in the middle of nowhere surprised at a talk. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason of Oli, and I simply didn't understand where the senator was going. I would have loved it if he had, for example. Consider only what lies ahead, i.e. The matter itself. It presents a most striking expression, such as why. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir went over here, was an educational material to staff members of a nursery school and to the children themselves suitable for their age and development. People aren't getting ahead of themselves there, anyway. That is where we have our best specialists to do material and therefore get to the staff and playchildren who truly need such instruction. As others have mentioned here, children of all ages are subject to sexual violence. I'm sorry. I reviewed it in my talk earlier that we have a high percentage of young people, and this is also shown in the report, which suffers from violence before 18 years of age. Hv. A senator was concerned that children would lose sleep because of anxiety over the environment. Some may lose sleep, but there are also children who lose sleep and who are unable to sleep for years after being subjected to sexual violence, people who cannot sleep for years. I think we should be more concerned about these people. It's very interesting to me. paritaprevir The middle party, Kolbrún Árnadóttir Year'sdot, isn't here in the Senate Hall with us. It is one who writes under the majority opinion. She's not here to give a speech. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: Is it the Central Party policy, or is it just for individual members of the Central Party to oppose us for this kind of assignment? [[The president calls.]] Maybe I wanted to get that straight.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u45	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir for the answer. Now, I don't know what it's like for the Agency, but we all have freedom to express ourselves on the subjects that we would like to share. I don't make any comments about that. paritaprevir This is what Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, a member of the Central Party on the Health Committee, feels this way. I am free to express my feelings as I think about them. That is the answer to the question. In case of a moment. A senator comes up again, of course, she is free to take that discussion or not, so it is said that the study will be in line with the age and development of those before the presentation. Counts 'em out. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir that the severity or presentation of the material that has been used for presentation in play schools and elementary schools on climate? They are now discussed in this context. The descriptions of the state of mind of children of high school and elementary school age, when they describe their concern about climate matters and their inability to sleep and that the world is passing away, do not suggest that human efforts have been successful in adjusting that information flow with regard to age and development.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u46	A respectable president. It's starting to sound a little compulsive. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason's son about the environment. My question was simple before, and certainly the senators of the forward party have the freedom to express themselves. However, I would like to know what the Central Party's policy is about sexual and sexual violence. What's a class policy? Clearly, individual senators have only their own opinions, whether they are on a committee that deals with the matter or not. What is the course of the party in these matters? I'm also very surprised at the conference's discussion of the environment. Where does the Central Party stand? Does this class not recognize the changes that are taking place on a global climate and its consequences? Are humans called denialists or what they are now called? I think it's interesting, and I'd like to know everything. Finally, Mr. President: Training is essential, as I said in my speech earlier, that we violate the silence that has tolerated violence for centuries and that she needs schoolchildren to have as much as others do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u47	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir It seems that Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunsdotttir didn't listen to my speech earlier where I actually said, by permission of the president: In other words, it is very important to fight violence, which, of course, includes sexual abuse. - Just to answer a question. Senator. Then I'm gonna have to wait for this shit to go on like that. A senator shows here when she asks the person here if he is a denial. In the historical context, the word denial has been used preferably for those who denied the Holocaust in their time, as disgusting as that approach in reasoning as it can be. But to call out the denialist who raises doubts about all the most intense discussions and attacks of a certain group, concerning which all is in force here, and for the lost world, of course, there is no answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u48	Mr. President. First, I want to describe my joy with this synonym, which includes measures to further the prevention of sexual and sexual violence and harassment. In addition, the proposal will follow, which is very positive in my judgment. The preemptive measures being made are based on progressive training at every school level in cooperation with health care, vacation home, and social centers. We know the saying: It teaches the children to whom they are being taught. Therefore, all instruction in this regard is of utmost importance. The responsibility is not just the school system; it is especially the parent. We all know that. I'd like to mention this in particular, since we've reached high school prevention. According to a reference to the proposal, high school students consider sexual violence to be common and take place within the walls of school. Of course, it is very serious news, and it is important to take hold of it firmly. I specifically decided that educational material will be cooperated with students to ensure that education will be the most effective. Under these circumstances, it is very important to have students in charge of the educational and preventive measures required. They know best what works in these substances. In addition, there is talk about prevention in sports and youth service and other activities. It is of utmost importance to my judgment, and we know in connection with the #methoo revolution that very bad things have happened in the sports movement when it comes to harassment, sexual harassment, and violence, which is quite sad. In addition, the committee proposed that we have effective consultation with those who engage in youth, sports, and leisure activities. In the same way, it is very good to have such a good cooperation and to promote all such education. But I only wanted to come on one thing, although it may not have something to do with this, but in an indirect way, i.e. sexual harassment at work. It is equally important to put forth effort to teach people at work about violence and prevention in that area. It seems somehow placed in the hands of employers, executives in companies and other things, whether or not they are. These are matters taken care of by the workforce, but there is no way to take care of what needs to be protected at work. Unfortunately, especially after what was discovered in the #methoo revolution, there are many examples of the workplace's simply allowing sexual harassment and violence to prevail at certain places of work, not taking a note of the experiences of the endurancers, and even uncivilized workers. But despite the positive effects of the #methoo revolution, there is still a culture of silence in this area. It's just a fact. I'm going to take a little closer to that later. Sadly, though, the process of handling these matters is often defective and self - defeating. It is then a problem that not nearly all events are reported. The reason is often that those involved are often afraid of their future at the workplace or in study. Some women who report sexual harassment or violence at the workplace have been forced to quit or threaten to give up. Of course, that is unacceptable. I hit e.g. As the European Union's statistics discuss sexual and sexual violence and harassment, one in five children suffers some form of sexual violence. Of course, there are enormously serious numbers. It is statistics that UNICEF brought together, which is an established United Nations organization and is doing a good job. But here, too, many women have reported that after reporting sexual violence, sexual violence has simply been forced to quit jobs in the UN institutions. In fact, one well - known film of sexual violence in the United Nations has been made, so we see how many people are involved and how serious the problem is. However, it is important for an employee who has been subjected to harassment, harassment, or violence, sexual violence, in the workplace, or who is knowledgeable about it, to inform the employer, and to trust that this will be followed up. The 2015 Commission on action against harassment and violence at work stresses that within each workplace, prevention and measures against such practices are involved. The question, though, is: Is it being followed properly? There's something I think should look at. And in connection with this matter, where we discuss prevention in the school system, it should, of course, be further expanded. Under the Regulation, a professional worker should make it clear that harassment, harassment, and violence are prohibited in the workplace and are obliged to avoid such activity at the workplace. I would like to consider whether it is just as necessary for governments to take the lead in promoting education and prevention at work. I mentioned the work force earlier in my talk. The ideal agency to promote and promote prevention, e.g. with instruction and training, and making sure that a professional will provide appropriate improvements in the work environment when appropriate. The workforce, however, is not determined by a judge to see whether harassment, harassment, or violence have taken place. I think we need to strengthen this institution so that it can fully care for the prophylaxis of work areas, which is truly necessary. Mr. President. Some time has passed since the beginning of the #methoo revolution and the consequences are still to be seen. This country has undergone operations. In order to form all classes at the General Assembly went to a #methoo convention where the headline was #metoo and politics. She was quite successful. So there was a great awakening in society following the #methoo revolution. It is vital that we counteract these deeply entrenched ideas with increased education and ongoing discussion. There seems to be some success in the community. Apparently, the community was not ready to open their eyes and admit the problem sooner. That's a sad fact. But with the arrival of #metoo there was a platform for stories like this, and women can tell about their experiences from work on their own terms. They're being listened to and listened to, hopefully, I think we can say that. Whether this is enough, however, we do not have enough information. To maintain this, it is important to keep up the discussion and regularly revise procedures. With increasing awareness and public discussion, major milestones have been reached, especially with the arrival of social media. I'd like to pause for an interesting analysis of a section of #metoo women's novels made by a few students in psychology at the University of Akureyri last year. They suggest that sexual harassment thrives within all the groups examined, preferably in verbal form. I would especially like to mention films and stage arts because these articles were especially bad. When women's stories in this sector and in this field are examined, and in this same study, it was found that women in that profession and in this field, stage arts, and film studies, are greatly harassed by their superiors or colleagues or teachers. The harassment of officers was prominent within the school system, where teachers misuse their power with students, such as film and stage art. In addition, directors may fail to respect their actors' boundaries in order to achieve their own ends. The stress of colleagues takes place in the labour market, i.e. in the theaters of the country, and we take movies or TV shows. We place a lot of money and raise money on films, which is of great economic importance to us. Should it not be demanded that specific preventive measures, prevention measures, and effort be taken to eliminate these lesions, which appear to be particularly prominent in this sector? That there is a need for increased funding in this sector to follow some kind of effort to handle these matters, since governments cannot see that there is so much sexual harassment to students in this article. If there is more sexual harassment during play - art studies, it can be seen that there were, however, stories dealing with harassment in the Drama School. The film school and Iceland's art university were involved in 11 of the 62 stories reviewed by the #methoo Revolution. It showed that the boundaries of the female students were unrecognized and that attitudes in many ways were distorted when sex and violence came into play. These are amazing accounts of film - making and acting classes. Some teachers seem to have twisted ideas about sex and sex and sexual abuse of power that misused students in a sexual way. Here, for example. one report by psychology students at the University of Akureyri, which says that where teachers are more powerful than students, they misuse their power, or as the report of teachers and their harassment to students says: "No one is trusting to say anything because people are worried that they could possibly damage their acting career because the industry is so small. These accounts are naturally tragic and show that men have power over women and that they oppress and misuse their positions of authority when they are in the position of the teacher's position in these articles. It makes it easier for women to keep quiet and not to comment on harassment, as it were. Mr. President. I felt it necessary to establish this because all school schools are covered with prevention. These special articles require special attention. At the same time, it is announced that if women are to survive in this world, which is the art sector and the movie sector, they need to learn how to become interspersed with the culture that thrives within the theater world. It's amazing to hear that. The government is to demand that this situation be handled firmly. It's completely unacceptable that this is the way it should be handled within the institution, the educational and educational sectors, such as the movie sector and the acting sector. It's in my mind, and it's also my input into this discussion, that it's not just necessary to teach children and students. From the stories mentioned here, we can see that the bacteria are adult people in positions of influence. It is so necessary to teach people that such conduct is not going to be tolerated and that it is distressing. I would have liked to see that this fine proposal would be further extended and that we would be making a special campaign at work, as well as with those in the school system. Then I mean the teachers, who clearly need instruction, as they all need instruction in this regard. Mr. President. Finally, I'd like to say that I celebrate this synopsis proposal. It is an important step in the right direction, and hopefully we will succeed in doing so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u49	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying something with a what. paritaprevir The request of the Birgir of Þórarinsson regarding what he withdrew from his speech. That is true, sexual abuse, and all forms of sexual harassment forever focus on abuse of power. It is always a force, and in fact, it is always a person who is in some position of authority against those who are involved in abuse. I'm not going to stretch my paw. I'm coming up here to declare the support of this case, although I'm afraid that the financing is uncertain and that it could have been handled better. I think the need for this is underestimated. I think it is very important that well and professionally be taught, and that will always cost something. I don't think that this is the least of my interests for men because I think it is lacking, especially for young men, good role models, good sense of identity, healthy self - identity, and good teaching them to respect themselves and to respect others. I think that in young men, especially young men, and maybe men of all ages, they fall into the habit of teaching them something contrary, teaching them violent behavior, teaching them abuse, teaching them to use power. I think there needs to be some kind of counterweight. This issue, on the other hand, involves children who suffer violence and the violence of children. Both groups need instruction. This does not mean, however, that these groups need the same education. Some misunderstandings were involved in this sermon earlier, that it was some kind of inculturation when children are taught about violence, that they are involved in some form of violence. But the fact is, there is always a certain part of children who are affected by violence, either in their immediate environment or elsewhere. It is very important that children who experience such things learn that this is not normal. Violence is not normal. It's not their fault. Violence is not used because children have encouraged it in some way. They have boundaries, and they have their own bodies. It is very important that they have someone to talk to about violence, and it is very important to talk about it, that there is no silence because in silence violence flourishes. I don't agree with the spokesmen of the silence community, which we sometimes see, i.e. those who argue that it is best just to keep quiet about things that may be unpleasant to face and uncomfortable and difficult to talk about, whether it is a matter of violence or a climate problem. On the one hand, we have a group of violent children who need instruction on the subject of violence. However, we are talking about violent children. Sometimes it even goes together. Children are the ones who sorely need gentle instruction and guidance. True, it is very difficult to do so, and when it comes to doing so, it is very important that professional people be there. Violence thrives in silence, and the more we talk about violence, violent behavior, the more we bring it to light, the more difficult violent behavior. I believe this matter has fallen to drag us along in the fight against violence.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u50	A respectable president. I did not intend to give a speech. I did not intend to give it a talk. But after hearing a talk, I could not resist. 4th, including Witchest. " Bergþór Ólason's son, who I don't really want to make a special subject, but she made me think that there are a few things in this matter and violence in general that I think will be helpful in a little discussion. Now's the time. A senator not in the hall to defend himself if I say something out of harm's way. I'm going to try to be reasonable, but I can also base my opinion on my experience in discussing recent violence and being part of this community. Thus, in the case of a growing, respectable president, violence has suffered in Icelandic society for an enormous amount of time. When the so - called #methoo revolution occurred, I was not surprised by the nature of the fractures, but by the volume. That was an indistinguishable amount of them. I remember sitting at a meeting sometime and being the politician with an opinion of everything and everything, and I was listening to it and I was gonna stop. I didn't know what to say. Such a lot of violence has been tolerated in our society. But there's a reason, a respectable president. She's not good, but she's real. It is that when culture follows some behavior, it becomes overwhelming and oppressive. It will be strange and bold to relate something that society is somewhere in its subconscious in a way that has been approved. I wish no one the experience of having to report violence, but it is, like, many difficult experiences, valuable lessons. It teaches you what happens when you hear about violence. Then there can be great denial because people love the violent man. The violent person is not necessarily a bad person in all his life. All kinds of people use violence, often unintentionally because their social, social, or personal boundaries are not clear or because the person feels that he is simply entitled to something that he is not entitled to. It is also an overwhelming social attitude to this day - but smaller, you seem to be, in comparison with the favorable discussion - that people alone have the right to another person's body. It's enormous, I mean, much more with men than with women. But that is true of women too. In a speech earlier, why not? 4th, including Witchest. " Bergþór Ólason, into an old line that always rises up when violent issues arise against minorities or underpower groups. The line is: Shouldn't we be against all violence? Of course, we are, of course, violent people. Same thing happens in the United States when you put it on the social services of #bllivesmatter. Then there's a wave of people who say 'all lives matter', i.e. Any human life is important, which is, of course, true. But there's a fundamental difference. When the less powerful groups or minorities need to become attention because of the problems they face and have had to work out the years together, there is always something else to focus on. It must be an intolerable, respectable president. Can't we just talk about the status of the colored people in the United States and solve these matters and focus on them and do something about them? Can't we just talk about violence against women and solve it and do something about it without also spreading the concept? This does not minimize other forms of violence, but when is it to be dealt with? If I get punched in the stomach or my face in a town I'm assuming I can go to the police, and I expect her to take me seriously, after an incident, and to admit that I've been broken. Women have had to live with it from the beginning of civilization, and probably longer, that they may in some way be treated as property. Why don't we talk about it, solve it, finish it, make it clear? Because it affects all of us. Hv. In his speech earlier, a member of the body of elders reviewed the training they received to the children. He wondered a little about it, if I understood him correctly, and again I am trying to be reasonable, he was worried that it was a scare but not to teach young children about violence, and should not trouble them in their relatively carefree life with something like this, pointing forward to the climate and mob talk and the like. I thought it was an interesting point, and I've been thinking about it here in the councilroom ever since. I'm trying to be fair, but I don't get this to fit in my head, this worry, except by thinking that it's not that big a deal, that it's just not as big a community problem as it is. I have the same opinion about the climate speech. The only way I could somehow get closer is that we're doing too much of teaching kids about the climate problem is not taking it seriously. I can't put this in my head any different, respectable President. Maybe that's my mistake. When we are going to solve such deep and deep - seated problems as the community's view of violence, especially sexual abuse and other factors, it is not enough just to set rules, laws, and processes. There is also a need for a change of mind. Therefore, such discussions need to be discussed. It must be a sincere desire for each one to have the right attitude. Pushing the green button when this case goes through is not going back. When we detect violence when we teach our children that they have their bodies, we understand that they do what they want to do to their bodies, for it is not likely as it is. It should be, but obviously it's not. Here, many might comment on some of the informative words that have fallen into the community over the years, but I felt that it was a problem. A senator earlier reflects the need for the discussion, not just to set procedures, laws, and the like, as important as it all is, but to think that society has to sort out the past somehow. I find it interesting when such topics are sometimes called delicate ones. If I'm punched in the belly of the East Field at three o'clock Saturday on a drunken day and I go to the police it's not a delicate matter, a respectable president. It's boring, it's lame, but it's not fragile. I was violent, and I'm going to get my hands on it. The difference between people in that situation and victims of sexual abuse is that sex offenders have in the past come to terms of failure to take them seriously. If they are taken seriously, they will not be able to investigate, and if they are involved, then they will not be able to judge. This is the difference between dealing with sexual abuse and all violence. It's like the difference between having dark skin in the United States and having bright skin. There is a difference, a respected president, between these two experiences, these two situations, and we should acknowledge the difference and overcome the problems that spring from human beings and are relatively prejudiced as animal species. All people in my opinion are prejudiced, they are just as well involved in doing something about it, making up for it, meeting it, or realizing it and the like. After the #metoo revolution, a lot of the complaints in the community that nobody could be hit on anymore. There's nothing left to show up and need permission for everything. This emphasizes exactly how deeply this is in our community. Many well - meaning people, they're not bad people, they're just people, they're literally not the difference between hitting on someone and harassing someone. It's easy to be shocked by this and just say, "It's crazy, we're great because we think something else. It's no big deal. Everybody can do it. However, it is difficult to change our attitude, this deeply entrenched, deep, ancient attitude. After all, this is a view of how a person looks at other people, what can be done, and what to say to another person. It's a conversation that I think is very useful in various areas. I think, throughout history, Icelandic culture was a strange combination of intentional thinking to the individual, but in the same way, the metropolitan thinking that most Icelanders are familiar with in one way or another. There is an idea that other people should do something. This person is supposed to do this. If she doesn't want to do what I want her to do, she owes me some explanation. This is an overwhelming figure in human relationships, especially violent relationships, to demand an explanation for something that does not need an explanation, and that is what needs to be taught children right away, in my opinion, but, of course, with the expertise of a weapon. It is this fundamental point that we own ourselves, and we do this ourselves, what we do, and only ourselves, looks like. It must always be based on informed consent. Now I try not to just speak a talk. The senator's subject is discussed here, but he cannot help but mention the matter. A senator compared this with the climate change speech. Then I began to wonder about the connection. She's up to it. A senator meant that children were being intimidated by doom - day forecasts on climate matters. Perhaps there is a point, but then the talk and answers came to the fore, and then it became apparent. A senator doubts about the interfaith that sometimes appears at the Council, at least all the threats, the climate threat. Then it suddenly began to be a reasonable, respectable president. That's when I realize you're worried that you're being taught too much. This happens if you don't take the problem seriously enough. I don't think it's really easy to take violence and sexual abuse not seriously enough because it's so much violence that isn't visible until some heroes step up and report it to the extent that society can't ignore it anymore, and that's what happened with the #meto revolution. In my opinion, it was about far more than sex abuse. It was about this fundamental principle: We should not keep quiet. Similarly, she showed that it takes courage to share it with others. This is social, even legal, consequences. Similarly, people need to be able to expect that when it is violated, they will have some right protection and can look for something. They need to be believed in the systems, the police, the justice system, the lawyers, and the media. They need to have faith that the problem is taken seriously. Therefore, it is taking a very positive step today, taking these matters seriously, more and more over time, which is a very positive and very important step in the development of civil rights and how we view individual rights. Sadly, history shows that this is not likely. It's not born. It needs to be discussed and pointed to. They need to be taught when they are young. Finally, I don't want it to sound like I'm critical of a man's case. Middle-class, I want to take my whole mind under your speech. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, in particular. She was very good to me. It is not my goal to minimize speech. Senator. It seemed to me that there was a need to discuss the matter even more, openly, and slightly from cultural principles rather than from law. To say that, as a respectable president, I have otherwise talked to the committee about the matter, so I'll finish it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u51	V.E.G. President. First of all, I'd like to be happy to know that this proposal for Congress is back here. The commission states: Its aim is to eliminate all forms of sexual and sexual violence and harassment from the Icelandic community. This is a lofty and large objective, and it reminds us of a slight non-employment of Iceland, which has been a pleasure for many since when it is a serious matter, just as it is a serious matter. I now feel that at the age of my life, I feel that in the past violence, especially sexual abuse, was a Tabu, they actually were spoken of as not known in Icelandic society, they didn't exist, just abroad. A similar viewpoint was actually in place about, e.g. domestic violence was not to exist in Iceland. Then we wake up in a bad dream when violent scenes creep onto the surface, and it becomes evident that all that was held in the past was raised on the sand. After all, Iceland and I were no better than others or in a better place in these matters. This suggestion should be welcomed for good reason. Not only is it now that a fine report was made when we were engaged in a term called Icelandic # I too. There was an excellent report and an excellent analysis, including of political violence and harassment, and to that end, I felt that the report or the reports were more accurate than the recent report that really needs to be discussed. But this report contained, for example, the following: Don't try, at least not as I've read it and understood it, to differentiate between the challenge and the violence mentioned. Here at the General Assembly Hall, at the workplace, or if it was outside the workplace, exactly as it were, threats and violence were observed toward family members or family members who may not have come from this area. We need all of this because we need to know about circumstances. We need to try to get in a position to understand the situation. I kind of felt like this was missing from this latest report. But there are many things we need to improve in this regard. It is spoken of specifically of instruction, and then I have to admit, Mr. President, that I miss the fact that I called for it, on the earlier discussion of this conclusion, that the representatives of the church were to be called in. I don't see, in the committee party that follows, and I don't see in what is said here, that it was done. And why was I talking about this? Yes, I talked about it because I've held that the fresh instruction, when children are being molded very fast, should e.g. ... todothis. Then I'm talking about not only being on behalf of the church but also on behalf of my partner's philosophy of life, i.e. Children's thresholds are to be introduced. I say introduce but don't teach - study that limit and consider the consequences of crossing the line. I don't think it's unnecessary. Here are excellent examples of situations in which those with superiority use those who are less effective, either, or even violent. It has been said of teachers and students, head of business with subordinates. There have been significant references to stagers and not to unforesee. I think maybe, and I'll agree with that as a matter of course. paritaprevir In his earlier speech, in opening words, the Hrafn Gunnarsson's shrine said that you have not come to realize enough of the prevalence of harassment and violence and that it is virtually everywhere throughout society. It's, for example. one kimi - because we don't say'sector', Mr. President - which is a challenge to disabled people, especially women, who are naturally apocalyptic disgusting conduct. Unfortunately, however, it has not been quite possible, apparently, to be effective in this regard. I would also like to mention that it has not been simple for victims, e.g. Sexual abuse to share their reports with the authorities, i.e. Police authorities, E.B. In fact, the last few years there have been a very good job of increasing the population of police officials in the city of Reykjavík, who have an accurate knowledge of this field, and then have been established as a Björk crisis, which has proved to be very good, a foreign role model; it is what is called in other countries as a monopolitan station to tell its history, both professionals, police authorities, etc. Sadly, all of us, especially young girls, have not received the welcome that would have been desirable, and I also mention the problems they face, which reveal in their infinite lengths of time for treatment. These girls have had to tell their story repeatedly, perhaps over a period of two to three years, which has made it possible for them to return to building themselves up again, if we can put it that way, i.e. was able to complete in some way the disaster they experienced in order to be able to rebuild. Sadly, this period of short - term treatment and the inadequacy that once occurred in the past have caused them to have a very difficult experience. Then there is a natural threat that is becoming much more prominent in our time. The Internet entices children and youths by means of false stories and fables. We are not achieving, apparently being, effective in dealing with these wrongdoers in particular. Then, in fact, there's something else, Mr. President, which is quite obvious, that you seem, i.e. in the cases of sexual abuse that have been reported, it seems that a person has to take a major offense in order to obtain a prison sentence, not just a definition for 12 months or 18 months, or something like that. You may seem, this is not scientific, President, it is based on the fact that you have been reading the obituaries and observing what is presented in the media on these issues, that the penalty is not fully used. Without being a very punished man, I'm more sympathetic to a wrongdoer than to a perp when these issues arise and I think we could in ourselves, by taking all these matters together, will be more effective than we are now. Of course, it is primarily about that each individual takes responsibility for himself. It is in itself a very good rule of principle taken by summer entertainment on the east side of the coast. There's only one rule that's held high. So that they may enter into that entertainment and be there, they will agree that they are not foolish. I think it might be good for each person to act in a way that doesn't make him look like an idiot, as it says. But it's a very simple rule, Mr. President, and I think it can be adopted in itself if they put forth effort, even if they are poor men like us many. Of course, all of this begins with our introduction and teaching. That's why I'm going to say again that I'm sorry that my previous discussion suggested that the church be called, did not become a reality. I'm sure it might benefit, and I'd like to trust that when this case comes forward, and when it comes to working on what is suggested here, it will come true. In fact, it gives you certain hopes. 3 says, with the permission of the president: The Commission points out that in the programme there are responsible providers as well as partners at each operation. As a result, there is no exhaustive list of partners on the basis of individual projects, and it encourages the committee to make the most extensive consultations with institutions, instructors, and organisations involved in prevention and education activities in order to make use of available knowledge and experience. That's where I'm still going to name the State Church. We have also received reports of harassment and violence in sports, a youth's career. It is natural that we must take very seriously because sports and sports work are essential for the prevention of both life - style diseases and even for children to be led into irregularity. If parents and guardians cannot trust that their children are secure in that type of work, we are all in danger. Of course, there is a great deal of trouble. I'd also like to mention it, but it's not mentioned in this body of Congress and maybe not quite a reason, that in Britain, and it's actually started in Canada, the authorities began to take on sexual offenses differently than they used to, and began to point the lights more to do to a person than to be tolerated. I remember that five years ago a district attorney in Britain, a fine woman, whose name I don't remember, stressed that this would be done, and the police authorities began to apply it to a greater extent than before - I think I had this discussion before and then at the highest level. A president who's sitting here now. However, they believed that this policy had led to an increase in conviction. Now I don't remember the proportions, but they were terrible. In order to travel a short route, I recall that at that time, I guess this was not about 2014, about 60,000 women were raped each year in Britain, but conviction was 1.100, and it was ripped apart because it wasn't nearly all the cases in court, many were dismissed. But the point was this: 60,000 crimes, allegeds, and 1,100 convictions. Now I haven't seen the local district attorney's report before 2018, but it wasn't the last time I checked. But somehow I got the feeling, at least from the 2017s, that the situation here was even worse. It is natural in so many ways, especially for victims or victims of violence, who are not even confident that they will act and charge because they have seen through the years the court will bring an end to the trial and that even fewer cases will lead to condemnation. But of course, Mr. President, this suggestion is very narrow, and therefore it is good, and it is necessary. We need to take what evidence we're getting, not just clues, but the information we're getting, especially in this crisis here, very serious and respond in a decisive way so that we can finally achieve the goal here so ambitiously, to eliminate all forms of sexual violence and sexual harassment from an Icelandic community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u52	A respectable president. I noticed in a talk a lot. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson specifically referred to the situation of disabled women; they find it difficult to get a violation of them approved; and they are more likely to be sexually abused or harassed than are those who are disloyal. So I want to ask you why. A senator whether he believes that the subsidiary of disabled women and disparaging talk to them in public and elsewhere could contribute to the poor women's situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u53	V.E.G. President. I think it's quite possible that it might be, that such things make the object of women who are disabled worse. But I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we need to be careful in our discussions, whatever the case, and wherever we are. I think we need to be careful. But I am convinced that it may well be having an effect. I also think that it is the lack of defense that we create in this group. I note that these women seem to have been violated, especially. in travel services and other public services, where there is close association between those who render service and those women. There must be a great deal of effort to succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u54	A respectable president. It's nice to hear that. A senator believes that the neutralization of disabled women and disparaging speech toward them can help to increase this lack of defense, as he did in his previous answer. I also cut down on the speech of a man. The senator said, by permission of the president: each individual is to take responsibility for himself. Similarly, he referred to the good order that Estna flight has long held: Don't be an idiot. So I want to ask you why. A member of the council how well he considers his party and his fellow members to respect that order in view of the monastery's so - called and disparagingly remarks that fell especially at that meeting and the behavior thereafter. The members of the Central Party have taken responsibility for themselves and decided not to be an idiot.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u55	V.E.G. President. The comment as long as possible. A senator refers to women who fell into a bar in the area where they were not in danger of losing their share, since the senator specifically asks for it. It's been shown. I do not intend to sit in the judgment seat before others to see how they have walked, whether before or after. I draw attention to this, since this matter is being discussed here, which is the natural subject of a long discussion that I'm not going to pursue here, that two of this group disappeared from the council for some time. They received a gift from the so - called ethic committee of the council. I don't know what else to say about it, except that I repeat that, of course, everyone is to take responsibility for himself first and foremost. Søren old Kierkegaard once, with president's permission, said that if the world is to be changed, they should start with something closer, i.e. It's itself. But as I say, I'm not expected to judge others for something they've done or for what they're supposed to have done. I don't think I'm around. However, those who believe that this is what they do naturally, and they are likely to do so in a good conscience.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u56	President. It may be nice to review, before I review the committee's opinion, more part of the management and monitoring committee, the need and the reason for this legislation. I'm sure that many of you have opinions about the exactness of these laws and those rules, and I believe that this will be the subject of the discussion in which I am represented by many individuals. the remainder of the section that will report its opinion on this subject, also presented in the Committee's list of my parts. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee. That's right, because a man sitting by a candlelight at his home, drew out how a bill to act on defense against a conflict of interest would appear, and I'm not necessarily sure that it would be this exact if each of us were to sit on that candlelight. This is a job that starts with a GRECO tip. This is a work being done in the work group of prime minister on the promotion of political trust, which involves a lot of business, including these matters here, and is to take to heart the factors described in the bill itself in dealing with stakeholders, stakeholders, lobsters, and other factors. This is what we all know, Mr. President, for it came to pass when the case was spoken in its own time. I just wanted to review this for us before we begin our discussion on the Committee to consider more part of the management and monitoring committee. I'm not going to read it here, Mr. President. It is available to all who want to learn about it. However, it is proper to state that we were contacted by the committee by a number of visitors who gave reviews. There was general support among the reporters, but there were conflicting opinions. Some sources felt that the bill was going way too far; it would be too repetitive to their own operations. Others felt that it was going too far. There would have to be a lot more information to collect. There would be a lot more public information, even more detailed than GRECO has stated in its own indications, etc., as it happens, and has virtually every language we represent here at the General Assembly. There are differing opinions on the subject, yet there was general support among the reporters. The rest of the part suggests a few changes to the bill. The more part of it feels that the important thing is to listen to the process everything we've described here, or to me--I'm not really talking about myself in the phone number, I'm not quite there--that I've just crossed and respected it and looked around to see that this is actually starting a new system. Such a system must be tried and seen how it works, and then can be cut off if necessary, which, of course, is not necessarily clear. The majority also looked forward to having rules about ourselves as members of the council. We felt that it was inappropriate that we were demanding further and more strict regulations from people in the administrations than we require of ourselves. Someone may feel a little difference, not money, which way will be the first to demand changes in others and then make changes in themselves. It is my firm belief that if we believe that something should be in a certain way, we are under obligation as lawgivers to first examine ourselves and change what is present to us before demanding others to comply with stricter rules than we ourselves. President. In view of all of this, the changes made by the majority must be considered. The gift's money was turned into. Even there was a number of them. See if the criteria are 50,000. it would be true, if there should be some reference, or how it should be, but also whether some requirement needed to be met. If the amount of money for a gift is 50,000, can many gifts be added and accepted without having to count it? For example, how should the value of a gift be handled just below that, or 49,900 C.E.? The majority suggest that the period is reviewed, that, on a yearly basis, the amount of donors should not exceed 50,000 dollars. A significant issue was discussed with the Court of Information. The bill specifically states that a particular activity under which there is no need to publish information should be published under no circumstances, and thus the relevant staff would be excluded from the information rights. The majority suggest that it should be authorised for Ministers to publish from the registry the information collected with regard to office manager and ambassador in exceptional circumstances. We thus meet to some extent with the view that not all of them are to be excluded from information rights. But as is often the case when viewpoints are being met, the highest demands were not applied either way. There was an idea from the Committee on the need to hide an independent observer to monitor that the standards of the bill are being followed. The bill suggests that the prime minister and his Ministry general counseling and monitoring in connection with the regulations of the bill. It suggests that the prime minister and his Ministry can decide to consider cases where it is suspected that the terms of the bill are not followed in the case of the highest executive and assistant minister, with the exception of the stewards, because their responsibility for office action under the laws of the Minister's responsible. As mentioned in the bill, the initiative issue may be due to a tip, e.g. from the public to the Ministry, media coverage, etc. If the findings of the Ministry of Presidency indicate that a violation has taken place, the Ministry of Presidency is expected to report the results to the partner of the Ministry, who has the authority to employ the staff rights of penalties such as reminder or resignation. In the case of the highest executive executives and assistant ministers working at the Ministry of Presidency, Prime Ministers weigh the potential for such action. It must be considered preferable to hide the Ministry of Presidency as the above notes show that the issues under which they hear and other similar tasks, but this arrangement must also be in line with the coordination role used by the prime minister and his Ministry, in the general board of directors. By hiding such a committee to a degree, it would be to meet the demands of inferiority and the independence of those assigned to monitor the standards of the bill. In this way, a certain court-security principle may recommend the establishment of a more objective committee than the requirement for an Commission to be independent and independent is often associated with the aim of promoting therapy and the result is based rather on objective views as well as to prevent suspicion of a foreign view, e.g. ... ofa group of anti-Septitistics, have been in charge. Nevertheless, it should be noted that in accordance with current legal conditions, the role of such a committee would be only perfunctory. It would still be for the Minister of Staff, who has a law against mastership in the understanding of the civil rights to respond, after the incident, to employ the employee's employee's legal law, if it is found to have been broken. So the majority do not believe that it is a reason to suggest that a special monitoring committee should be set up with the regulations of the bill, but that its implementation is like any other operation of the administration under the supervision of various independent parties, such as the Council agent and the head of state accountant. If a minister of the Ministry of Presidency who supervises the law was in violations that a minister instigates, he can consult the World Council's agent, such as Article 18. Act of the Allegorium agent and the CDC's Protection Act. They were then presented with the committee's views that documenting the value of interest was somehow complex. Someone thought she was burdensome, and some thought she was so mean that it was absurd to bring her on. The bill defines interest prices as individuals who speak in private terms to governments and endeavor to influence their work for employment. The Ministry informed the government that the announcement was valid to those who come to work for stakeholders and whose work would be counterproductive to the government. In particular would it be those who have such social connections, private and attorneys, as well as the employees and representatives who have such and comparable activities. The majority do not consider it to be a question of who falls under the announcement. Eight. The bill recommends that a minister be authorized by law to set up more detailed regulations on the implementation of the law, including the criteria for when protection of interest is required to report itself and its role. The majority of the shares are directed to the Ministry to further update the reporting regulations with the objective of the bill, i.e. To ensure that there are some personal interests involved in dealing with government officials, such as those mentioned above, in the case of others. Also, there is the possibility that the announcement warrants - this is not a emotional duty, perhaps some of which would be advisable - will not become too burdensome to protect from interest. As I came in earlier, both in the reviews and in the committee's meetings, the view prevailed that this was not to be too burdensome. President. Seven. The bill is suggested that a record of interest prices be published to the public on the board of the board. According to the Federal Protection Center, the development of personal information had to be compatible with the principles of personal protection and the processing of personal information. A clear defined and grammatical purpose is required to include the processing of personal information, as well as the use of personal information beyond what is necessary in relation to the purpose of the process. Enrollment of personal information and their public release include two separate processing procedures. It must be ensured that each industry is in line with the laws on personal protection and the processing of personal information. Although the registration of information on the social security index and the work station of interests can be done for a serious purpose, Perconte assessment may well be subject to the public release of such information. Their display may be beyond what is necessary for the purpose of the revelation to be accomplished. The majority listened to these Persian protection views and suggests changes in their viewpoint. It was also addressed to make it clear when the information expected to be published on the board of directors' website should be taken from the official publication, i.e. reports should be made when the individual is no longer caring for the interests and the information will be eliminated. The bill suggests that there will be a clearer set of rules on the registration of the interests and stakeholders of the European Commission. In the bill, the term "Environment " is the term" the highest executives of the European Commission, " which refers to a minister, the Ministry of Ministers, the office manager and ambassadors of the Iceland Management Board. This term was discussed in the Committee. According to the Icelandic board of directors, each member of the European Commission is the head of the European Commission and is responsible for the administrative activities of all as detailed in the law, as per a few paragraphs in the Republic of Iceland's constitution. According to the Committee, this is not consistent with the meaning that the Icelandic government ship puts in the term to agree with the manager, office manager and ambassador who operates under the direction of a minister. Their position simply will not be compared to the minister's position. Therefore, the greater part suggests that the term will further be used by the highest executives, rather than the highest executives of the European Commission. There may seem to be some platypus, Mr. President, but in fact, the bill refers to the highest executives of the European Commission, in order to reassign the majority of them to the change that this refers to the Supreme Rulers. Under the committee, the writer listed here, Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, was a prominent and prominent speaker. The men of Berunh the son of Níelsson, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir's daughter, Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Egl, and Óli Kárason the son of Kál. The majority suggest that the bill will be agreed with the changes included in the Committee of the greater section.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for history. I'd like to talk to you for a second. A member of the council on this matter of the committee. We have received the matter ten times on the committee's program and have welcomed many visitors, as it were. A senator came in handy, and let's finish this discussion with a book on both sides. In a book or something. One authority, with President's permission, says: "A position was not achieved on every point, but cooperation does not work out that one party will get it all. To call it determined will for conflict is either due to the thought that it is natural to get everything that is possible or that it is a very creative use of the language. Then it is to be noted that no one representing the smaller section, the chairman of either the committee or anyone under the book, contacted the chairman of the case in order to make changes in the direction of the committee after they were introduced or, in fact, ever in the treatment of the matter. Now this isn't my experience with this happening, Mr. President, that we've never made any changes in this bill. [[The president calls.]] Is it creative use of the snarl? A senator in the language that he was not e - mailed? Or is it not enough to mention at committees the changes that the lesser part wants to make?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u58	President. It's a pleasure that we can be discussing our books with each other at a committee meeting here on this important subject, but all good. It is no more creative use in languages than then, President, that I consider contacting as anything other than going to the hearing at a committee meeting. In case of a moment. A senator puts another understanding into his relationship, and we simply disagree there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u59	A respectable president. It's okay to get this straight. I just think it's important to film it because I thought it was somehow unnatural that we were making it up that two meetings had taken up the focus of the committee's memory were written in a way that we hadn't sent out yet. Councilmen e-mail. I didn't do it because I thought that was why. A senator would not be receptive to any changes in this bill based on the memory of the part when the latter opinion of the section had been presented. It's like I remember the treatment. I think it matters, a respectable president, how it was handled, that's exactly why it makes rules about the highest executives of the government, and then it matters to make a wide deal of peace with it, and then the work around it matters. That is why I felt uncomfortable saying that we had nothing to do with the subject, as if it were possible to read from a book. Senator. Is that wrong with the person here who says that in time? A senator had presented his opinion to the committee was not open to the memory of the parts to make some changes?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u60	President. I must continue to admire the creative use of the language. Now I don't have this book on hand, I'm sure you're saying we're discussing what really matters, which was the subject of this bill. But, hey. A senator corrects me if it is not in memory that the number of comments in the section was taken into consideration. Yet it stands why. A senator up here tells me that in my book, I was told that the memory had nothing to do with it. On this matter, as with countless Senate matters in every session, I have shared in working with them as an authority and also as a representative in my part, listening to the point of view. Some are taken, some aren't. It then suggests that they are viewed as primitive and that they are either caught up with or not, at times they are changed, sometimes not. The only thing that stands out in this contribution I know to is that the memory is so offended that he has to make a special book about it. [[The president calls.]] I've never seen that before.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u61	Mr. President. It matters what comments are made, not because they fulfill some vanity in the smaller section that did not get their way, but because we consider this to be important. That is why I would like to mention things that I did not mention by e - mail to an authority in more parts but, rather, in a formal way, at a meeting of the committee on April 27, May 4, and May 20, when the committee was found. It has to do with 5. The bill on the selection after the official work. In this regard, it is extremely important to add a group of employees who are in all other aspects of the bill, which are reserved for cooling times for interest. There are assistant ministers. This is the largest group this bill is about. This is the group with an equal number of less damaged events in the Council of Control, and this is the group that, in one eighth part, goes directly into it, the first post-helper's work, to work in the interest of interests. Why didn't this get in? It's not about sitting by candlelight alone and making a bill. It's about the basics of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u62	President. You're absolutely right. A senator did not take all the comments of the section into consideration. It's new for what's happened. A senator doing the work? I'll tell you, Mr. President, what went in of the comments of the memory of my parts, because although it may seem that I didn't notice at committee meetings then it was exactly that way, without me breaking my faith and specifying exactly who did. The members of the minority suggested what, in fact, it's written as well. They said there was a need for help inside. It was said that members of the Parliament should also be joined by a mate. It didn't get in. That was simply a disagreement. There was talk of an independent party. I went over it. No, it didn't get in. It was said that there was a too early ban on the release of information. We got it. There's been talk of assistants here again, I leave three agents each. reduction of fraction. They said that they should not separate an ambassador. We got it. Information to be collected e.g. A mortgage. It didn't make it. As you can see, Mr. President, a few of the comments from the memory of the section were made. That's it. What's abnormal about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u63	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the tour of the loophole that reached from the smaller section to the greater part's opinion. But what I was asking was one of the major issues, that assistants are a exception to the 5th period of cooling. The bill. Hv. The head of the greater part knows just as well as I know how important this is. He knows that after they finish their work at the Board of Directors, they have a vast tool box. They have become very qualified in their work with a large network, which is quite natural for them to use, but it is only natural that they have some rules, as is stated in Article 5. The bill. I know this, that the Senator knows as well as I do because I've been an assistant, so come on, and the senator has been working under the interest of the people who were helpers with me at that time, attending men who did their jobs both as helpers and as supportive defenders with due respect. Is it not reasonable for that group to fall under here?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u64	President. It was interesting to me, actually illuminating. A senator would call the points I gave a shepherd. The fact that there is not an unscrupulous release from the information table is a loophole in the mind of that. Senator. That gifts cannot be grouped together so that they reach a well - rounded peak is slying in the mind of the dog. Senator. The collecting of more information than the bill expected, tux. I think I know, Mr President. A senator feels that this is not really a flattery. It seems to be less than that. The management and monitoring committee is very hurt that not all his comments went into the bill, that not only did it need a special account, but it's all that came through called a lubricant. I don't think that's a good way to work. Obviously, it tells itself that of what did not go in through the memory of the part's comments, the majority did not agree with the smaller parts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u65	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for measuring for this committee party and taking us through it. There are some questions that arise, and I think I don't have time to ask all of them. But I'd like to ask you why. Senator: In the 3rd C.E. it refers to extra jobs and lists a few jobs that seem to be somehow more welcome, those who write the bill or plan to accept it, as well as other professions. Why are these professions listed, humanitarian work, teaching and learning, scientific research? Why not carpenters or lawyers or something like that? I don't really see the difference because all these parties can easily have interests on their side, so we just nose it. Why are these activities especially listed? Then I'd also like to ask the senator about 5th. par.: If anyone missing from work has a three - month notice in the state, will he still have the right to receive this six - month pay if necessary?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u66	President. I'm not going to dig deep into the minds of those who wrote the bill to answer a question. Senator. This was discussed on the committee, why these activities are set up in Article 3. That's not a complete reason I can give you why. A senator for that. But I have to mention what follows. The senator, by permission of the president, listed: It will not affect the work of the European Commission and the pay for the extra work will be modest. A request for annuity should be given within 30 days of the time of the transfer. So this is not a complete list, President. Rather, it is an example of work. My time is up. I'll have to enter the second question next time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u67	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answer. What bothers me is that I feel that some special job is being made higher than anyone else's. I don't think that's necessary. I don't think it's necessary to have this list. I just have to say, with a certain experience, there are no more people in these jobs who are pressing on to do something, not at all. It comes out of all sectors, so we'll be good for it. I wanted to reiterate the question I had earlier about those who may only have the right to a three - month salary from a resignation or some of the things that fall under it, whether they will receive it during the six months. Then I think that it is also tempting to ask if people have dealt with interest groups and their employees, since this is not clear enough to my knowledge. In fact, it is reported that this value is strictly not on interest groups except their employees. I think this could cause some confusion, when big interests or little people are talking to those in charge, whether it is the individual or the interests involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u68	Madam President. For the second question, as you considered, this was also discussed within the committee, that when the chairman of the stake union, a member of the interests body, comes and meets a minister, it is simply published in a diary, and there is nothing to be done about it. This is where they are being looked, with the permission of a president, known as the Arabians in foreign lands. With regard to the previous question. The senator realizes that this is six months, i.e. they are forbidden to become stakeholders for six months after the completion of their work for the European Commission. If I understand why. A senator is asking about it. It's just that it's clear what it means, and it's not supposed to change what's going on up until then, i.e. Just for six months after they finish their jobs. Who are described in paragraph 1? And the same as in the 4th. gro, but let's remember that if the change makes more of it. The administration and monitoring committee will be approved, not by the highest executives, but by the Supreme Rulers at all times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u69	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. One authority on whether or not the matter has been discussed in the treatment of the committee is the experience of various laws and regulations that have been established, which are actually comparable to these. I mention, for example. A legislation laid in 2011 on a new law on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland that contains a number of factors that would be designed to increase transparency and confidence in the public's work at the Council of Government. I also mention optional rules set out in 2018, in the history of this government, on the registration of helpers and Ministry Directors, who seems to be most interested in this. I feel that there is a lack of publicity in the bill and in the opinion presented here, on the experience in these topics and on which there is a need for the bill we have here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u70	President. Yes, at least some of it was discussed. A senator specified here and the fact that assistants have made good use of public display of their interests even now that it is not a law, although it is selective and it may not be found in Congress documents. The motive and need to be adjusted. I took it to her at the beginning of my speech earlier. These are certainly comments that have revealed that we do not have sufficient registration in this regard. One of the things that were also discussed about experience is the experience of other countries of the Akkat: How is this in the United States? For example, in which there are strict rules about how to list prices of interest approaching an elected agent. What's it like in the European Union? Consider another example. This was not a detailed discussion of evidence and examples or such. to contacts that have had to register, e.g. to the European Union, as a price for interest there. I see I've been looking for an extra minute here, so... [[It's over.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] - Guð takes what he gives right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u71	A respectable president. How happy I am at that point! paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé has the initiative to refer to the United States in this regard, so I don't have to do that. That's exactly what I think of most of the time when I read the lyrics on the price of interest, I think it's pretty American. However, it seems that there are some foreigners among the left people in Europe who are applying various rules for the United States these days. I have much to do with this matter of interest, but I might find out later. But since the assistants are very busy, I wanted to wonder here only that the bill assumes that there is no information about assistants, office managers, ambassadors, and others, and is referred to the Constitution and viewpoints there. However, the majority of the members in this section have been turned away from this, especially those with special attention to the relief workers. I feel that there is no need for a further administrative discussion as to why men feel that they are willing to have special assistant rules when the bill writers have appreciated it so that specific requirements of the constitution will lead to others.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u72	President. It's very common to mention the highest. The Generals know about the executives and the pioneers they present to them. Obviously, we do not agree with what was reported on by the bill authors with regard to assistants. We thought that it would be appropriate to give them special attention in this regard. I mentioned the United States of America earlier, what? A senator for a lot of fun. I was canceled by an exhaustive list of countries or regions with similar rules and laws in some form of interest registration because in many parts of the world this is the most natural thing in the world. Economic defenses are the most natural thing in the world, but part of doing it is having it all recorded and on top of the board. Then the organization, business, people, individuals simply register as stakeholders and walk in it with open eyes, and everyone else that they are now making contact in an effort to have an impact on the interests of the mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u73	Mr. President. I explain the opinion of my share of administration and monitoring committee in this case, but not by the way that I read it all through, it's quite long. I encourage people to study their contents in writing. But I'll be the best at what's going to happen. It may be good to start with putting this issue in context with the recent developments, not just in this country but in an international way, because of conflicting interests and defenses against their negative effects on public decision making, or just the fight against corruption in the public is a struggle that takes place in many places. In terms of politics and administrative matters, it is important to maintain the confidence of the public in the relevant institutions. So in order for us to be elected agents, or officials who serve as ministers of their minister, to show a democratic supply of respect, we need to be able to obtain more and more intimate information today, but perhaps not so long ago. I've found it helpful to view this bill as two issues, related cases, but in a way unplugged. Another issue is communication with stakeholders and particularly this relatively new class of interests, people who work primarily to speak the language of the different interests of the administration. For this factor, the bill aims to set a clear framework for how such individuals should be enrolled and how to document it when it is to be treated by governments to fight for the interests of the time. As for this aspect of the bill, I would say that there are several single minds in the administration and monitoring committee. This change is enormously important to realize who have tried to influence policy development. In fact, the Commission's review of minor fixations was provided only, preferably technically, the majority of the committee's bodies are being affected in their adaptations. However, another part of this bill is a greater part, and smaller parts are more conflicted. It is the part that has to do with the person sitting on top of the administrative board, the person of the minister, the person of the secretary of the ministry, the person of the assistant minister and ambassador, individuals who can have personal interest in their property or debt of how to smell things. Hence, it is important that the clear state of the world be the means as far as possible. The bill aims to develop a programme for such interests, where, in addition to documenting debts and property, gifts and other benefits that people offer for their status. Then there are regulations about the people, the individuals in the highest administrative order, regarding the selection after the completion of the work in the interests of the government. This is what is sometimes called a cooling time or a spinning spell. In this case, it is that for six months, after the top-level team leaves the management board, it is prohibited from becoming stakeholders unless it receives a approved special release. This has been discussed earlier today as to the lack of solidarity of change proposals. There I would like to name two as the largest and others. First, in a smaller part of the administration and monitoring committee, we feel that it is important to implement the surveillance and counsel with the rules to be set in the hands of an independent monitoring committee. The bill suggests that the prime minister will do this, but it is in the committee's opinion that there can be a problem, e.g. Does the prime minister not necessarily consider it a responsibility to tell other government officials for a job because of the administrative obstacles involved in consulting, as well as those that the prime minister can hardly monitor himself or his closest associates. In these matters, it's also so much about how we not only create a system that works but also how we create a system that shows that it works. An independent surveillance committee is simply a more trustworthy party to monitor the conflict of interest. In the memory of the section, we suggest that three delegates attend a state - of - interest surveillance committee, that the prime minister ship her chairman without a form of appointment, and provide the commission for the necessary positions, but in addition to that, the committee will be appointed to one committee of state requisitions, which is already a similar role for political and financial organizations. The third agent will be nominated by the National Institute of Moralology for the University of Iceland. The important thing about this is that we also create a system that can develop much better than if it was within the Ministry. Therefore, we recommend a provisional review of the law after three years where it will be specifically considered to see if this monitoring committee can be taken on a conflict of interest and expand its role so that it covers the General Assembly. In this way, the rules and checks that apply to all the representatives of the nation can be harmonized. This is of great importance because we personally know that a follow-up with the annual registration of members of Congress may be of little importance. They'll get away with letting the registration expire quite a bit. There are other factors that are not clearly controlled. For the government's decision in March 2018, e.g. The requirement that ministers begin to publish parts of their programs publicly, that is a very positive step in favour of transparency. I made it a game to go to the Board of Directors this morning and see what the latest update to the open program of each minister was. The latest program was from the Environment and Resource Minister prior to a period ending May 15 or before 18 days, which is considered entirely fine. But then the overview begins to drop a little bit until we reached the most indistinguishable minister who last proposed a scheduled period, which ended on December 20 of that year. It's been 165 days since. It's a matter of choice, isn't it? There is no monitoring of this, and if there is any surveillance, it might be at the Presidency Department that clearly needs to kick the butt only at the highest. Counsellors. At the same time as moving the surveillance to independent parties, we put in a smaller section for increasing collection of information, that more will be recorded than will be more flexible in the publication. It is now in the bill that the highest hands, those of the law, will be obliged to report property, debt, debt responsibilities, and other responsibilities, etc. Despite these regulations, they are not obliged to report debts and responsibilities because of their own use or the use of automobiles or loans or credits to banks if there is a sum of less than 5 million, or a donation, or a beauty if the value is below 50,000 bucks, which is the largest contribution to the price of 50,000 dollars. This year, so 49,000 times cannot be repeated. gifts to get past this. The reasons why certain debts and responsibilities should be excluded are immunity. In the memory of the section, we agree that in this way we suggest that such information will be avoided unless the review board considers that the public interest requires that it be kept secret. Then we suggest that each reference should not be fixed in a text as a result of the administration of 50,000 k. Today is not the same as a 50 grand present. after a few years. Hence, it is reasonable that this threshold should be addressed simply in the Committee's work rules. The majority agree with these views regarding the possibility of repeated administrations below the limit, but if we put ourselves in the position of someone with a firm fragility, someone who just wants to cheat the system, all of this article's requirements need to be taken under the same category. Consider, for example, an apartment building. Suppose, for example, a financial agency offered to lend interest to someone who falls under this law a loan from an apartment building for their own use of terms that are extremely different from what the public offers. On the surface, this is simply an apartment building for its own use as the bill makers and more part of the management committees believe that it should be protected for privacy of privacy. However, this can be an enormous financial advantage to the person involved and could create a great deal of interest in the individual. Therefore, it is important to change this from being a fixed law that this information should not be recorded and presented, as suggested in the smaller section, to the fact that all is recorded and then assessed by an independent review committee as to whether or not anything might be wrong. With regard to those who are excluded from registration, it is appropriate to agree with the viewpoints reflected in the greater part of it that the secretary's assistants are obliged to record their information, such as the Ministry and Ministers according to Article 7. The bill. I would like to read the evidence support of the greater part of that decision, with the permission of the president: In view of this political role of assistants and their close relationship to the minister of authority, the greater part of the public's interests is that of being able to learn about their stake relationship outweighs their right to privacy. I agree with this, so completely that I would like to apply this also to assistant selection after work at the Board of Directors. That's the other big thing. An independent surveillance committee is another major factor that, unfortunately, failed to be included in the proposals of the majority of the Committee. The fact that assistants are going under the contingency rules of Article 5. is the other big thing. For the sake of full transparency, let us first mention that the person listed here was an assistant in 2010-2013 and thus well knows what the greater part says; the close contact of assistants to ministers' authority is immense. There is a tremendous access to information in the council. Supporters are mostly in the same position as Ministers and Ministers when it comes to obtaining information and developing links within the Ministry and out of it. The only difference between these groups is that assistants do not have formal authority within the administration. They do not take governmental decisions unlike the others, but that is the only one. I am amazed that the greater part did not agree with these views, which he does with regard to another parallel article. This too is especially reprehensible, since assistants are expected to be the largest member of the group involved in this bill. When I was an assistant, there was only one assistant to each minister, and then they increased steady steps, and now each minister has two helpers and another the government can have three helpers. For example, when ministers are e.g. 11 There are 25 of them. Not all of them are sitting there for the entire season, but they all go to other jobs after the season. So we could surmise that there may be 40 helpers in each term that would pass through the Board of Government and turn to other jobs. We've got numbers that show how many go into business in interest. A study of assistant ministers between the years and 2008 showed that 13.7% of them went right after their retirement, i.e. Their next work after serving as an assistant was with interest groups. There are no new numbers, but I would think this ratio would be the least to reduce in view of the increased number that goes through the Ministry. In view of what we mentioned in response to the fact that it has become more and more common to establishenterprising enterprises that have no other role than to be a interests officer or a public relations firm, which, at the same time, often designed people with this precious experience that the assistant makes people available. As noted earlier in the discussion, there is no bad concern in itself. It's about making sure that as many of the views get to the table where decisions are made. But it has to be clear. That's why we're making these laws. Hence, it would, of course, be necessary to appoint helpers as one of the groups in general that should not go directly to interests after completing their duties. But if they choose to do so, then they need a special release. By dieving the assistants from that law, there are probably very few people who will be included in this law because I think the statistics will tell us that the Ministryers, office managers, ambassadors, rarely leave their jobs to start working as interests while we know that each assistant is doing so. The basic point may be, how did you put it? The traveller's part of it, that if we sat to candlelight writing rules like this, this wouldn't be the thing that came out of our pen. But if we'd talked to a board of directors and patrols... and discussed what was going to happen, it wouldn't be what's coming out. In view of the lower part of the administration and monitoring committee, we're going over a number of things, but these two are at the top. On one hand, by saving the surveillance of the prime minister rather than of an independent monitoring committee, as we suggest in the smaller section, an active surveillance will not be ensured. There will be no doubt that political viewpoints have some control over decisions taken in the management of interests and interests. And by divulging assistants of the spindle law, that law is almost empty, it's just chaff, without inspiration. The adjustment proposals we make in the smaller part of the team are moving toward this and now covering just two pages, but they're based on nothing but this; an independent committee, which makes more of the data available and is independent and flexible in what to publish, and then the assistants, the most likely one to go to work as interestskeepers after the government's work, under regulations. I just think that these changes are quite reasonable. They are not extensive. It would be very sad if the council didn't use this opportunity here and now to make the changes this bill says it's doing, because without accepting the changes in the memory of the part, everything the bill says will be pretty flat.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u74	A respectable president. I notice that in the hall there is no more agent from the greater part of it. The management and monitoring committee, which lets you know that I am holding up its signal by making a reply. A senator, whom I thank for a fine and good speech. I might be able to ask, in the spirit of saying something. The leadman of the greater part earlier: Are you hurt? He realized that this was mainly a matter of hurt feelings and hurt feelings. A rejection and thus something similar. But I'm not going to get into it. I'm gonna pray. A member of the council on how to reason with me only on how it might possibly be possible that more things could go wrong. The committee should not lend interest in dealing with the helpers and the tycoon arrangement. Why is that? I have to admit, it's a mystery to me. I don't quite understand. And maybe this related thing, I don't know: Could it be that having been a minister's assistant is for someone of the best age perhaps one of the most important things you can have on your CV when you are applying for a job with a interests organization?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u75	A respectable president. I'm kind of as surprised, as a lance. Senator. I don't understand why the majority of the items don't agree with the smaller part of passing the assistants to the warp policy because I've been in that position. I know what helpers are allowed to do in their role. They are simply an extension of the minister. And if we're making rules about what counsellors will allow after they resign, I think that more often than not, they should apply almost automatically to the minister's assistants. What Is the Cause? Yeah, I think you're right. A senator mentions. Being an assistant is good at your CV, but it's also very good experience. That is why the helpers often find their way in a commission, often in Congress. We are eight former assistants sitting at the council today because we have tools for working within the administration. We know the system well. In the role game at the beginning of the enemy's game, the question arose. Senator, in a spirit of shock. If I were hurt, more part of the transferer. I'm not at all. But I would have expected so much more of this case's merchants because a toothless curved saying is worse than nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u76	A respectable president. I must now confess that I am in my part here; I have never been an assistant myself, but often I would not have received from an assistant. Consider an example of a politician who for some reason loses his way to money and even becomes dependent on someone, not necessarily a financial institution, but perhaps a rich man for financial support. This politician may then be in a position to make decisions and to influence legislation and even a minister, receiving payment from a rich man who, in turn, has access to this politician through this payment. It's just an imaginary example. As it is now, as it is prepared for the knots in this case, would it go under radar? Is it secret?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u77	A respectable president. Such a course could easily be hidden. It really depends on how the knots are done. What is not required to report is debts and responsibilities to credit institutions if the amount is less than 5 million. So the payment could be no more than that, unless, for example, the wealthy in this imaginary example lent. from automobile to car for personal use, from house to house for your own use, from student loans. By allowing debts in this area, the sum of more than 5 million is available, and there is a serious danger. It's not just a risk in this bill. It's something we need to check on the Senate interest logs. I simply feel that we can begin to shape the rules in this bill so that the laws that take over the highest layer of government will be clearer than the rules we have for members of Congress. But they will likely be revised for the next winter by a review of Parliamentary ethics. In addition, there is nothing wrong with the fact that there are different rules about e.g. Senators and Ministers. In many lands, the basic principles apply to members of Congress apply to everyone. Then there are additional procedures for ministerial servants because they simply have more responsibility because of their position in the administration. They can directly interfere with matters that concern people's interests, who, as with the senator and me have already smelled in this imaginary example, may be at the back of them at any price.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u78	A respectable president. We're discussing a very important matter, which is certainly a step forward and a long time. I'd like to start by saying thank you. forebearer of the minority opinion of the story. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson did well to review the information we have in the smaller section, along with the roughness. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, has only held up. I'm going to try not to be too much of our committee opinion, where there is a reason. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson did so well with the viewpoint found there. First, I'd like to discuss the importance and need of this law. Why is it important that there are laws against interest issues in the chief executive executives of the Iceland Board of Directors and the highest executives, as this is now supposed to be? First, I would like to refer to the report of a member of the Prime Minister's staff, of the increase in political trust. I will take hold of the report, a respected president, because the bill has a certain origin in some of the facts presented in that report. It also contains much information on the importance of this law and the importance of many of the adjustments we make in the smaller parts. First of all, the task force report says by permission of the President: ▪ Faith and trust in politics and government are based on the fact that the common people can believe that politicians and officials do not misuse their position. This is key. That's what these defenses are designed for. It also says, by permission of the president: It is the part of political and administrative politics that inspires the most popular hostility in society. It's true, and it goes on to say, by permission of the President: ▪ Civil justice (which often seems reasonable) that elected representatives or public employees misuse their own position in their own interests or their own interests - or are linked in a way that allows them to be dependent on one way or another, even on their authority - to accuse them of corruption and generally promote a cynical view of public decisions. Thus, the government must act in an effort to prevent unprovoked suspicions of the spot of interest and at the same time recognize the nuclear threat that the common citizen sees as the basis for this in the political and administrative sectors. Such suspicions may lead to even an attempt to increase the transparency of possible interest issues and requirements for interest registration appear in the public as an effort to the contrary. That's why, a respectable president, we in our smaller section feel so important that this bill is powerful. That is why we are concerned that monitoring the bill is blunt, that the result of it may be, as the report says, that it will appear to the public as an effort to the contrary. That's the whole point. A respectable president. A report by the Prime Minister Prime Minister (MAH) stated that in the OECD guidelines on how to react to conflict in interests, it is not recognized as such a pattern of corruption that conflicts between private interests and official duties of public employees can not be taken into consideration. This is something that we are retraced in Icelandic politics, the last in the Sami language and the highest relationship. A seaman minister to a man in that. This is about the need and purpose of this law. Why is it important that these rules exist? Why is it important that they be trustworthy? Why is it important that the continuation and monitoring of these rules be trustworthy? This is to strengthen the public's confidence in politics. This is to strengthen the public's confidence that incontrovertible viewpoints will not lead to decision-making and policy making of the highest government. That's the point. While the objective of the bill is to protect against conflict of interests, the higher purpose must be to build confidence in politics. Therefore, and in the smaller parts, I strongly suggest that there will be an independent follow-up on these rules. Contrary to what the bill and the greater part suggest, the Ministry of Presidency is holding on to surveillance and registration, and all possible for these rules, it will be the independent administrative committee who carry this important role just to strengthen confidence that non-proper viewpoints are not going and also to provide a length of arms to come back and think: they may have a different view than those in power. It is also made clear in a report by the National Institute of Morality, Mr. President, that it is possible for all of us not to be influenced by abnormal interests in their decision - making. It is only human nature to believe that it is entirely possible to overlook any conflict of interest. This has been shown in the case of the Supreme Court. Secretary of the sea that it is very difficult for him to tell the difference when he is speaking to his friend, Þorsteinn Már, or the secretary - general of Samherja, Þorsteinn Már. It is only in human nature difficult to tell the difference, and it is also in human nature to believe that you can cope with it without allowing an indiscriminate view. However, this is the basis of interest logistics, monitoring is required and self-monitoring is required. A respectable president. In particular, I find it very critical that there is no standing to monitor the correct registration of a government minister. In fact, it says in the Commission magazine of the greater section, by permission of the president: Then it is suggested that the prime minister and his office be able to consider cases where the regulations of the bill are suspected not to be followed in the case of the highest executive and assistant minister, with the exception of stewards, as their responsibility for office action is being carried out under the laws of the Minister of Ministers. This means that there is no independent surveillance and no supervision of counsellers and their proper registration, the highest executive of the government. There is no surveillance of their proper registration, and neither is independent surveillance. In this case, I would like to specify that it may make a difference, in the mind of the greater part, who is prime minister right now. I guess I can do that. The members of the greater part trusted the current prime minister, the Katrín of Jakobsdóttir, to handle this role loyally. But it doesn't matter who the prime minister is at one time, just not at all. We are familiar with examples of the highest. Ministers, and especially the highest. Prime Ministers, are mistaken about hiding their own interests for Congress and country, and there are some recent examples of this. So I want to return to the report that will discuss established management and maintenance of political moral standards. It shows that by 2010 ftn.2013, a committee called a co-ordination committee was present on moral standards in the administrative board. It was legalized and laid down after a change of government in 2013. During its hours of work, the committee brought the rules of ethics for the minister, the staff of the Council, and the state officials, and at the end of its working hours, ideas of its continued role in making it easier for the government officials to apply moral standards and, in effect, provide guidance in solving problems in day - to - day activities. However, the role of giving advice in the interpretation of ethical regulations and the solution to moral standards has been in the office of legislators at the Ministry of Ministers since the decision of cohesion. So much for the voyage then. When the then prime minister, Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, was appointed, the committee was laid down, and it has not been resurrected. So it's to keep this surveillance, to keep it, to the same place, to the Ministry of Presidency. In this context I would like to say that I have not felt that the Ministry of Presidency is very effective in maintaining moral standards, at least not since 2013. I'd like to take some examples, quite one example, and it's about to register the ministerial communication. In 2016 a registration protocol was set up in Iceland's Management Board. It comes, for example. It is clear that there should be informal communication with the minister. Two. says, with permission of the president: The Ministry Department of Communicators as well as non-employees shall have a list of relevant information on issues under the department. By informal communication, these include phone calls and meetings, which describe attitudes or information that are considered relevant for the management of a Ministry case or that is considered important for matters related to issues under the Ministry, as the attitude or information does not appear in any of the other recorded data. The timing of communication should be recorded between each person and the content of the information in question. This Regulation has been valid since 2016. But I do know that, and I have received confirmation that the minister's phone calls at the seaside Department are not recorded. That's what I know. I also noticed how the famous telephone call of the then Minister of Justice, Sigrimon Á. Andersen, and then prime minister, Bjarni son of Benediktsson, who was saying that the father of the latter was one of the party members of one of the sexual offenders who had been exposed to falsehood, was not recorded. Yet, there were reasons for making a phone call that protected important interests in the administrative matters. That was why the U.S. Marshal Generalis decided to stop his study, his possible initiative, in this case because this call had been a administrative call. It would have been justified to specify this phone call, an appropriate minister to do etc., but that phone call was not recorded anyway. There were no documents at hand. This has been a long-term problem, and I believe the Ministry of Presidency is responsible for the following rules. But it is obvious that they are not followed. In fact, it was shown in the Ministry of Justice's comments to the Commission's request that the justice minister's phone calls be generally not recorded. So it is a general rule not to follow this rule. This also seems to be the story of other problems. I think that the steps, a respectable president, when it comes to taking some kind of supervision by other ministers in order to increase confidence or increase transparency or make ministers more responsible for their actions, with whom to speak, etc. I like this example. It's not going very well with the Ministry of Presidency to follow up on this. So, of course, as I've come into the past, absolutely incorruption that the Ministers of this government do not, because of their administrative position, are subject to any monitoring of the right registration for that, according to the greater part, that it can be convened as ministers of this government compete to speak down at every opportunity without replacing any solutions. Of course, there are dead resources, while ministers of the present government do nothing more than talk it down and bring no other solutions in return to the way the Ministers are to be held accountable for violations of their profession. I'd like to finally say about the independent surveillance of what is presented in the minority opinion, by permission of a president: ▪ Blocks that may arise in many cases lead to close colleagues of the minister, even so that the political interests of the head office each time may color the results rather than taking into account the public interest alone. Therefore, the smaller part is important to monitor as independently as possible. There can be no doubt that objective viewpoints are involved in the handling of these matters. A respectable president. We have talked a lot about how the assistant minister can use the so - called warp doors, that they can find their way straight out as assistant ministers to the interests of interest. Hv. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson referred to a study that has been conducted with a considerable high frequency of assistants who are going directly to the interests of the end of their duties for Ministers, as assistant ministers. Sadly, that study is from 2008, so there is no actual study on the current situation. But I did find some recent examples of this precisely. For instance, consider Jóhannes Þór Skúlason, an assistant who had a bad heart. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson. He was an assistant to Prime Minister to 2016 and then, in fact, a helper to the head of the Central Party to May 2018, then the director of the Association for Travel in May 2018. Margrét Gísladóttir, assistant to Gullus Þór Þórðarson, became director of the Country Union of Cow Prayer from June 2016 very soon after she was assistant to the minister of foreign affairs. Benedikt Sigurðsson was the assistant to Sigurður the Ingi of Jóhannesson, the highest. The secretary of transportation and rural government, until 2006, became an information officer of SFS in June 2017. Sunna Gunnarsdóttir was an assistant anyway. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, son of Sveinsson, became the head of communications or project manager of MS 2016 information and education, directly from the Ministry of State. Another example, perhaps not a perfect example, is that she was not a minister's assistant but was working for the highest level. Two years of prime minister, Halla Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. She served as an assistant to the former senator, Ögmundur, son of Jónasson, and soon became director of ASI after she retired as prime minister. Thus, it is quite common even today, a respectable president, that individuals go directly to interests after leaving assistant work. So there is good reason to address the bill, and I miss not remembering why it is decided to separate assistants from this rotation rule that we've been talking about in the committee party of the greater part. The majority do not waste a single word on what is unfortunate. Of course, this is a big interest issue. These are the people who are most likely to be looking for them. One authority did not get to answer repeated questions. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's son, except for the lack of solidarity in the greater part of the effort to bring an army of aid under it, which is, in fact, an answer to itself. Finally, Mr President, because I see that time is running away, I want to mention only wood. A report by the Prime Minister on political advancement states: ▪ GREECO also emphasizes that if rules like this work, the consequences, formally or informally, need to be faced if they are not followed. There are no consequences in this bill. A greater part and the transporter of the bill argue that employees can be administered legal penalties to those under each minister. I don't think so because it's not the root text itself. I don't think it's normal to put in repairs the possibility of a reminder or even to lose the job without clearly showing in the bill text that it exists. Therefore, I find it hard to believe that there is a tendency to resort to some kind of penalties, so it would be just for each minister to decide whether or not he would want to use your penalties, that's at least Not clear on the bill at all. That's why I'm sorry that the bill monitoring is at the Presidency Department because of the danger of being blunt, that the penalty is not clear in the bill, and no explanation should be explained why those most likely to look for interests that the end of jobs are excluded for six months of waiting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u79	President. This is a very important matter that has meaning for the work of the highest executive executives of the European Commission, as well as for the face of these same highest executives, and this is as important as it is. It's just like the court order that it needs to work, and we have to make that claim to see it work, it looks like it's working, the system's carrying it. It must require that the administration and administration be guided by public interests and all the services and activities so as not to undermine public trust. But trust and transparency are not to be merely meant to be the goal. Trust and transparency must also be the result. The rules need to establish that the management board is open and clear, that is, the way to strengthen confidence in politics and governments. The bill suggests that there will be a clearer set of rules on the keeping of stakes and stakeholders of the European Commission. Under the force field, ministers, government managers, office managers and ambassadors will fall. Right now, there is reason to make specific comments, and I find myself in places similar to those of others. Senators who have expressed themselves on the subject. In a few ways, the helpers of the minister do not fall under all of the regulations of the bill or its content in all respects. It is equally interesting, considering that the more part of it did not just overcome that point, he directly opposed it. I've come to the case in a very limited way. It was far within the committee when I sat down to a council and began listening, but it was immediately evident that during the treatment of the matter this point was handled directly, and the greater part simply disagreed with it. The bill, with the permission of the President, is listed as being the leading members of the Board of Directors, i.e. to the Minister and to those appointed by the Minister and to work in close contact with the minister and the government. It is very important to ensure that, as most of us from abroad, we do not have the ability to perform the important tasks that are entrusted to them in carrying out laws in a broad sense and in other public projects. Nevertheless, the greater conclusion was that for an assistant minister, his closest member of the Ministry, and his principal political adviser inside the door, his deputy at the Ministry, not all the regulations of the bill. There's reason to stop at that point and what's going on with it. According to that, the bill was a step forward. It's important. There are many good steps, but some of these are frustrations, and some of them reduce the idea that the bill can reach its goal. Another fault of the bill is the check specified in it. That's to me the most important thing. For such matters to accomplish its purpose, it is necessary to make sure that the surveillance is real. I'm worried that the surveillance of the image presented on the bill will be weak, weak in the size of the major item. The observation of the highest executives of the European Commission is according to the bill right there, with these same highest executives in the Ministry of Presidency. I'm not going to argue that this is the way I keep checking, but there's a real danger, and that's what worries me. I also think it is sobering to think that the other part wants to go that way. A weak monitoring system of interest conflicts will simply undermine the end of the bill and will always leave behind the question of why it was not willing to take full advantage of the ideology for which the bill stands and proclaims. So I agree with the smaller parts in terms of criticism of the monitoring of the above rule of action, i.e. that an independent surveillance committee is not assigned to supervise the work being done here. The surveillance would be independent, and this would provide a basis for essential trust in the work done by orderliness. The majority say about this point, i.e. that the independent surveillance officer would be assigned to keep the surveillance in the Commission opinion by permission of the President: The Ministry of Presidency must be hidden from the Ministry of Presidency. However, what remains to be said is that the topic fields under which they hear and other similar tasks are desirable, but this arrangement must also be in line with the coordination role used by the prime minister and his Ministry of Management in general. But when the paper with the bill is read and when you consider the history of the bill, the criticism that the Icelandic government has accepted, the goal behind the bill is not consistent in this respect. The key point is a rule of building trust and tools to achieve that trust is the monitoring factor. It will be much better than natural that the surveillance, as applicable to all monitoring, should be independent and independent, not inside the Ministry of Presidency, as the more part itself says about this, by permission of the President: To some extent, by hiding a special committee of such supervision, they would meet the demands of inequities and independence of those assigned to observe the requirements of the bill. In this way, a certain court-security principle may recommend the establishment of a more objective committee than the requirement for an Commission to be independent and independent is often associated with the aim of promoting therapy and the result is based rather on objective views as well as to prevent suspicion of a foreign view, e.g. has been in charge of a class of antipolitics. I wholeheartedly agree with these words and arguments. However, despite the fact that this can be read in the committee opinion, the conclusion is that this is not a choice. This is sobering, since there may be a situation in which a ministerial servant can be treated as a direct employee. It is unfortunate for the Ministry to be placed in that position, though well worked, and there is certainly no reason to claim otherwise, this shadow will always remain, this face which is designed to substantiate credibility. In my opinion, the size of which the majority of the cells build around the surveillance process weakens the bill and reduces the necessary credibility to be achieved. I think it's a good thing, it's a good thing, it's a good goal, it's a regular work is needed, and here's a good, positive step, on which there are certain faults, some of which are important in my opinion. Such laws require that the surveillance be credible, and for the purpose of building trust.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u80	A respectable president. There are a lot of things in this bill that deserve some coverage and in my opinion more than I think it seems granted in the case of the Committee, in terms of both the majority and the smaller parts. As a rule, we will discuss the motives and need of legislation in a paper with the bill, yet I have wondered what the need is for the case as presented here, especially in the light of the great changes in regulations and implementation of stakeholders that have taken place in the past few years in the Board of Directors, in the whole administration and, as well as at the World Council. Protocols on the registration of stakeholders, e.g. The general members of the council have also changed. This is a bill for the legal defense against interest issues in the highest executive executives of the European Commission. I agree with what is stated in the Commission's section on the changes made in word, that, instead of the executives of the European Commission, there is a statement here being referred to more than a minister - a minister is one of the highest executives of the European Commission - i.e. They're referring to the Ministry Director, the office manager, for some reason because of an ambassador at the Iceland Board of Directors, and then the bill is also intended to reach the secretary's assistants. I mention that there are new rules, new legislation on the Council of Management from 2011 which are in part still in shape, i.e. performs on the basis of these events. There was a major change in the rules applied to transparency at that time, in 2011. With the new law, the goal was to increase public trust in the administration of the Council. It included, for example, the book The Greatest Man Who Ever Lived. Advertising companies and other things. There have been rules in this ideal period for the selection of the interests of the Ministry and the assistants. In fact, I don't really feel that the bill itself is missing, as well as in the opinion of the greater section, about how those rules have proved to be in recent years. It would be interesting to know how the selective registration of the Ministry and the assistants has become, whether they have obeyed it or not. I have a feeling that most Ministry Directors have been involved in registering their interests and assistants, even though they are, and should be, different viewpoints are subject to assistants or Ministry officials and other officials. I'll get to that later. Like many bills submitted by the good minds of those who want to increase transparency and trust, I feel that this bill is to the point of burning that it is as if the bill authors believe in rules and that the registration of such rules is the basis for human behavior as best chosen. And there is also the possibility that there are in force, e.g. Government law, both recorded administration regulations and their unscheduled rules. So it's not that, as would like to be discussed on these matters, there are no rules on interest issues already in the Board of Directors, because there are, of course, rules that humans have come here to try to do their best, I don't know better. Therefore, it would have been interesting to get a discussion on how those rules have proved to be true, such as. the change in the administration board in the late left of the board in 2011, with the goal of increasing transparency. It was there, for example. The Ministry's regulations were set up on advertising requirements to ensure that the Ministry's office would always be advertised unless it was carried out by government officials. You wonder how this rule has been followed, since you notice that two different government directors will be appointed within the Council without advertising and without the fact that they have been transferred by officials in the Board of Directors. However, there are clear rules regarding this and pledges from the time of the government's left and then prime minister, Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, to advertise such an office. We have also seen examples that have been in office without advertisements, agents consulting without advertisements. We know this from an old age, and it has been a long practice for us to temporarily place our posts in order to avoid advertising. But the rules about that are very special. Then we know of the long experience of a series of special projects that are started and given to individuals without advertising, temporary projects. Of course, they are referred to as temporary. We have also seen recent examples of a minister's assistant reporting on such projects, but this has led to the immediate appointment of the Ministry without advertising. All of this is a recent experience despite clear rules involved. It would have been nice to get a little consideration of what experience there is with the rules in force, whether it is really time to set up a bill and set rules about what is stated here if it is not better than I have been stating to follow the rules that are already there. Another example that comes to mind is that here the DA's decision of equal rights is always that the Ministers and even other officials have not undertook the sex's equal law to order in office or employment, mainly orders. A recent example is from today. This happens at the same time that there have never been more equal agents within the Board of Justice, and they have even been hired to work without advertising. I heard you were at the highest. The prime minister believed that the latest one should lead to more trying to do so, and I agree with that. If the problem is that humans have made a mistake, then the right way is to try to do better. She also mentioned that the decision needed to be done better, and she worked to review it. As I mentioned, the emissary agents and those who have that assignment have never been more common, but nothing works or runs. So the question is always: Could there be something wrong with the rules itself, the rules that lead to these endless offenses? Could it be that there is a need for humans to reevaluate only the goals of laws, and the viewpoints that seem to be incomprehensible to humans? Perhaps something is wrong with the rules rather than with the humans who apply them. It's the kind of friendship I'd like to mention in this matter too, that people have to put it only to their senses what the need is for these rules and what the goal is. In the discussions ahead of me, and we're not sure what to say. I heard that when it comes to assistant ministers, men are anxious. I think from the discussion that it may be in such a way that people simply misunderstand the role and character of assistant ministers. In this discussion, there has been some talk about that the helpers are the ones responsible in some way, and it is very important to set similar rules about ministers and their assistants. In particular, I find it interesting to see that the information on a minister is expected to be published on interest logs, such as normal information on earlier jobs, and whether someone else is dependent on financial matters. Of course it's not. It's already published. There's nothing new about it. But here it is added that the same value is for the manager and office manager and for some reason an ambassador. The debate over the ambassadors is burned at the same rate. What is the power of ambassadors? They have no power. Then the bill assumes that the Minister information is published rather than the office manager's information, ambassadors, assistants and Ministry Directors. A section of the Committee's Committee suggests that there will be a change in the bill to the extent that help will be published in the same way as for Ministers. Here I feel that I lack complete coverage over which members of the relief team are under the same charge as ministers. This, for example, is an excellent indication of the nature of the members of the Committee's list of parts, but the results are unsatisfactory. It describes assistants as being political stewards, as being responsible for a ministerial servant. Just that view should lead to other rules besides those of the minister himself. An assistant will be in for a while. He has confidentiality with the minister, not with the Ministry or the hired staff, but with the minister, and this is the minister responsible for the helpers. Similarly, I wondered that if the objective is to increase the city's transparency and rights in this country with increased transparency and confidence and confidence in the administration, why are the separate information about the interests of the office managers and the Ministry Directors and even their employees on a schedule, if I may put it this way, which makes the actual decisions that issue this professional decision? They are the people who issue the rights and responsibilities of citizens in the community's dealings with the Ministry. I think there's a conflict, it's not quite clear what the goal is. If the goal is to increase the city's justice security, I think the bill might be more discussed in that regard. Here, too, the price of interest has been referred to. Hv. In the United States, a prominent authority referred to rules and appears to be lenient today, is not hesitant to adopt rules set out in the United States. Men look primarily to the United States. It doesn't matter whether it's about close borders or not, after laughing for perhaps five seconds, you're quick to pick up rules from there. These rules have been known for decades. There are very wide rules about the organization of so - called interests in the United States. But it's a completely different system from this one in Iceland. I don't know what it's like in Europe, but maybe it's like the Icelandic system to what's in Europe. In the United States, there is a very different environment of interest prices. They even have offices at the Assembly Hall and so forth. So I think that men are overly pursuing American arrangements by setting such rules in our small community, at least without further inspection in this country. That's exactly the kind of thing where you ask, "Wait, has there been a problem so far? " In fact, I remember one issue in the history of the left government, a bill about mixing in fuel prepared by stakeholders. This was shown, and the report was published that it was prepared for interests in the article. It is not appropriate to make such a statement, but the rules of today, which are already there, and even when the bill was written, should be grazed for it, the approach of those who come into the contract of a primer, in a paper with a bill, and so forth. In fact, I notice in the particular bill listed here that it refers to a group of prime ministers who produced themselves in September 2018, without a list of those who served in that group. It would have been in the interest of transparency and in order to increase the confidence of someone, perhaps to reduce it by others, to specify who was in this group, whether they had any value in the service group that gave the proposed legislation of the above. A respectable president. The objective is noble. I agree that men are expected to have as much transparency as possible in all their work at the administration and the Management Board. I must say, however, that I have not felt that there has been a great problem so far, although, of course, there must be a pot broken in that subject as well as others. I call attention to the fact that there is no penalty for this offense, e.g. it should be observed with any value. However, increased rules and requirements for a registration can complicate the matter and simply make it difficult for you to make decisions or even make it difficult for you to make them. There's a lot of extra stuff that gets stuck in this. And in terms of interest, I think, for example, that's what I think. Especially vague of who are truly worthy of interest. I feel that I need to think more about it. I think this would have endured further discussion, not only in the council, but before it came to the council. If the prime minister was interested in these rules, I think it would be a success to consider the matter further in that regard, not unless the committee takes the matter back and considered something further. A respectable president. In short, I feel that men are committed to a secondary process of this bill, committed themselves to making rules about something of no importance, highlighting unpowered helpers, much less ambassadors. I don't want to say it, but I have a feeling that text of this kind and plans for legalization in this sense is controlled by some sort of misunderstanding, I don't mean to say envy, but some kind of misunderstanding about the nature of a particular job in the administration and administration board. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u81	A respectable president. Hv. A senator gave some examples of rules that have not been successful in recent times, e.g. On the basis of equality issues and on the registration of Ministers and Others. I can make the senator happy, since this is a failure in the opinion of the less part of the committee by moving the surveillance to an independent committee, which I think is a very good way of meeting the senator's concern that the rules will be blunt. If self-monitoring is independent and has more comprehensive sources of data collection and criticism, the whole process is more likely to be more beneficial. In fact, the same can be said of penalties. I agree with the senator that it would be desirable to see some kind of penal code on the bill. Here again, we should point to the lesser part that suggested it. However, regarding what the senator says is a misunderstanding about the role of council officials, I would like to point out that the two senators who have discussed these matters today, the one standing here, and the other. paritaprevir The Þorbjörg of Gunnlaugsdóttir Gunnlerddóttir, has both been helpers and is well aware of the work involved. At least I hope I didn't understand what I was doing during the three years I spent at the Ministry. But what I said wasn't that help would have caused, as the senator said, but that relief workers would not make decisions but would have access to all the information and contact that ministers have. That is exactly what is stated in the bill's report, the network, and access to confidential information, which is the reason for the rotation principle, not whether or not people are taking control decisions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u82	It's a good thing to do. Councilmen refer to one another as honorable.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u83	A respectable president. I'm in that position, like a cot. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, knowing the duties of the assistants, but from the point of view, he served as a minister with assistants on my side. Hv. A senator cannot deny that the role of a deputy in the Ministry is anything but the personnel of the Ministry, much less the head of the Ministry or the office manager of the Ministry. The assistants are expected to come on top of political grounds and to be secretary and minister in trust is responsible for their helpers. I dare say that most ministers must ask their assistants before they hire them what interests they may have and need to be informed of this, of course, and of course they need to inform their ministers about it. But to balance them with the highest executives in the Council of Government makes me feel completely ignorant and confused as to the nature of these tasks. They have access to contacts. You may learn something, and anyone involved in the ministry, such as other jobs, may learn a lot of things. And this is specifically stated, and they admit that relief workers often enter the Ministry for a short time. To place restrictions on such activities would, of course, help to reduce the possibility of getting helpers to join them in that time. I ask a different question. Wouldn't anyone rather look at what I've sometimes called the inside-instigation of the Council of Control? It's the people on the plan who see what's going on, who see what they're going to do over the next few weeks, months, and years, who know what evolution is. It is up to this time to cram these manufacturers into the process as experts with their minister, and shortly thereafter it takes on independent counseling. [[The president calls.]] What about those people, the people on the plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u84	A respectable president. Hv. A member of the body encourages me to discuss the role of assistants who are different from the members of the Ministry, which is literally what I said, both in my answers, in my speech, and even in my reply just now. However, like us, assistants have what they need. A senator has said both here, access to information and network, and that's in the bill's report for the perpendition, not of decisions made within the administration, but of information and network. Hv. One senator said that the need for this adjustment is unclear in view of the trend that has taken place over the past few years. I wanted to ask about it, need only to frame it better in time. If I'm not mistaken, we agreed. A senator more than two years ago, a government contract that went out of writing this bill. It speaks of the need to review the rules of interest registration, which is what is being done with this bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is it true that the senator has left something here? [[The president calls.]] Has the senator changed his mind since he accepted this government covenant? [[The president calls.]] Where's the misunderstanding now?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u85	The president also reminds us of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u86	A respectable president. If the network, the fact that people meet people in their jobs, is to stop people, place some restrictions on where they work later, then I'd suggest that they have to look into more members of the Board of Directors, in consultations, than helpmakers. Go all the way down to the floor to those who make the real decisions. Hv. A senator named an independent surveillance agency. Of course, it's something I think is a misunderstanding too, that having an independent surveillance committee solves this case. Then I ask, Who is guarding the guard? Someone needs to be careful of the committee as well as its independence and conflict of interests. I haven't changed my mind since I signed this government contract that these rules should be reviewed. I believe it is very important to review the rules of interest logs, especially the interest registration of judges I had planned to provide a bill that changed the rules, set them because they are missing for most judges. [[The president calls.]] I think there's good reason to review protocols on interest registration but this bill doesn't come up with any problem, believe there's any problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u87	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen for the transmission speech. I found a lot of interesting points in that talk, especially in terms of what we are making the rules like if they are not followed. I've often said that if no one is invited to follow the Ten Commandments, there's no point in having the 20 commandments, and that's how I feel about it. A senator in this regard. On the other hand, I am just trying to figure out the interaction. A senator makes it a point to ask, " What is the objective of the bill and meditation? ' A senator says that there may be something wrong with the rules, not with the people who are always breaking the rules. A senator points in. I find this a very interesting story and a very interesting glimpse, that if it doesn't work out, then maybe there's no point in the rules, or there's something wrong with the rules. This may be lost because of what is being discussed. We don't make rules that people can't be raped just because the rape continues in the community. Some rules, however, may seem a little useless, especially if none of them are involved. This led me to review a particular point that I asked for explanation from the beginning. A senator when she was the highest. Minister of Justice. I sent a letter to the management and surveillance committee requesting information on the registration of the justice minister's phone calls due to the review of the case, and it was reported in the Ministry's answer from October 6, 2017, that the justice office's phone calls were not specifically recorded. There are now rules, regulations, and laws that state the registration of phone calls. Is this one of the rules that are completely useless? And why?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u88	A respectable president. I took an example of new news today of the highest. A minister of education would, as it is said, have violated an equal law under the order of the Ministry. The story is based on the decision made by the Committee on Equal Opportunities. Actually, I don't know the decision, I don't think it's yet officially revealed, but it's been referred to as one of dozens of cases in the administration board and in the management system with this conclusion. I find it quite reasonable to conclude from this number of cases that men are generally intent, as it was said here at the council, to violate the rules of gender's equal share in an order of office. I think much rather that these great numbers testify to the law on this mountain, the law on the qualifications of candidates for position and other matters, to be just a failure, at least their conduct on the behalf of committees like the Commission of Equal Opportunities. I think everyone must see that these matters need to be examined, and I encourage the council to make such an issue happen when they come up in a hurry and take the initiative to examine these legislation and others involved in it. Hv. A senator asks me about the registration of council calls. I don't know what the rules are, that a minister doesn't see for himself to record calls. Yeah, this could, for example. Be a rule that no one will follow. No purpose has been placed here, thrown into the discussion, to ease a discussion, and no one ever follows it, a meaningless rule.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u89	A respectable president. What I'm referring to is a Regulation from April 15th, 2016 set up by the prime minister and based on the Council of the Management Board and acting on the rules for registration of communication in the Iceland Board of Government. I'm referring to this because it seems that it is accepted practice that the Minister's staff do not record a minister's phone call, despite the fact that the rules clearly recognize their obligation to do so, if these communications conceal e.g. in the form of telephone calls, with the permission of the president: a description of a stand or provided information considered relevant to a case for the management of the Ministry or to be important...How, in effect, there are certain conditions for this. It was reported in the Ministry that phone calls were not specifically recorded in the case. I've been getting the same answers from the Sea Department that this isn't done. But count 'em why. Is there really no reason for the senator's contact with a minister on important issues that do not appear in the language files elsewhere? [[The president calls.]] Should this rule be discarded just because no one is following it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u90	A respectable president. No, of course I believe that there are conversations and decisions or other relevant information in the Board of Directors. However, this is not done by phone calls. I'm not going to say that the phone calls I took during my seminar may be counted on the fingers of one hand, but not enough fingers to count the calls I generally took as Minister. Communication is only being done in other ways today. It may be easy to write down all the phone calls, but things that are important are recorded; they are recorded in memos. When a minister accepts discussions within the Board of Directors, he wishes it to be recorded in a memo. That's how the registration is conducted. But to record individual calls, I think that's just unrealistic. Piratars always get stuck in the form, that's so typical of getting caught in the form by registration of phone calls. It's the stuff that matters, that it lies down, and it does it in the notes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u91	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a pleasant talk in many parts of the world, including The senator listened to the rules. I'm a little bit close to what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Ivarsdóttir, i.e. that there's always rules being broken, that's right. The conclusion of the day. A senator's reaction was that perhaps in some cases the rules were stupid rather than the people who break those rules. What about traffic regulations? Road rules are being violated every day, people are trying to cross the red light, they don't give direction lights, and people just do things in traffic, and they're dangerous because they don't follow rules. Is the rule on whether it is tried to break the law? Or does the rule in itself have value for society, for the safety of other road users, and for the security of the community in general? Could we apply this illustration, as well as this illustration of the rules of traffic, to such rules that try to keep sexual equality honorable?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u92	A respectable president. I'm next inclined to say that this is a childish approach. A senator, trying to minimize what I'm pointing at and putting forward. Some rules are just that there may be a problem. There may be something wrong with the rules of the administration system when there's a series of scenes, contrary to all politics, against the Ministry and across the experts, that they are being violated. Then there may be something wrong with the rules. Of course, we are not talking about traffic regulations. But since then. For example, when a person writes traffic regulations, a candidate considers how easily people can apply the rules of traffic. when deciding to reduce the maximum speed in the street to 20 miles. In some places, it has been found that it does not work. Police who give envelopes about this speed note that rules are set about 20 miles [20 km] high on a road that allows for more speed. Of course, we need to determine whether it is possible, first of all, to follow the rules of life and also to follow them in a natural way. If we take such petty rules as the rules of traffic, that's the case. I'll be waiting for a lawsuit. The senator, and he should be exalted above the intention of stating that if any are driven to red light, the rule should be canceled. The fact is, there are very few who run against red light, very few people. But if it was somewhere, so that 90% of people at some point run over to red light, you need to see why it is. This is certainly not because the people have the intent to break the law; they may not offer to have red light or to have some kind of misunderstanding. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u93	A respectable president. I hope now that there aren't very many people who share that idea and that belief. For example, the senator says that it is the driver's assessment details of a maximum - speed traffic tunnel in children's neighborhoods. Other: It seemed to me at a speech that caused quite a difference. A senator may not be impressed with the bill in the suit it is. That's why I'd like to ask. I mean, a senator, does she support this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u94	A respectable president. Speaking of traffic regulations, there is a physical difference between traffic regulations and the rules we are sometimes following in the administration and the Management Board, the management system, that the rules of traffic are very clear. They don't allow room for food, it's only 20 miles an hour. It can be measured. In fact, there's a little bit of room for people to go over. But many of the rules being set for an endless conflict. A lot of people, a lot of time and a lot of money is going to be all over the place. 10th par. administrative law: ◯... a case should be adequately informed before making a decision. Who should evaluate what is sufficient? It's just hands on some people in the city or in the courts or on some committees. All of this needs to be clearer. When a man gets into trouble with such rules, he has to pick them up. So the problem is the rules. I'm not gonna answer this if I'm supporting the bill. I give my position on a vote, but I encourage members of Congress to request that the case return to the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u95	A respectable president. There have been good and meaningful talks here. I'd like to allow myself to refer specifically to a talk as a matter of course. The manager of my part of the arraignment. Andrés Ingi Jónsson, a board of directors and patrol officers, held here, as he passed through the committee opinion I've signed and I'm not going to repeat it materially. You know, corruption, maybe it's about her. It can have a mental appearance, and it is not always a filthy haggis about some dark task but can also thrive on candlelight as you sit with a fountain pen. Depravity can, for example. As a favor to an old schoolmate, it may even include payment to someone who needs it. If you are in a position to do so, you shorten your way through some particular process that helps the person. Depravity can be described in informal decisions that will help and speed things up. It can describe itself in what is a bit invisible in Icelandic society, but when I was growing up, it promised to be in touch, to have relationships. As I grew up, there was still a remnant of the Icelandic ocean society, and then it was all about being in relationships, knowing someone who had a position to provide you with some particular quality, perhaps reaching timber, screw, or nail, if they were built, because everything was bound by some goats, or getting a car or property, and so on. Thus, a variety of forms of communication developed in the Icelandic community, the financial community, the Icelandic community, which was not necessarily repugnant in itself. In fact, even virtues were practiced by humans, i.e. they showed some type of growth they deserved. But these habits can follow, and always follow, that in the end they lead to a mismanagement of government; to make decisions, not on objective terms, but on some other basis, even on the basis of favour, friendship, or ties. It is so important that all these things are on the table, that we know of them, and that we are not trying to cover it up, and that we are aware that this is not a good way to make decisions in public interest, to accept them as support, favors, acquaintances, friendships, or mutual interests, mutual favors. That's because of what we'd like to try to get things together somehow. At the same time, I realize that it is not easy. It is not easy to grasp the invisible network that we have here in the community based on our relationships, family ties, school relationships, sports friendships, sewing clubs, all kinds of relationships. We talk all the time, and we're doing it in an informal way. But we all agree that this needs to be done, and we need to somehow be able to trust that people who have taken part in making decisions in public interest, who have become involved in making laws, a public service, and being guided by a public advantage rather than paying a street of some friends and acquaintances. We agree, I think most of us, that the appearance needs to be in a way that inspires confidence, that it leads to the idea that no other viewpoint would lead to making decisions. So trust and belief need to be maintained, as it were. The chairman of my section said here before, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, except that I think we're still in that part of Icelandic society - and I think maybe there's one problem we're dealing with here - that we have to rebuild the faith of the public in the institutions that make the decisions that concern the whole nation, restore belief in the World Council and restore belief in the government, the council, the problems and the government sort of it. You see, I'm afraid that the trust that has not yet been reinvigorated is so necessary that it has to be with those institutions. Then I'm not talking about people having to be very impressed with members of Congress or even having to trust members of the council as individuals or individuals, but the other people who trust the World Council. In fact, I think that belief was too preconceived, and measurements show that the nation's childish trust in Congress and the government each time it collapsed because it was not only a economic collapse but also a moral collapse. There was a collapse on all values and self - image. The nation's idea of themselves and the arrangement that prevailed here was shattered. All confidence in it all collapsed, and trust has not yet been restored. It may be said that before a collapse, the public belief in these institutions was far too great, but after a collapse perhaps too small. The lack of faith is so complete, and the distrust so overwhelming that it even makes it difficult for the General to do so. The lack of trust is, in fact, that it will not really be a pleasure. I think it's a top priority for all politicians, wherever they stand and whether they work within the council or outside, to try to restore that trust. Then we come to what I have to say in the processing of the bill. I would have thought it was worth it if the government and its supporters in that committee, where the case was won. The administration and monitoring committee would have made more effort to get together to win the case. I don't necessarily mean to say something. The manager of my section earlier, Andrés Ingi Jónsson's son, calling it a slip that came to pass, but I'm not going to be told about what has been said about me: Little Crawl will be Vöggur. I don't think it's enough, and I would have liked to see that more direct step and perhaps more willing to approach my point of view because I think if it was possible. A board of directors and board of directors would have met up with an opinion in this case, which is in terms of the appearance and trust it would have been worth the effort. I'm not going to go out on a few things, but I'd like to agree on a matter of opinion as to whether the surveillance should be on the hands of a prime minister or an independent surveillance committee, to agree with it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir correctly pointed out that many members of the Parliament may well have great confidence in the current Supreme Court. Prime Minister Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, and as a result, feel that she is not likely to abuse her authority in this regard. However, it is important to keep in mind that there is a prime minister after this, and it is important that we try to be careful in making rules and not necessarily allowing them to be the basis for a person's positive or negative qualities. Instead, we try to keep the rules and regulations to the best of our ability. I would also like to remind you, and it is quite natural, that every time a new government is formed, a new prime minister builds up a specific authority network around him and brings all his helpers into the Ministry and arranges people around him as prime ministers each time it is likely to work in the spirit of his ideals and intentions. All of this is perfectly normal, but it may not be normal for the minister to have that precise role with these people because the relationship is already too close. The minister is even dependent on his helpers over time. This may be a friendship case, and the relationship is natural that such supervision should come from the outside. To me, to be honest with you somehow is to be seen. Talk about assistants and the spindle door, it's true what happened. paritaprevir It's over. Andersen earlier, that there may be no helpers. Depending on how you define power, they do not have formal power, and they come and go. But because we're talking about spinning doors, assistants have a chance of opening doors. They open doors into areas where decisions are made, and they have priceless access to power. They have access to decisions and decisions. They can open doors for stakeholders in there. I find it normal -- I know that she may be a little strict, and she may even cause a very qualified person to think twice before he or she agrees to become a minister's assistant - that he who is a minister's assistant may be a little better before the person starts working for a interests group that may have a lot under it, perhaps rich interests under it, to have a good access to areas where decisions are made. It looks like I'm looking in front of you and I'm sorry that these two things didn't find their way into the final model of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u96	A respectable president. I liked to hear it. A senator, letting his mind wander back in time, reviews all the relationships, he's right. But I think that his description of the situation in the past is even more understandable than ever the language that humans use today and would like to tie in the writer's paper booth. Of course, it's just that people know you and others, that they all know someone. In our little community, it's like that, fortunately. But I wondered, " Why? ' A senator really believes that trust in politics or in politicians will be restored by means of writing. In fact, the entire bill, as it is designed, is about almost exclusively the children of politicians and the assistant ministers, e.g. ... aswrong. A senator turned aside, i.e. that at the end of the Commission's work there are limits to their starting work for six months. Of course, this may have little practitioner significance because most people have six months' notice, it certainly has office managers and government managers. In fact, I don't really know any examples of anyone leaving the State's warm embrace, from the lifetime council almost calling, from the office of the Ministry or Office manager, to the professional life. The bill may not completely prevent this, but it is not encouraging for people to go into the job if they are subjected to abuse and to be promoted for their former jobs at the Board of Directors. This is a case of suspicion. That's the problem I feel about this bill. I'm asking why. A senator whether he can agree with me that there is a threat that politicians will be slaves to the writership in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u97	A respectable president. I don't want to be the one who's writing something that we're creating here, I don't agree with it, and I don't think it's a concern. I believe that the most important thing in our jobs is to try to help the management system work, that it works justly, that it works in a consistent and reasonable way, and is efficient for the public and work always in the public service. Because of what? A senator merely turned aside to assist them when it is important that I am not allowed to mention earlier that I do not believe that helpers have something to do with corruption and other people. This is not the case. Rather, we are here thinking of posing a particular temptation that exists. As shown in the case of what? My co-star, huh? paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's son, who has gone into the business, is mainly the assistants who have gone into the business. Work as so-called interests, less government managers and, so I'm talking a little bit like a dog. paritaprevir "Shurry Á. Andersen did earlier, let alone ambassadors."
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u98	A respectable president. Unfortunately, we don't see enough of former government managers, office managers or former emissaries, and there's a reason. It's because the government's soft embrace is life - giving. This is only the problem, and mostly for them, young people are running a long time even in that intelligent hope. I mentioned children in my previous answer. It is as if they have become a special problem, children of politicians, children of ministers. Believe it or not. So a senator is really saying that a bill that requires information on the financial issues of children adds to the transparency and credibility of the administration? Believe it or not. A senator? Or ambassador? What is the power of ambassadors? What are some factors that are contrary to the rules that ambassadors must not turn aside to the other and these activities, or that their mates must be informed about their age and previous employment? Believe it or not. A senator? I'm just asking him honestly. Hv. A senator is a storyteller who traced the way men have looked at those activities, and I ask if he can give me an honest answer or what he has on his mind. I described in my talk here earlier that I have a feeling that the bill is composed by someone who has this endemic glyco in the eyes of certain jobs here in the country that are ambassadors' positions, assistant ministers' offices. I feel like some kind of flight stewardess and pilots are missing into the bill, too. Then, if I allow myself to say so, a respectable president, you can get all the professions they want to be at all times. What do you think? A senator about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u99	A respectable president. I may find it hard to draw a question out of this later answer unless I realize it. A senator would say that I am being overly gullible. Yes, I think it's important that there are clear rules. This does not mean that everyone is always trying to break them. I also believe that it is important for those who are in confidential work for the common people, as it is, that there is a transparency, so that I use popular words, much fashion, their finances, and their circumstances, in order to bring reproach on their work and on their trust. I think it is no less in the interest and protection of the people who do the work, that it is difficult to raise doubts and distrusts about the work of the people whom we know to perform their jobs with great faith. Yes, I believe it's important that the management system works well for the public and in a fair way and that there's a compromise on the interests of people so that nothing can be done about their work. I think that's part of the restoration of public trust in the management system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u100	A respectable president. I'm moving this committee from what? The Economic and Business Committee on bill to correct the change in timetamp charge. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by members of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and also received reviews of the case by the taxpayers' Association and the International Habits Association. The bill suggests changes to the reference charge laws, No. 138/2003, which includes the target of the target of a plunger charge and the requirements of half the stamp's return. An article with the bill shows that it can be considered as a basis for it. In view of the tips presented by the U.S. Council agent at the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Constitution met the requirements for tax reformation. This should be considered in 2 mg. Section 4. The law to assign a price to be paid according to the construction level on the day of delivery when there was a mismanagement at the level of a contract contract and a delivery date. At the same time, an agent felt that the law would have to measure more clearly about the standards or methods that the businessman should put in order to determine the currency and cannot be based on the registered prices of the contract date. The bill then responds to the requirement that the half - price of the time stamp, as measured by 3 and 4 mg. The law of the law, and its implementation became unclear following the decision of the head tax committee No. 103/2019 where it was concluded that the criteria should be explained in a way that should be overlooked from an apartment owner's inheritance, since he would not have used it for his own use. The bill suggests that the implementation of the condition will be simplified in a more clear way by stating that the conditions of a cut-off of a time stamp will be tied to the fact that a person has not previously been assigned to a house in which to live, whether any previous holding had occurred by purchases, inheritances, a donor, or a possession in any other way. Finally, it is suggested that half-priority of the stamp due to the purchase of the first apartment should be the subject's paneled owner at least that if you buy half the property you buy, you will be destroyed. In view of the real estate status and taking into account individuals who buy their first apartment building, it is suggested that the terms be put out of law so that the first buyers may have a greater chance of how their ownership of the purchased apartment houses is handled. The committee suggests changes in the technical bill, not intended to have a material effect, and can be read about in the committee's opinion. The Committee suggests that this bill will be agreed with these changes. Under the heading, write why. And the men of Óli, the Björn of Kárason, and Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, which are written here, Oddný G.; the daughter of Harðardóttir, the daughter of Willum Þór Þórsson, the Jón of Thor, and Jizdor, the Steindór of Valdimarsson, and Ólafur Þór, the son of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-02-112.u101	President. I recommend a board of committees on bill to legalize the law of home loans to consumers, with one change. The Commission has discussed the matter and has been contacted by members of the Department of Economics and Economic Affairs, as well as a written review of the matter by the Neighbour Office. The bill suggests that new laws on mortgages are added to consumers, No. 118/2016, with the permission of lenders to do cross-border business and the cooperation of law-oriented authorities within the European Economic Area. The same law on loans associated with foreign currency is also proposed to consumers to borrow property in this country, even though their income is in another currency other than the Icelandic crown. (b) What will be considered in the following article? 33/2013, so consumers will be able to land their consumer loans in the United States despite earning money in a foreign currency or living abroad. It says "Nitetmen's Office" is even. suggested that the wording of a-part 5 be changed. the bill requiring a warning to the consumer should be sent if loans or regular reimbursement changes by more than 20%. A consumer living room suggests that instead of the words "20% more than 20%" will arrive at ◯20% or more, thus setting a standard warning firmly on a 20% change. The committee agrees with this comment and believes that with the change the criteria for sending a warning will be clearer. The committee suggests that the bill will be accepted with the change I've been over here. Under the heading, write why. And the men of Óli, the Björn of Kárason, and Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, which are written here, Harðardóttir G.; the daughter of Hardy, the daughter of Willum Þór Þórsson, the Jón of Thor, and Jizdor, the Steindór of Valdimarsson, and Ólafur Þór, the son of Gunnarsson.
