ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u1	Borist has received a letter from a foreign minister asking for every request to give a written answer to an application. 710, on the release of international contracts, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson, and on a threshing floor. 788, of the committee, staff and management groups, of the Lord Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u2	To answer, financial and economic ministers and health ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u3	Mr. President. True, there are very unusual times here and around the world. All over the world, action that has not been seen before is being taken, or at least for a long time, since it has been observed. All of us will be aware of the situation now in one way or another. We see at our place of employment, the General Assembly, how things are going, but out in the community there are tens of thousands of people who are deeply concerned about the future, what to come and what to do to survive the next month and miss. The government has presented specific suggestions, and I welcome them. I'd like to commend the secretary of finance for bringing them in. We do not agree, however, that this is the correct methodology or that it is advanced enough. There is something that we must discuss at a council hall or in committees according to the way things develop. There may now be a number of companies, especially tourism, with no income. Today, there is no entrance and there will be no entrance for the next few months. How are these people going to do that if they're going to pay 25% of their pay to keep employees if they don't have any entrance? They have commitments and investments, but nothing comes in the box. I can't see that this company is actually able to enter the arrangement that was set out there. I also want to hear a minister explain how to support and trust financial institutions, banks, to choose which companies to help and who not. As I understand these suggestions, financial institutions, banks, will pick out those who receive help. Does this mean that those who do not get help but feel that they have a good business can look for something else and get someone else's opinion of their status?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u4	A respectable president. I thank you very much for the first act we've played this weekend, which is the biggest step ever taken in the economic programs of this country. But they are not followed by the words: "That is enough. " They are followed in these words: This is what we believe is the right thing to do at this point, and we believe that will assist companies who have been affected by income failure, for example, and families and individuals throughout a society that is concerned about the future. We want people to be relieved of anxiety and have very selective measures that take place that include a large number of people, such as the U.S. More than 90%, I thought, of Icelanda's staff, is losing employment ratio. The kingdom will enter that position. I'd like to reiterate that we're not saying anything or anything about this being enough. There is strong evidence that if this crisis persists, we need to do more. If we wondered that this situation will lead to a gathering of debts in the community over time, we are, in fact, looking at the question, Where will these debts accumulate? We know that the state's budget will take on a significant increase in debt, but we know at the same time that companies need to increase their debt. There is, though, a limit to how far they can go. It's obvious that we're not going to come out of this low so that we have what we called in our time zombi companies, zombies who can't move, have no ability to do anything because they've become beyond their debt. I'm going to enter it only in the second answer to how we see that payment is being provided in the system, but we're going to make a great demand for the clients to make sure that they're okay and to use the space the Councilman's granting them to back up their businessmen.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u5	A respectable president. Yes, we can agree that it is important for an enterprise to be used by them. However, it is not that not all companies are viable, do not have good business, may not have been able to collect in funds because of investments and the like, and therefore have no chance of making use of this small tourism company, for example, since people just don't have money to attend the 25%. That's what worries me. Some of these enterprises have, e.g. contacted and asked: What is in this for us? I don't have money for next month's reunion, for the pay, because there's no entrance, it's zero, I have to pay my bills and insurance, etc. This is a concern. Then I think it's very important, considering that we must have learned something from the collapse of the bank when the banks went on to choose who they could live and who didn't, to have it crystal clear that the banks can't choose those whom they love and please. There must be complete transparency, and those who feel that they are loaded must look for someone else to get their answer or conclusions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u6	A respectable president. I can see it so that a company like that could be. A senator here, who has lost a lot of income, even in all, is an example of a company we are trying to reach. Such an enterprise should, in my opinion, be paid in its business bank so that next time the payments will drop and they will simply be run to the back of the loan available. Besides that, the loans are designed for such companies because we say that they are designed to pay, rent, and other purchases. Only time can then tell if we simply need to take on a debt that is building an abnormal number of companies who have a normal routine for the future. How far it should go is not good to say exactly today, and we must simply continue to take the tide, evaluate the resources we have already taken, how they are working, and where we might have to go further. [[The president calls.]] I think we've stepped in very handsomely, so you shouldn't have to worry about it all over the next few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u7	Mr. President. V.E.G. Financial and economic secretary will measure the measures of the government for the Covid-19 pandemic after the end of this program. Most of the initiatives aim to give companies who temporarily lose income a chance to survive the dive and return to work after the epidemic has passed. That certainly is important, and there are many practical suggestions. Last year's tourism was now vulnerable to the largest industry in Iceland. Tourism, as is the case with the worldwide crash, can be said of the article here at home. A lot of hotels and boarding homes are in big trouble. In some of these days, there is no activity, temperatures, and workers on unemployment benefits. I'd like to ask the highest. Budget and economic secretary whether he calculates by taking over the travel service this year or if he believes that it can take the article far into the next year or longer to straighten out the cow. Government activities are temporary and general. We are likely to need additional assistance, especially on the subject. Very much. Ministers are using clear sources of state strength published by the European Union and the EFTA monitoring agency for this condition and, if necessary, request a request from the EFTA accession Centre to direct specific measures, e.g. Hotels, hostels and flights? On the website of ESAs, there is a guidelines and there is a possible license for the state's strength to travel in this fear-stained state.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u8	A respectable president. There is no way to tell us the exact time of reaching the bottom of the tourism service. I don't think we found the bottom yet. I think we've got a very difficult month ahead of us. For example, it is impossible to say whether tourists will grow again, a month before, during the summer. It's just not time to say anything about it. I am convinced that the effects of this crisis will stretch in next year, but we'll find some time this year, in my opinion, some form of resistance. I say this because I believe that this is a temporary situation, that the epidemic will pass, and that things will come back this year gradually to normal. However, we do not remember the position of tourism this year or possibly not next year. All our actions, however, aim to see that if there is a relief, we will be ready to take advantage of the opportunity to do so. It is true here that public aid has been cleared up very well, and I'm sure we'll make use of it. Actually, I think what we're doing today is an example of us playing in that new space. We don't think we're running into government protocols with the bridge loans we've mentioned. But I would like to ask men to be careful to focus their attention solely on the tourism. It's obvious that companies that are just loosely linked to tourism are seriously affected. For example, why don't we take cabs, for example, randomly for someone who sees a crash in his income despite not being directly involved in the tourism business? This could be counted for a long time, you could walk up the hall route and point to the right and left of an influence company but may not be defined as a traveling agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u9	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It was interesting, though, but I would like to encourage the Minister to draw up the stage in his Ministry how to employ specific measures and to direct them to companies that had difficulty building up in short periods of time when we straightened out the cow. Mr. President. The health system is the first line of defense when there is a threat, and it is proved to be well in the present situation. A good and strong health system has to do with national security. Our health is under great pressure, and it will need extra funding so that there will not be a substantial exchange in the current year. However, there is no increase in health care funds in the budget that we will discuss later today, so I would like to ask the highest level of questions. A minister of whether we can trust that this year's quality will be improved so that medical facilities will not have to cut down next year to work up the slope of this year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u10	A respectable president. This is a very important point. A senator enters a health - care network. We are preaching on this budget that other funds will come later in the year to collect sources for much that can be seen at the expense gate today, but they were not when the budget was approved. Clearly, there is health care at the top of the list. We have a general reserve to pick up and, as it stands, we feel that we are not going into any emergency problem with this and that new funds will be useful. There are, of course, many other factors that we need to take further steps in. We can envision a number of ways in which we can further support our companies if we feel that we need them; paying taxes; dropping taxes; temporary and even permanent penances in the banking system. All of these are obvious actions that may need to be taken if we need to go further, so we are not left to the crisis with an overbrowded company that is not able to move, invest, employ people and act on them. [[The president calls.]] We need to return to normal condition as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u11	A respectable president. Now that the Covid virus is in full control of the homes, I'm afraid -- and I'm going to be kind of like an old machine that always submerges the same routine - not just the people of the country but the homes. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance: What will he do about the insurance? The star offlation will arise and there will be a mutation in the inflatable loans of the households. As we know in the collapse, thousands of homes will suffer if nothing has to be done. I just want the answer right now to the question, What will the secretary of finance do about it? Is he willing to take out his insurance insurance on mortgages, on homes loans, right now? We can do this one, two and three, just to calm people down. Will he wait until those who have been at home at least lost all their possessions? When should this be done? I want the answer. Then I also want to know why there is nothing in his package on how to support individuals who are the worst in Iceland. It's working for children, but there are people who are so in bad condition that they are trying to keep their housing so low as to pay so low that it is impossible. They can't even buy food, can't even go to the store and get some food because they don't have money. Then there's something else. Why are money not put in church relief work, Mother's Strength Committee, and Family Help so that these individuals can buy, for example. Electrolyte, vitamin C and Vitamin D? It's been shown that this will help. Let's put money there to help these people. I want to see what the Minister is doing about it. When will this group be under?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u12	A respectable president. Hv. A senator here asks about the insurance policy and concerns her evolution. To date, it is impossible to read about the reactions of market partners except that the market does not expect much inflation. I draw attention to the fact that after this morning's statement by the Federal Bank, the rates of prices have fallen to 0%, not just for a short time, but until 2026. The market estimates that interest will be low, not just this year, but many years after its declarations from the Federal Bank this morning. This is important when we ask how governments can affect the interests of their households. The late bank has a legal obligation to hold back the inflation, and it defends its credibility in order to carry out the task with the tools and tools he has. I don't think it's time to take special legal treatments for inflation and insurance. As a matter of fact, if we go into such operations, we might doubt our confidence that these things will be fine. I also draw attention to the discussion of securities loans that if people are really worried that in recent years an inflation is on the way, they should not forget to discuss the status of those who have taken an unscrupulous loan on an ever - increasing scale because their paying load for each month's conventions will increase much more than those who have paid back and really enjoy it. I believe our actions are about the people of the country, not just the companies, because these are individuals discussed. Other than that, I just agree with what. When a senator speaks of various relief institutions, he spoke of them. We're supposed to be behind them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u13	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. There are some signs in the air. We've seen the euro gangs leave 136 at the 150 and the Danish dollars and they're all out of business. This means that all goods will rise. Everything will go up that is just the way it looks for inflation. Although the interest rate is 0, it does not tell the whole story. At the same time, we need to understand who are taking in securable loans. It is those who have the lowest wage because there is less payment. Who are borrowing disloyally? Those with the highest salary, those who can therefore pay a much higher percentage of their earnings in payments of apartment loans. This tells us that there is heaven and sea between these individuals. I hope you will accept it if it turns out that inflation is about to start. [[The president calls.]] And I'm glad that you're going to put money in relief agencies so that they can care for those of their own potential.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u14	A respectable president. I'm going to say that with our currency, he's been doing a good job lately. He's been very useful. Under these circumstances, it is natural that the Icelandic crown's gang yields. We're here to discuss a complete collapse of a number of tourists, aren't we? As we look at the field a little further, we can see that the amount of dollars is getting sick, e.g. with the American dollars just about. as much as other little coins are doing. Let us not forget what this involves. The question may be asked, Could it not be true that a single state of the currency union, the euro, would be inclined to have a weakness, such as the rest of them? A senator is concerned about the matter. Would the Italians not want to give in exchange for a certain weakness of her currency at this time? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u15	President. There is a lack of health care professionals, nurses. Work conditions have long been so bad that many educated nurses do not function as nurses. This knows the health minister. It was passed on to nurses and other health care professionals five years ago, although it had been warned that this would result in a lack of health care professionals. 200 nurses quit. This knows the health minister. So to bite the head off the shame, the State fought that nurses get their full pay in the strike. This knows the health minister. The story of nurses is a long story of humiliation. Now financial ministers have failed to negotiate with nurses for a year. Nurses have told us that it is only the pay force that stands out to finish the contract. But the highest. The secretary of finance told me to ask before the weekend that he would not accept the pay requirements of nurses. Nurses are not greedy people. If money is first in your mind, you will not choose to care for people and put it first. Nurses want the pay to increase enough so that enough educated nurses come to work as nurses and put the others under stress. Let's end the shortage. The nurse is long tired. I would like to ask, " What will the health minister do to eliminate the lack of nurses? ' Nurses will stand by us through this epidemic. They can be trusted to do so. They will put themselves in danger for us. They will be weak for us. We can be confident that they will take care of us. And when the epidemic's over, they're going to leave unless we see our own worth in standing with them right now. What will a health minister do to cope with the lack of nurses?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. The basis for his question is correct. Sadly, the lack of nurses is a continuing and predictable task of health care worldwide. The World Health Organization now stresses the importance of nursing as a presupervising nurse and we are going to be aware of how important nursing is, that there is a predictable significant global shortage in this important health group. I have set up the workgroups with the approach of nurses involved in this important project, both increasing the number of nurses through education and in the labour contracts that are present and have taken far too long. Nurses have put an enormous amount of importance on the scales of changing the hours of shift workers, perhaps the biggest step in reducing sexual amounts in Iceland that have been taken. I would like to use this opportunity to thank the nurses who now stand up and agree that we help them most in their work by conducting the recommendations we are receiving from a psychiatrist and other governments and taking care to a distance between people, etc. I've been in a conversation myself with the chairman of the Social Services Association. I strongly emphasize that there are contracts in this traffic. It's about respect for this important career in a welfare community. There's a meeting scheduled for tomorrow and, of course, I hope there's going to be a movement there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u17	It would be very useful if it were the highest. At the same time, a health minister may review the situation, i.e. Each situation lies ahead for the models established by government over the pandemic. What is the position of the medical staff who is on the front line working close to those who are infected? What is the situation today? What's the pressure? How is it to see that pressures will increase? How many nurses aren't working as nurses today? We knew that over a period of time. At 200 C.E., excommunications were reported when laws were passed on to strikes in the past. How many people have come back? How many people are missing the assignment we are facing, especially when - not when - nurses are infected? We know that this is happening around the world. That is the danger it puts forth. What is the future situation with our nurses, the danger it faces? [[The president calls.]] How can we get those who are not working at hospitals back in? How has a minister set it up?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for having an opportunity to answer that question. It is now this way in Iceland that these cases are being handled well and that the directors of all medical institutions meet each morning with the P.R.P., a psychiatrist, and a field physician to review the situation. It is given tremendous emphasis that no matter where a medical facility is placed, each person is prepared to receive an infected person in different circumstances. This requires adequate protective equipment and use of it. I'd also like to thank you for the fact that the number of health care professionals in the health care unit is now, this morning at 9:30, 574 health professionals who are around the community and are ready to enter the work and some of them, more than half of them, to enter the front line and care for Covid-infected people. These include 183 nurses, who are thanked here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u19	Mr. President. It is safe to say that these are strange times we are going through now. Of course, there is the greatest health problem there, but it is also clear that the issues we are considering here at the council today will be of utmost importance. It is important that I know very much that within the council there is a good solid solid solidarity, for this matter needs to work fast and safely. Here a good agreement must be made for their payment, and needed adjustments or refinements may need to be made. This is no time for political superiors, but it is not a time for criticism or inactivity. It's gonna be more of a part that's going to break the tone of how the council manages these matters this week, so I'd like to ask the highest level of questions. The secretary of finance is not absolutely certain that more of both the budget and the financial and business committees have a clear message from the government and a clear authority to attack the changes needed to be done on these issues and to ensure good cooperation in the committees, between the smaller parts and more parts. In these circumstances, no matter where good ideas come from, the committees get along well with the changes to be made and go further as they need to. That's why I want to ask the highest. Secretary of finance: Is it not absolutely certain of the issues we are taking to 1st? In the week at a flash speed, this day and payment and processing will follow a clear message from the government that it is hereby authorized to cooperate with them and as being done on a welfare committee with part - time nonemployment as necessary?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u20	A respectable president. I thank you for a positive tone I feel at the council in order to cooperate and say that, on my part and on the part of the government, there is no other than to have the best cooperation in the outcome of these matters. Regarding the actions of the government, it can be said that these suggestions are not presented on the basis of some scientific investigation but, rather, have to play a certain political art in creating needed trust and sending out a proper message that we will all stand together through a difficult time. The extent of the operation is not final, but it has its outer limits, as we now plan it for the council. We will follow through by saying that we will continue to have to keep a close eye on the situation. In general, I would like to say that we can agree that a steady reassessment needs to take place based on the way out for the next few weeks. However, it is important to complete these steps. I'm not going to stand in the way of people making changes as a reason is. I can give you one example of a case that I think we should try to speed up on and shouldn't make a major change in basics, i.e. It is the scope of the investment campaign. I hope that I will be able to submit to a government in the morning, an arrangement for the projects that will fill the 15 billion that we will discuss here today. In cooperation with the council, I'm sure we'll discuss individual projects, the priorities, and the like, but I would rather not want to see people race to say that there are other 10 billion or more at the expense of the state's funds, because we pretend to have done quite exactly what it is realistic to do in the summer. [[The president calls.]] We're just starting this conversation. I will not tell the council how to settle matters in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u21	President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I think that in these circumstances, it is very important, and there is only a rich requirement in the community that we here turn back and work as one man to solve the real problems we face. It is clear that the priority in the matters being taken or the priority of that work, both in budgetary and economic and business committees, in terms of possible changes or refinements, must always be towards the emergency measures, which will affect the next two to three months. Of course, we can see that the situation gets worse from day to day, has actually been getting worse while the government has been handling these matters. Thus, in some cases it may be necessary to go further or to make some adjustments. That's why I'm so happy to hear it. Minister will take advantage of this quest. I think it's very important that the council has a good authority to do these matters thoroughly and in good cooperation. [[The president calls.]] I hope indeed, and we in the restoration shall do our part in the matter, that we shall succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u22	A respectable president. It must also say, as it is, that the council is on the alert for the spread of the virus, and I hope the committee will be successful in handling the situation in which we live today. I see no reason except for it to be successful. The government will support this work and answer questions as we can. It is clear that a lot of people will want to have an opinion on these measures, but first reactions are positive, I must say. I feel that I sense a positive response from the Society of Industrial Society, the Association of Professional Life, and the Association for Tourism. This suggests that we are able to get it out into the community and that we take it very seriously and are ready to go very far to support business in the country, to cover our jobs, and thus lay the basis for solidarity the rest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u23	Mr. President. First, I wish the Minister and his Ministry good luck for the work ahead. I know it's not easy, and people are really trying to do their best. I would also like to express great gratitude to all health care professionals who are present in the front line of public defence and health. In such an emergency, we can clearly see how much wealth, in fact, is in our excellent health care providers. Sadly, these people are now working under tremendous pressure, and the pressures will only increase in the near future. Today, nurses are the most challenging health - care professionals, these are the largest health - care professionals, and in reality, a key reaction in all of this. Hence, it is surprising that a new labour contract has not been established for nurses. Nurses have now had no contract with the State for more than a year. Over a year has passed since the release of the Social Services Act by the National Nurses and thereby by the central labour agreement of the Society for Ministers. The last collective contract signed by nurses was 2014 and therefore the nurses have not agreed to negotiate for more than five years with the Icelandic government. That's why I have to ask the highest. Health Minister, who is the key minister of this government: Is it necessary to complete a contract with nurses? Of all the classes in this country, this class is not supposed to be uncontracted and much less at this time. Will a minister promote agreement with nurses? I mean this week. It so happens that the next meeting is just tomorrow, so people are meeting. I have faith and confidence in a minister that she can promote it. I know she'd love to see a bargain, but we'll have to put it to work. I repeat here at the end that it is incomprehensible that this class does not have a deal with the state in the present circumstances. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u24	A respectable president. As shown in my answer to a previous inquiry in this question period, I agree that this collective contract must be completed. I've been hoping that the gap's getting shorter. Hv. In view of the situation, I agree that this situation further highlights the seriousness of not having a collective agreement with key classes, as is the case. I'm of the opinion that at any given time there needs to be a collective agreement with nurses, whether it is the current struggle with Covid-19 or not, and to draw out in this discussion that the massive reaction our health system shows, is, in fact, showing its power, from specimens through damp and disease beds, and then to a new parade created by the Landsaver, which is about following every person in isolation by Covid-19, talking to the person on the phone every day or every other day. This extramarital situation is unique worldwide. What the land hospital is doing here is a service that we don't see in other parts of the world, and these calls are more and less processed by nurses, but of course also by doctors. When it comes to hospitalisation, we have seen the importance of our key classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u25	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the answer, and I give you the highest. A minister who insists that the union will simply be negotiated with this key class. I reiterate that it's just the deal tomorrow. Therefore, there is a very special reason not even to discuss this in this council hall but to discuss it twice. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson likewise did so in his inquiry. This situation, this unprecedented situation, shows how important these classes are to us, schoolmates, and health professionals. We see that nurses have already responded to this call, even those nurses who have not worked in medical institutions for a long time, even retired, enrolled in a health - care department. Nurses have answered our call, and now we need to answer their call. I'd like to finally ask the highest. A minister whether it will promote not only that this class will receive a collective agreement but will even claim that this class will be paid under pressure because of the situation under which they live.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-23-81.u26	A respectable president. I thank you again. A senator's inquiry. As we both know, contracts will not be resolved here in the General Assembly chair, but it is extremely important to take these matters into consideration. There's a senator here. I would like to express my special satisfaction in the important phase that has been involved in the worktime change of shift workers and has already benefited the sick and will also benefit nurses because these are the major health - care classes that have been taking shifts for years and decades without adequate evaluation. Now it's being done with this change. There, nurses themselves and their leadership have worked a tremendous amount of work to build trust between parties and lay down the foundation that is currently available, in this large part, and is, in my opinion, the biggest step toward eliminating the sex - income industry in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But then the pay force is left and we have to finish it.
