ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u1	The president wants to inform us that votes are immediately after the completion of the report. Education minister for school in the time of a pandemic crown virus, about noon, or just out of the window. 12th
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u2	A respectable president. It is my opinion that every man should rule his own place of the night. For some reason, though, we have very strict rules when it comes to hiring our night into eternity. The government has decided that we should be buried in a cemetery, yes, or we can apply to allow our remains to be burned, and then they should be buried in a certain way. In other words, it is virtually impossible to fit in with the sea or the mountains, though it may be what we wish for. A respectable president. Now I've submitted a second bill of legal support. I certainly wish to measure for that bill as quickly as possible. I think it's important that we have freedom when it comes to such things as so many others. I have little understanding that the government and the government need to handle these matters. The fact that people wish to be burned instead of burying them has increased dramatically, and we see certain developments in that subject. I realize that our cemeterys are important cultural and social phenomena and I think it is important, especially on Christmas and other holidays, to go to the cemetery and remember those who have passed, to remind me of love. But I also find it important to decide when it comes to where and how my people will remember me. V.E.G. President. I hope I have an opportunity to express myself quickly and quickly. A top-of-the-art Board of Education will take charge of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u3	V.E.G. President. Many big news is coming through these strange times that we live in, but they live briefly and sometimes are forgotten quickly. Good news is given even little attention, but it is just one thing that I want to draw attention to. It appeared some time ago, but to put it in context and time line, it was about the time the earth shook. Some reported on the rapid run of certain senators and others about the greatness of fasting. Looks like everybody's good at something, but nobody's good at everything. But the report I want to draw attention to is the result of a terrible storm that struck the country at the end of the last year, which even took place. to the extent and intensity of communication was disturbed. The director of the Emergency Line, Þórhallur Ólafsson, called for a major campaign to prevent recurrence of this condition because communication disturbance caused about 80% of the cases of power deficiency. As a result, a team was appointed for the expansion of the transport systems and the distribution systems of electricity and communications. The objective of the group was to map the necessary replacements for infrastructure. The group even laid down. to secure a solid network of communications, including Based on bioavailability and safety. Radioactive relationships should meet the needs of the public and the contacts in emergency situations, e.g. A similar storm. It is good to say that now the system has been added to 60 places, backup stations have been installed, and mobile generators have become 25. This is only part of an action to improve the agricultural environment throughout the country. So it was good to hear the above president of the Emergency Line appear in the news and say that there will now be a guarantee that even if power is lacking, there will be 112 people who can call 112. V.E.G. President. You can see that there are many good things in these days, though indeed, when we are under extra training in uncertainty and perseverance. Come on, let's go.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u4	V.E.G. President. News of the ill - treated sheep is striking at this time, and farmers are being greatly damaged. Now we will see how we can meet farmers who have to cut down because of their humps. The daughters are said to be out - of - date and not in agreement with existing government contracts and farmers. When the money is cut off by the humping, farmers get compensation because of the damage they suffer, called cutbacks. In addition, there are compensations for the loss of crops while there is no money and then there are costs for cleaning and cleaning equipment that need to be spent and to improve. The damages to the land are also due to depend on the cost to farmers when they buy new farms and start farming again. But benefits for cutbacks per dilk, unless only about half the price of a death victim, are twice as low as the cost of a slaughterhouse. The Unnsteinn of Snorri Snorrason, director of the National Association of Sheep, said that it was called upon for a considerable time that the requirement for reformation is revised, as long as it is due to its year. The ion assessment is out of harmony with what happens today, the benefits are lower than the cost of buying a lifetime. In addition, the Regulation is not updated in accordance with existing government contracts and farmers so that pay can be obtained that otherwise can be made out of that contract. After surgery, a great cleansing and building work is being done. It's been two years for lack of money. At that time, the price of resolve can be bought from clean areas, crumbs, and rams, whereby farming can be restored. There is a process called genetic analysis or genetic analysis of livestock, which can then be cultivated from money, which costs a lot and cannot afford it from its own pockets. [[The president calls.]] However, there is something that they suggest to be examined much more carefully so that a government fund could meet them at that expense.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u5	Mr. President. As I often feel that on this occasion, when we senators have the opportunity to discuss the matter, I am impressed that we are in the midst of economic difficulties. Iceland's Common Association of Economics was published yesterday, requiring what has been observed in other economic forecasts recently, that the economy of this year will be about 8%, the greatest reduction in one year since 1920. It's fine that we put things in this context, and when we discuss our business here, whether on the expense gate or elsewhere, we realize that this is the reality we face. It is also evident in the global ideals of the UN, which I don't seem to be meaningful in terms of pessimism or optimism, but rather haphazard and realistic, that next year a turnaround will be relatively weak, i.e. that even if small economic growth could develop next year, the economy will start slowly. We need to keep in mind, too, that even if there is going to be something to grow up in travel between countries and tourism and other such things, then there will be no more than slow turning, and we will face the consequences of this shock in the years ahead. What I would like to stress, however, is that when we think about how we can get the standard of living back up here, because we're going to have a considerable number of lifestyle problems, we need to consider how we're doing it, and we're not going to do it any different than building jobs and allowing jobs to be allowed to grow and thrive.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u6	Mr. President. Sunday, in November, there is an international anniversary of road accidents under the mark of the United Nations. The day is to remember those who have died on the road, to consider their individual responsibilities in traffic, and especially to thank the respondents who provide help and help. As with so many other items, the day of memory will be unorthodox for Covid-19. Across the country there will be memories of accidents at the Landbourg Society and other reactants. You see, there are a shocking number, or some 4,000, people who die in traffic and hundreds of thousands, injured in the world every day. Then there are those who are seriously injured and who have to deal with many traumas and heartaches because of these accidents. Mr. President. Each of us needs to examine himself, and driving a car is a big responsibility. How do we behave in traffic? Do we use the phone under the wheel, check Facebook, or even text? The best disaster prevention is that we behave well in traffic, not just going to have others act wrongly. In view of this Sunday morning, I also have to mention the operators who are involved in traffic accidents; the police, the ambulance, the rescue crews, the medical staff, and so many more because their work is both difficult and invaluable, and thanks to us. Finally, I would like to encourage all of us to consider why we keep such a day of remembrance, that we will accept the responsibility of being a driver, and we will not forget the seriousness of it. Let us not become careless, for many fatal accidents can be avoided if each of us is driving with caution. Finally, I just want to remind you that in my hometown, candle power flows will be at the pond. 6 and live, live on Facebook website of the Emergency Department Prevention Department from Siglusar 1 p.m. Seven. I encourage people to participate by putting out a peace anchor.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u7	Mr. President. It's beautiful in the bosom of the mountains of bluer in the West. But it's not just romance, it's hard for nature to take. In many cases, the weather is difficult, and the wars, the conditions of the winter, the distances are heavy, and the amount of isolation is considerable. Thus, in these circumstances, the Westerners rely heavily on flying. They've been lucky with the servants for over a hundred years. The same airline has served the jaw and the fresh people and the goods all over the country. The local people, representatives of rural society, and firms came to a edge during the days when the flight had already been announced and a new party would become a game within a few days. But this is life, says Vega, which is an auction. The lowest offer must be valid. Three offered a detailed flight route, and none of them actually fulfilled the invitation's requirements, if properly indicated. Then it began to knelt with the premise and conditions that ended by saying, "No, that's not how we do it. She declared that the road type had broken its choice at the lowest bidder and that the selection was inadequate. Was it not the monologue, Mr. President, to stop, look at the situation, and ask out again, do it the way it should do? No, it continued to be a thumb, and the inhabitants of the West know nothing of the weather but that they now see unchanged in the background of experienced servants who know the circumstances and possess a flying fleet that is, in fact, special for a Western situation. It's a general plant on the south side of the West. The inhabitants count the service in an uproar, demanding counsel and information that has not been found. Mr. President. It is urgent to continue to ensure safe flights west to agree with the inhabitants and challenges to public publishers. I'm asking you, is there anything else you can do for the government? Can they be so willing?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u8	Mr. President. The new lid is on the Internet meeting of the United Nations, and I want to use this opportunity to congratulate the United States of America on having replaced the authority of the present leadership. The chairman of the United States said in a speech just after the meeting that there was no part of the Central Party policy that the Conspiracy could accept. My good partner on the left side told me the other day that if the Conspiracy was a music policy, it would be an elevator music. The middle class is more heavy - metal, folklike music, so it is not a matter of calming down that one can accept something else. But I take the encouragement from the chairman of the United States to introduce a policy file or a violation from the Middle Party's policy file so that those who are able to choose the Union will know what it is that the group does not want to feel at all. It says, with the permission of the president, in the chapter on travel, industry, and innovation: Iceland's competitiveness results in more valuable creations and thus its increased quality of life. In addition to creating a lot of work and other valuables, industry and tourism are creating much of the population's currency. With innovation, which takes place in pioneers as well as in established companies, Iceland has a better place in competition for countries, and therefore it needs to encourage research and development in this country. And here, also, in the section on social, housing and equality matters, with permission of the Supreme Opportunities. President: ▪ The Party operates on the equal rights of all society's citizens regardless of gender, status, or other factors. We want society to base on the values of democracy, equality, and human rights, and reject any discrimination. Mr. President. This is in short what the chairman of the United States can't accept at all, and that is some news. But we, of course, will continue to introduce our good policy plan and take this admonition that we receive in order to reach the truth.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u9	A respectable president. It's been three years since a private government began to rule. These three years have been an event. The Treaty emphasizes a balance in terms of government matters and the rapid improvement of the economy and the need to be balanced among all the inhabitants of the land. In addition, unusual circumstances require adjustments in practices, transparency, and respect for tasks. At the beginning of the government organization, no one could have imagined what our plans were in 2020, for the year has been like a science novel. Covid-19 struck us with a huge task and changed the overall picture. The future we see is like a 5,000-cup puzzle, which has not been grouped together and no model set for building on. No one saw this situation coming, but it was meant to be. Now it's good to have the width at the government table. Government reactions have been varied. Many major unexpected projects have been worked out, and it has always been guided by the means of ensuring survival. In this situation, rural society and the basic services they need to provide are tested. Farmers are often prepared to take on the cost of changing circumstances. Therefore, the government's actions are highly divided by rural society across the country. In the past, social action is rated at 24 billion. These include: government resources to maintain recruitment and ensure survival That makes $1.6 billion. Direct social activities are implemented to ensure the services and support of sensitive groups. If you consider the actions of the government, you can find steps that will help to keep your business going, actions that will return with the outbacks and taxes that keep society's wheels going. Let's go! Let's go!
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u10	A respectable president. For three years, the government of Katrín, Bjarni, and Sigurður has decided to increase the poverty of disabled people and long - suffering rather than improve their benefits. A large group of disability live in very low numbers. It is absurd financial violence that during the New Year's season, the difference between disability and minimum price will be 86,000. Since 2007, the gap between microenergy pension and minimum wage has steadily improved, as has been often suggested. During the present government's reign, nothing has been done to deal with the blundering of the past few years with the pensioners. One world goal of the United Nations, top priority, is to eliminate poverty. Now that Bjarni has put in his last budget bill in the season of election, there is no change either to see the reverse; the increase in poverty and fierce hungerism. Decades of years have broken up the minimum and the pensions. In budgets, social security bills will increase by half of the correct amount, or by 3.6% at this time of the year. Secretary of finance now says that it is not easy to raise those who are in the wrong way. That group will be few. Why, then, has he not done so? No, it's all here of the same hurt. Fight policy against sick people, older citizens, and children. Waiters. The title of this government is waiting lists. People go on a waiting list to get on a waiting list. What will be the next master plan? Triple? Waiters to get on a waiting list to get on a waiting list? And who should be included in these lists? Yes, sick children and older citizens of this country. The shame is that government, and it is time for it to pull its pants off and stop preying on sick people and let alone the forced transport of disabled people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u11	The president will have to remind you that if you point your case or point to the highest level. Minister or wk. They are to be mentioned by members of the Parliament, and they are to be used by appropriate comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u12	Mr. President. It was hard to see the last minute in Iceland and Hungary's game last night. The finals of the Hungarian team reached incredible success, making Iceland not repeat the next summer adventure from 2016, which we probably all are in fresh memory. It was even harder for me to see the frustrations of the Icelandic actors who have all their money. But this is life. This game, its finals, and its consequences go to the memory bank, into the chamber that will be marked in 2020. And it's somehow almost appropriate. Just as Captain Aron Einar Gunnarsson said at the end of his game, this game will mark no end despite extreme disappointments, much less. This team has written the openings of a marvelous story, and this story will be written on the next few years. It is important to remember, however, that such success does not come naturally, not to anyone, and especially to a nation like us. To ensure Iceland's presence among national achievements in the sports field, you need a strong vision, a good outsider and a powerful national sports job. Later today, on behalf of a council of reveries and several other members of the council, I will make a suggestion that includes the highest degree. The Minister of Education will be assigned to shape a comprehensive strategy for athletes in cooperation with Iceland's Olympian Union and rural communities all over the country. Yesterday, he moved. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir proposal on behalf of the U.S.R. There will be a minister of education, in agreement with the highest degree. Secretary of finance, authorized to present the bill to legalize the payment for successful athletes. I hope, and I believe that a body of Congress will guarantee the quick and positive release of both of these provisions. There are great interests for all of us. Finally, I rejoice that the government has finally agreed to initiate a conversation with Reykjavíkurburg in building a new national stadium at soccer. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u13	A respectable president. I'm here to make a subject of the welcome of locals to people who are applying for international protection. There are two types of people who are looking for a better life and security. They're the ones that come here by themselves, and the ones we welcome. Those who come voluntarily are often called refugees, but those we welcome and choose are refugees. It has not been many years since Iceland's rural communities have endeavored to welcome refugees into their community. They welcomed the refugees, claiming that they were ready to receive them and sent the government an answer that they wanted to receive more refugees. But when people come by themselves and in a similar way if they are not the same, they say, " No, these people are not welcome to us. ' There are only three rural communities in Iceland who receive these people and help them while they await their release. It's Smokeytown, Hafnarfjörður and Reykjavík. The situation is that Rhinestown has an agreement to welcome 70 individuals. But because no rural areas in Iceland are saying yes to the National Institute of Iceland to receive these people, they are renting, without consultation with Smokeytown, a community facility, and in addition to hosting over 100 people in addition to this agreement. It's not possible, and this has to be done. This adds to the pressures of social services that have plenty to do for those people. If this is not a solution, the branch office of the European Environment Agency, the Work Programme, and the National Security Agency and other government agencies in the area must be expanded at least.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u14	A respectable president. According to surgeon Alma Möller's opinion, yesterday the crowning virus epidemic developed certain health problems. The system would be small and inadequate to provide adequate basic services, as well as persistent spacelessness. That's what we know. She expressed her opinion that the system would need to be better equipped and that it would need to be viewed by independent operating units to meet the needs of patients and to deal with performance and waiting problems. I found this refreshing last night because a group of Parliaments has been restoring all this ideal period called for a mature discussion on health matters in general, and for the long term that the politics shouldered a certain responsibility; for these patches of politics, they will have stopped and solutions. A group of requisitions has provided a number of queries, assumptions, and bills with the goal of solving the complications. We have allowed ourselves to call all the hands on deck to solve the suffering of people who have spent months and even for years on a waiting list, e.g. after replacement and hip surgery. But all these suggestions have been taken or put to sleep. It's probably connected that we're in a smaller part, since politics is still ruling in the administration home, it seems that it matters where good suggestions come from. It is not too late for the government to do what is right, and especially for the groups who have taught themselves to freedom of individuals, but they have only limited their time, they give their votes. Here they have all the suggestions to attract individual and public agencies to relieve people's suffering, free people from the suffering of a waiting list. We need to focus on the consumer himself, his life, and his health. We need to strengthen the supply of the health system by using both the independent health professionals and the health professionals within the public system. In my opinion, the matter cannot tolerate any further wait and much more of the court lists.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u15	President. The vote will be September 25, next year. The reason is that in the government, they love one another so much, despite official declarations of mistrust, that they want to finish their terms. Perhaps it is more true to say that the government is only fond of power than of any other government. In fact, the United States of America is something that a member of the Parliament stamps as an authority. The government is not counting on our tradition of choosing springtime. Rather, the government decides to take the place of autumn elections despite all the flaws. The main problem is working on the budget. The Constitution expects a budget bill to be the first case in the fall election that can meet at the latest on October 1, less than a week after the next election. On the other hand, the law estimates that September 14 will be met unless the government decides to act as it was done this year. Hence, this should be done in the year 2022 of September 14. Somehow I suspect it won't happen. I don't think there's a chance we'll be able to see the budget of this government before the election next fall. Yet that bill will appear to the people five days after the election. Will the present government compete for the common emphasis it puts on the financial bill that everyone gets to regret after election? Somehow, it seems very unlikely to me, in view of the election earthquake that runs in some members of the government. The Independence Party strives to wave some of the freedoms that other classes have long ago provided, the VG shamed previous governments for failure in climate and the forwarding of the walls as usual. Yet their budget will be their first legal case for the next election period. This is the stability that the government said everyone was calling out for, the way to build confidence in politics, or as the prime minister expressed it: I had no hope of a solidarity.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u16	Mr. President. There are now disturbing reports of a mutant variant of the Korean virus in Danish mines that are believed to have originally come from people to minks but have now returned to humans, mutants, back to people. Therefore, there is a potential risk that vaccines which are now developing against the chorionic virus may not act on the mutant variant of the virus. This is now the case with the Icelandic government. In Iceland, there are nine minutes away, 31 of them six years ago. Today, only about 30 are direct jobs and must be considered extremely small, in view of the cost of sacrifice that may result from this growth. I also charge, Mr. President, that breeding in behalf of their skins is a complete time error and not in harmony with the modern age when it comes to animal protection. Many clothing producers have long ceased to use the skin of living animals. In addition, skin prices have been far below the cost of production in this industry, and it is therefore difficult to see the justification in this industry. Therefore, I suggest that the government now enables the few more animal models to stop their operations with strength. It is possible to think of an arrangement similar to that of the state's paying for farmers who have to cut down sheep because of a pine. Since the year 2025, and many other European countries have already banned this culture. Where's the highest, anyway? Environment Minister in this discussion? Does anyone know his view of this culture? Mr. President. I feel that the environment is not only about rocks, but also about animals. It has truly been missing in this country. So let's stop humping in Iceland. Mr. President. Pelsar is not an essential warning.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u17	Mr. President. I'd like to talk a little bit about saving or actually not saving. I hope that members of the budget board, full-of-the-art educational committee and the highest level. Minister of Justice, give ear. Last summer, the world's highest level took place. The minister of justice then controversially and, as we have seen, missed the decision to close the prison in Akureyri. The decision, as a complimentary minister, was revised, and it became clear that a great deal was missing so that this decision could work and that there was a lot of money to be paid to the Northland police. It is only a minimal operation, however, as it has now been shown, Mr. President, that this is in no way sufficient, and that this is especially not the case with a guard guard officer. It was recently reported in the news that the cost of bringing prisoners to police custody from Akureyri to Reykjavík is estimated to be about 200,000. on each prisoner. That week, when three prisoners had to be taken to Reykjavík for custody, cost nearly a million dollars. They need at least Two police officers escort each prisoner with an alibi from the area. Then there are people who study a case in Akureyri, and they need the nature of the case according to South to question, but the cost of each hearing is estimated at some 200,000 k. The agency did not get the extra manpower to carry them to Hólmshök, who must, Mr. President, simply had to be considered unacceptable. So I ask, Mr President, how can this be considered a reasonable arrangement for the government's financial resources? In the end, how can this be a savings to the Kingdom? Is this an acceptable situation that we offer both to criminals and police officers? This can't be smart, and I'm gonna go to the top. Minister of Justice and even less so. Senators of the budget and Board of Education to settle the issue and to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u18	Meeting arrangements are made for the discussion. After the presidency of the minister, all classes have the right to counter or deposit twice for two minutes and one minute as well as the minister has the same time to respond.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u19	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this important opportunity to review these matters here at the council Hall. Caring, flexibility, and perseverance have been the passwords for all school activities during the period of Covid-19. These three points have been emphasized with particular attention to the effectiveness and well - being of students and the status of sensitive students. I can't say that enough: The power of the Icelandic educational system of Covid's time is unfathomable. School directors, teachers, and especially students have shown extraordinary courage and hard work, and they will never be grateful enough. When the virus came up on the land, I put emphasis on speaking and talking. So the Ministry has held another hundred telecommunications with the main stakeholders of all schools, sports, leisure and youth, and we've been over the ratings and major issues of the past. We have also been closely cooperated with the Ministry of Health and the Surgeon on educational matters and on the possibility of offering students more masking, near - and mass limits, all within the existing regional policies. On the basis of this broad consultation, regular guidance on school activities has been provided, depending on the situation. All members have joined together, including with a joint declaration to help achieve school work as traditionally as possible and that the right to study is guaranteed. Looking for solutions is a major factor in reducing the negative effects of the virus on school activities. A respectable president. Now I'm going to go through school. I'm starting out with films and elementary schools. According to the results of Reykjavíkurburg's assessment of school at school in high school, school activities are generally successful. The mind is in staff, the students are very successful, and parents are happy. The school directors, however, find it reasonable to see that the number of school jobs during the past few weeks has addressed and created pressures on school. School is regularly attended by students in play - school, and at the youngest - level elementary school, there is a full - time ministry in vacation homes. Electrical work is in social centers and individual work with children who have problems. All the students at mid-adolescents are going to school every day. The midpoint will receive 2530 classes a week, and the adolescent class will receive 203/430 lessons. In areas where school day is reduced, the study is short of online instruction. There are mainly sports, swimming, art and engineering articles that have, unfortunately, fallen from elementary schools after action has taken place. The same can be said of secular work in other parts of the country. A number of waivers have been given from the Regulation on the limitations of school activities, and most of them are in a more delicate position and need a great deal of service to all activities within and out of school. By this enforcing, the place is a guard of service to all the most vulnerable students, and it is a necessary service. Next, I'm going to talk about high school and higher school. Since the first announcement of meeting restrictions in March, high school has been in an unconventional format. While circumstances vary, practical study has been a substitute for teaching, while study in general has been the subject of telecommunication. Many schools have changed their study assessments with increased emphasis on telephones and the importance of final exams and have shown themselves to be very adaptable. This has helped to ensure education and to keep students involved. High school girls show that there is less elimination now than often in the past, that projects and tests work well, and that students sleep more and rest better than secondary students do. Nevertheless, social development and communication are key elements in good education, and this is now simple: To put everyone in place as soon as possible but, of course, taking full account of the resources to ensure health. Regarding college, the university has been setting priorities for the training program. As is true in most parts of the North countries, recent studies have been conducted. Finally, a respectable president, I would like to mention that as soon as circumstances permit, we are taking all the ambitions to put high school into as much standards as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u20	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for coming here to give us a report on the condition of education at this time. In my opinion, school managers and staff are up to a great deal of activity every day under difficult circumstances. As far as I'm concerned, there's been a lot of information available to all of the candidates and guardians. I think those who live in school right now are well informed about how things are happening, every day, and what they're doing. My concern is that we are naturally far from seeing the end of this situation. As long as it prolongs its length, the result will be greater each day for all of us, e.g. Social isolation of high school students who are more or less involved in telecommunications. Besides, I'm really worried about what tests will be done in spring. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister may have a mild attention to the test these springs, so that nothing can be done with an empty space and a failure to escape. I'd also like to ask the highest. Ministers, whether or not the increased psychological care and assistance to those affected by this epidemic has been provided. I think it's fundamental that we try to get all the students who are snooping through this situation, so we don't have people in a void and an increase in school evasion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his input. First of all, regarding the elimination, I want to mention that we're very close to it, and we started doing it right away in spring because it's the first thing you were worried about. The figures we've received from the springmisser indicate that elimination is less than that. However, we are concerned that the epidemic has been running late, and we do not know when it will end. So we are adding even more importance to looking out for the elimination and the numbers we now have do not necessarily indicate that there is an increase. We do know, however, that what students have been doing is saying, even from one step to the next, to reduce the pressure. The most important point is that even if the amount decreases, the main focus is not to be maintained in school so that it is not eliminated. We thought very well of that, and I can just say it here at Congress that the headmasters, headmasters, and headmasters, throughout the country, are keeping an enormous eye on this. They've got the numbers from spring mismatch, and from autumn. We're all awake and asleep over it. Second of all, we've been expanding it. We've been making deals with companies that offer services online, and we're contributing further to students' efforts to consult therapists, psychologists, and others who can back them up in those times. That's how we've been improving support. I'd also like to mention that I have a weekly meeting with the Icelandic high school and university organizations to get directly from students what they're thinking.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u22	Mr. President. I would like to thank the Minister very much for this information. There's something else that worries me at this point. It's that now that we, and then I mean society and education, have been highlighting the growth and funding of industrial education, there are reports that foreign acronyms have arrived in Iceland with a report suggesting that the legislation of industrial education be terminated. There is no encouraging message to those who spend time earning knowledge in trade. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister would want to use some particular means to calm the fears of those who are currently in trade to make it clear that their interests will not get worse because of what is happening today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u23	A respectable president. I'd like to mention that in the last two, three years, industry and all of Iceland's work have been in great attendance. We see a large increase, especially in those who are only older and now we have about 50% of those who were entering the high school system choosing industrial, occupational, and technology. So I'd say, "What?" A senator of competitiveness that the competition is growing to that extent, i.e. So many people are coming into the study, that I think the interests of these parties are all in the mood, and I can assure you of that. A senator that I will always stand guard and guard by education and by the trademen who have been investing in their studies.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u24	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Education minister for the report as well as for the good work the education system has done in the country. I'll agree with the highest. Ministers of great achievement have been accomplished. This has been achieved by the joint campaigns of school directors, teachers, and other employees of the school, school students, helpers, cafeterias, and cleaning. Everything they do needs to change their habits and work harder and find solutions. And then the students themselves. I also want to say thank you and celebrate the best conversation I've had. A minister has referred to these groups, and especially to students. They get to join in this, and they hear their voice. I have heard that they appreciate it. But with the students. It has become clear, and this epidemic has shown that the importance of social life is basically equal to the study, especially at high schools and early college. That's extremely important. Even if telecommunication is never a substitute for research, there have been solutions to study. It's just harder for students to ask questions, they're more shy about it and all of this, so they need a lot more time. And then I'm sure one day she's been hanging around, though she's been an amazing lot with the kids. V.E.G. A minister made it clear that the aim was simple; trying to get as soon as possible to the most normal activities in order to cope with social life. I felt that it was a goal to be seen in the latest DG, but I have been surprised to learn that high school directors at the high school were able to avoid inviting students to school while high school students have invited all the tenth students to school. I don't understand this difference, why the government's goals have not been reached there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u25	A respectable president. What's been happening at high school is that high school has been setting priorities for those who have been studying for work and art. There has been virtually all the epidemic in general because it is harder to teach such studies during the course of long - term studies. It's done quite well. I'd also like to mention, about the top level of high school, that it is, of course, that students can be 25 in a classroom. If they wear a mask, they are not close enough. It's very important. We also set it up for the first year of our study in high school. But the same is not true with regard to masking and close boundaries. But we're rethinking all of this, and I went to a government meeting before I came here at the council and I just want to reiterate that the level of well - being of children and young people is the most important thing to the government on priorities and how we're going to approach this big project. We're in line with these rules these days, across the school level, and I'm very hoping that we'll take a higher standard. I can assure you what. A senator who has much courage and intends to share in this work with the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u26	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers, and rejoice that they are working fast and safely on this. Again, I want to stress that the first year of high school is highly social. You come to a new school level, missed the social factor in the tenth grade, and are at your feet and needs support. When it does not go as well as you planned, self - esteem and so forth is a major factor. These students may be less at risk for Covid, but they are at high risk for social and spiritual matters. I felt that a psychiatrist and the government would take it into account by setting aside rules for the first year of high school. The students were able to arrive much more at the beginning, in spring, than today, but after these rules were developed, mail came to parents from school managers that it was not possible to do this and they would have to stay at home. I was surprised.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u27	A respectable president. We've been working on these last days to make sure that there's more basic education, and setting priorities in the interests of students is being made. I just want to set things right. A senator about one thing. At springmisser, schools were closed at an advanced and university level. Since the study was actually a long way from studying, there were even more stringent rules in spring miseries. I reiterate that everything we're doing right now is about getting as many as possible in high school for secondary education. I think it's very important, and I hear it when I'm meeting with students, and they want to go to school. They want to meet their teacher and ask questions about the milestones or the phases where they are preparing for a final test. I'm just happy that there's a lot to be expected from setting priorities for education here in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u28	Mr. President. Recently, the president of France said that it was difficult to be 20 in 2020. How true that statement can be! My oldest daughter is in high school, and she's really not been in school since March. The community, the social life, the teamwork, the peddlers, the school center, the travel, the club work, all this she and her generation have missed. The gap between school and home is now ruined, the separation between homework and school schools. There are three questions I'd like to ask. First, will governments specifically add psychological support, guidance, and other support for high school and university students? As a minister knows, I am a man of count and money, so I ask: " Where is the money to meet this problem? Number two: National cost from one high school school drop is about 18 million. K. If the death is conventional, the overall cost is for all who are released from studies of about 23 billion. Today, we can expect that the death will be considerably higher than in the standard year. So I ask: What is the government doing now to counteract the fall? Number three: Inevitably, kids will graduate from the tenth grade this spring. They're gonna go to college. However, it is also unavoidable that some who planned to finish high school and make room will not do so because of Covid and possibly worse academic success. So I ask: Will schools be funded to attend an increasing number of high school students? Mr. President. That's a million dollars question of the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u29	A respectable president. There were three causes. A senator came in. First, with regard to supporting services, psychology services, students, and other things: Yes, we're improving that. I think it's very important. We also need to do so electronically, so that our children and young people can meet the experts they feel they can support themselves. We're doing this. With respect to elimination, I agree with that. Senator. You're very worried about that. This was the first thing I was worried about in spring, how spring came out. But what the schoolman, the headmasters, and the headmasters tell us is that elimination is even less. Even if we think things are supposed to be different than they are, those kids, should be cool. A senator was describing it, even though it's not fun. I understand them very well. But they have been very diligent in learning, and I just want to commend them for that. We need to help them now to get into school so that they can complete this class or this semester. We do not know exactly how the elimination develops, but we carefully monitor it, as I said. Hv. A senator also came to see whether high school would gain extra money because more students would be enrolled. Yeah, I'm just saying it's gonna be. So have we. You can see that, too, at high school. It's at least 1,500 new students into high school. It will be financed because we believe that it is so important in this situation that our people can enter the education system, gain new skills, and then back into our economy when they are published.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u30	Mr. President. Second: People in the general world today have been paid or paid due to Covid. It is clear to me that teachers and other staff at school are certainly in the front, and these people have accomplished many achievements by keeping their school work going under very difficult circumstances. There have been changes in the study plan, program and project redesigned, new forms of communication adopted, and academic evaluations tolerated. All of this and much more have been done by these people. Now I know that Iceland's Teacher Association has sent Ministers a special letter of content, so I ask: Will Ministers put it into practice that staff at a school that hasn't been paid for stress money from Covid like the rest of them in the front? My point is, when it comes to basic schools and schools, these communities are in no position to charge themselves with such costs. Therefore, the ball is also held at the government's disposal. [[The president calls.]] What's going to happen? A minister of education in these matters? Now I know that the teachers and other staff are listening to this Mr. Secretary's answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u31	A respectable president. I take my mind to this lawsuit, i.e. that all those who work in the school system have done a wonderful job. Because high school and college are under the government, I can mention that we have been meeting high school teachers, not us, but schools themselves have been doing so. And why have they been doing that? Because we have been raising money, increasing money into high school, so they have been able to cope with the added pressures their employees have been taking. [[The point is, does it get paid?]] It must have been, yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u32	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for her input here. I think we all agree that students and staff are doing a really good job in a complex situation, and we've never had to deal with this in our school system before. Hence, it is very important to give proper support to your shoes and to meet them by any means necessary to reduce stress. But we are doing amazingly well in spite of everything, for we have not had to lock our children up for weeks, as we have seen in Europe. I wanted to come in on one thing. In view of the need for impairment, e.g. Teaching them is a good job for another resourceful teacher to find something that breaks up and takes care of other things that are not the most informative of the day. One example of such a breakdown is graduation. But that, like other things, requires planning and other outsides, is of particular importance to our little ones. Once the time has come, such as. Students in high school have had to be more or less at home, behind the computer, so it is normal for them to take on their soul condition, since children and young people are generally social creatures and are being supportive of one another. There's nothing different about young people. Although they did quite well, they wrestle with the zoom fatigue, as I think many of our adults also do. Therefore, it is important to give our young ones much support, not only to our study but also to our spiritual and social side, as this has been discussed. I know that a minister has a test project from the fall that deals with the online support systems of high school and I really hope it is and will be a good experience with it, and it's important that teamwork between the members of that school work is important. In this, as with other things, good cooperation and clear communication between parties are the main factors that can prevent anxiety or unnecessary uncertainty and that are truly important for regular conversation with the minister. I'd like to ask a question that also turns to the staff about the aftereffects of stress, if we see that we're losing young people in the cold because of a lot of stress. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u33	A respectable president. It's clear that in this situation, everyone is under pressure, the whole staff, the teachers, the students, everyone. But I have to say that school directors, teachers, and all school workers have come to this subject with a lot of persistence, and they intend to get everyone through it. According to this, it is quite clear that we will have to support all our students into the future because it happened almost overnight that the teachers went to the telecommunications program. Although they had not had much telecommunications, they adopted it in a very short time. And so did the students. Of course, they try to teach, as high - school teachers have been doing, for six, seven, eight hours in telecommunications, and then they train students thereafter. I assure the U.S. Congress that we are keeping a very close eye on this, and I keep asking about it regularly, because it's our human resources in Icelandic society. If we're going to have an advanced education system, and we're going to be in education, we're going to need special attention to teachers because they're the teachers, of course, along with others who're carrying the system. If we don't take care of that, it's clear that something's gonna give up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u34	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. The nature of the matter is the future, which we want our children to cultivate and maintain. I worry about children with learning disability who are at the top of high school as well as those who are in early high school, who are going from school to school. I'm not necessarily worried about the risk of elimination, but because the result is not as good as it might be if we could have a very good outsider. It is true that teachers and staff are going to get students through this. That's why I'm worried about what I'm hearing from my old age that school is under tremendous pressure. Here are the stress payments mentioned earlier, and we need to recognize that there are different payments between schools. I think we need to consider in high school giving a chance that something is corrected.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u35	A respectable president. I'd also like to mention in my objection that one of the things that's done very well here in Iceland is that we've been keeping the schools and our whole school system going the whole time. By the way, there's only one other state, Sweden, and then Iceland. We've done it. We've been keeping a close eye on the school pulse, and we're constantly measuring how things are going, what the situation is, and the clues we get, even though this is a tremendous challenge, there are many positive ones. But it is this social factor that will be difficult for all. It's very difficult for us to come into him accurately at this point when we've been tightening and with these number limits. But I am convinced that we all learn something from this. I'm sure it'll just be okay, so I'll say it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u36	A respectable president. Both health ministers and financial ministers have spoken before and directly called after open, transparent, and critical discussion of disease prevention and its consequences. It should be a cause for rejoicing, for they are unsettled paths that are being followed. The commercial intervention of people's daily lives as a result of disease is of the order of magnitude to compare the world to a huge operating room. One year can be a relative term. One year in a child's life or in a youth seems to be longer than one year for us as older ones. For them, the experience is that it has been an eternity since the virus hatched here in February. How important it is to put yourself in the child's shoes when decisions are made for them in behalf of their lives and their welfare! It is important to ask them the same questions and to include them in their decisions to the extent that their maturity allows. Similarly, it is important for children to be informed about the state of life when the dramatic changes occur in their lives and around the environment, as in the present situation. Now during the third wave of the epidemic, the first time a masquerade had been placed in school, and children were fully exposed to a ten - year - old mask for wearing a mask, they know all the day of school while inside the door. A health care professional has told you, and it's on the front cover of the government's Covid page, covid.is, that masks help if used correctly, otherwise they can provide false safety, which will do more harm than good. I'd like to ask the highest. Education Minister: What evidence was involved in setting up a family rights? Was this decision taken only into account, or were other interests also considered? Was it based on a masked decision that would provide sufficient instruction for children so that their masking use would do more good than harm? [[The president calls.]] What was the overall picture? What evidence is behind the government's decision that young children wear masks during school?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u37	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. A senator on the importance of young people taking part in molding policy. That's why I want to know. A senator says that in the autumn, I have been meeting every week with high school and university students. I'm using it for this job, so I'm presenting it to a pathologist, a land surgeon, and just at the government table. When we are setting priorities and making decisions, it is vital that we take these into consideration. I'd like to mention some of the factors that have appeared in these meetings. First, students desire to come to their school. They want to go to school. Some people worry, and I just want to mention it, because it's in school. If I ask you, if you should prioritize, would you like to come to school and wear a mask? They say: Yes all day; the ones I talk to. They say, " We'd rather, just to get there, wear a mask. ' That's what they want. On the one hand, they say: We long for more communication with our teachers. We want to see our teacher. Although he's doing quite well during his telecommunications, we yearn for direction inside the classroom. Then I ask, even if it's a mask? Yes, even if it's a mask, we'd rather have the mask and come to school. This is what the kids are saying to me. Of course, it's very different. I'm not going to get over the whole group. Hv. A senator asked: "Why did we put our mask on? Was there any evidence behind that decision? Yes, we carefully reviewed all the things the World Health Organization has said about masking and children, and it is said that masking may be helpful for 12 years and older. What we were thinking, number one, two and three was to secure local school education for preschoolers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u38	President. I thank the Minister for the answers. I'd like to ask you a little bit more about this subject, about masking use in school, and about decisions made about disease prevention in educational institutions. When we make decisions about mass restrictions, distance rules, masks, temporary closures, and anything related to disease prevention, there is no doubt another negative effect to be taken into account and to consider measures to protect against disease. It is important to stop the virus spreading. It is also important to ensure the availability of young people to study. These factors must be balanced, and this evaluation must be predicted when these decisions are made. I would like to ask again: Was there a progressive teaching in the children how to use the masks properly in school? I'd like to ask a minister how she made sure that a moderate action was used so that they go far enough to be effective, not to the point where they are unduly burdensome for students and schools.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u39	A respectable president. When we were making those decisions, we were guided to make sure that our children could go to school for as much as possible. That was what really mattered to us. When we were making that decision, we looked at the child's age regarding the use of the mask because we thought it was important. Of course, we consulted with the health authorities, with a psychiatrist, and with all those involved. But what I think is the most important thing about this is that we keep our schools going and we've worked really hard on it. We also considered foreign research on how to make the most of the security possible. I would also like to mention that in this third wave, the politics of Europe, not as much in the United States, are setting priorities for children in order to attend their school.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u40	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. A minister is an excellent review of the status of school activities in the country. It's good to hear that the mind is in school, and that school in high school is in general doing well, because we're as a nation with a huge number of school students at all levels who have shown extraordinary adaptability and skills. While it is clear that decisions for disease prevention are never taken lightly, it is important that we examine the measures at any given time. Let us never forget our primary objective of protecting our most vulnerable groups and securing effective health systems. In itself, the actions at all times are simple; avoid group formation, avoid excessive contact, especially family and non-related persons, and avoid transmission of common contact areas. These are the main elements of the operation and have been all along. It is extremely important to keep the routine of children walking, and I welcome the emphasis of ministers in putting children's lives back to normal. Some activities and activities have been disturbed, and children's circumstances vary. Children have different backlands to cope with these conditions. Their effects may be positive and negative. They can be positive if circumstances permit. Children spend more time with their families under good circumstances, and even more children are at home. Like anything else, this is not all bad. I would like to ask myself, " Could I talk more about my child's hard work, dedication, and adaptability? ' Can we do anything to increase our education for them about the purpose of the sick and their own responsibilities? We got quite close with young people's knowledge. Of course, it's a dog's condition, and it's often difficult, but we're gonna get through it. Is it good to be bored? Could less recreation produce something new and creative? What can we benefit from all of this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u41	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator would mention what our children really can do and what they are capable of. I think they've shown it, and since Covid-19 it turns out they're amazing. In those conversations and meetings I've been dealing with, they're so tough, there's so much courage, and there's so much courage. They want to go on. They want to go to school and want to take their tests, whether there are tests at home or tests. Of course, they want to be careful, and some of them are in a position where there are underlying diseases in the home and we take this into account. I mentioned that we were working with some values. Caring is one thing, perseverance is another, and flexibility is the third value we're using, and with these values, we're gonna get a little caught up in this, and we're gonna make sure that our young people are involved in this decision-making. I decided now that the third wave started that they would just be at that table. I remember it very well when I myself was in high school and was very active in all social life that we got to sit at the table. It's just that if they sit at the table, because these decisions concern them so much, I think we've managed to set priorities correctly in these measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u42	V.E.G. President. Thank you for that, chief. Minister. How happy we are to hear the power of the people and to have good and beneficial conversations with students and teachers! I want to look at this so we can take some good things out of it. As I told you before, it's boring and difficult, but there are also positive things. It is good to hear the president of the Schools Department say that, on the whole, students are doing a good job and that they are not much of a stretch. Overall, it's just fine. Why don't we just let ourselves look at things that way? I'd like to cast it to the highest. Minister: Is it not good to continue this work with students and teachers and those taking the lead in school when we get out of this situation? Which will end, we will get through this. What are we going to do about it? Now our youth, for example, is ours. getting much better sleep, don't you think? Why don't we just keep stressing it? What can we do to cope successfully?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u43	A respectable president. There is much we can learn from this. One of them, so I'll mention, is this close cooperation and consultation that I've had with all the education systems at all schools. It has been very precious to me. How precious it is to hear what is happening at school! One of the things I've learned from preschool teachers is that they had in the first wave a little more rooming, as we know it, and they found out, and I think it's true, that there's just more space in our nursery. Our schoolchildren live in a very small space, and they even made it. that some children who may not have been very busy did much more after this compartment. No one thought that compartment was funny, and it's not. But we found out that more space is probably needed at a high school. It is with us, and we need to learn from it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u44	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion and welcome it. I've enjoyed it. What stands out is that it is clear that everyone is doing their best. There is no doubt about it in my mind to the highest degree. The Minister of Education is up and asleep over the situation. I would like to focus on the position of teachers and teachers and their circumstances and their circumstances in meeting these needs of students whom we have discussed, primarily on the fact that school work is required. We know that the circumstances in which students make homework vary greatly, and all emphasis is on getting them to their homes as soon as possible. Then we know how important the social feature is. It's been talked around here. I just want to talk about what's being heard that teachers place a great deal of responsibility and information. Unlike springtime, when change was longer than usual, things changed very quickly in the fall, making a feeling of firmness and certainty disappeared for some particular time. It certainly took a lot of time and energy for the school leaders, and, clearly, academic authorities too, to observe, a time that might better have been able to spend precisely on these points we're talking about being so important to students. I ask--there's now some crazy time here because I can see that I have a time that can't be--but at least I'd like to ask about different stage shots in these cases. If this happens again, which is sadly unlikely, is the only idea of returning to the same limitations we have had? Has the highest. Ministers are convinced that this is the right way? Or do we live now, in view of the experiences we have had in the passing year, to information that enables us to examine some other stage illustrations? Can you have that conversation? Is this now going on with the school directors, so that the reality and firmness may be greater, even if we go back to the more contagious roller coasters? Of course, we hope we will not.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u45	A respectable president. This is exactly what you think 24 hours a day. There have been great changes, and the patience of all this fall has indeed been tested. I think we've changed the Regulation at least 5 times, or whether it's six times, i.e. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The Ministry of Health has changed its regulations, and we have had to adapt to this. Our service to the highest. A health minister has been extremely good. We have been able to make comments from the school community into regulations because this needs to be done. Hv. A senator asks: " What can we learn from this? First, we take very much into account whether things can be done. What we did, and some criticized it, was that we spent a whole weekend last week making a frame that can be lived with the epidemic. We see that we need these compartments. I got a presentation from Icelandic genetics earlier in the week what has happened to infections in some schools. They may also spread very quickly there as in other areas if there is insufficient compartments. So we see the need for compartments. We need to make sure that our school is also at a distance. If not, we're going to wear the masks. We're developing this now and we're in a specific place where we can live even though the infection goes up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u46	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. It may be that weekend as the highest. A minister mentions, in particular, that I have in mind, i.e. the workways that occurred after the reports of disease control. Everyone stayed there and had just a few hours before the students showed up to figure out what was really going on. So the question is, Have we not earned some time now so that this can happen on a longer notice? Naturally, forethought and transparency, it must be a key to simply being able to invite staff, teachers, and school directors to attend to the students. And I'm glad it's under control. So we just hope we won't have to use it. I'd like to ask about one thing, because this has been a significant subject to the schools' environment in relation to the masks and the like. [[The president calls.]] More and more studies now indicate that good ventilation is vital. [[The president calls.]] It varies considerably between schools and buildings. I would like to ask what has been considered on the subject of government and education.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u47	A respectable president. This is exactly one of the things we're looking at because this position is not just something that can work. The schools vary greatly. Something that one school can do, even have 25 students and two meters apart, another school can't do because the house simply doesn't offer it. So we're looking at ventilation and we're looking at it, just so I mention it, renting a new space, so when we go into the spring mist, it's absolutely certain that our young people can come to school, that we're protected from this. So we are constantly looking for new ways. The primary objective is always to ensure education in the country and that as many as possible are taking the lead. I believe the priorities we took last spring went very well, and we're developing this into high school. I think we're making as good an impression as we possibly can, considering where we are in this epidemic. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u48	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of education for this discussion. Now students are eager to help students in high school and to cross the post with them and to boost their steel. Of course, it becomes increasingly difficult. We're supposed to be worried about the young people at these weird Covid-19 hours. What will final tests in high school be like in this regard? Teenagers seem to be concerned about their flexibility. The situation is very difficult for many, and when grades appear, they see how they have made money in school at this time. Then there are the other students who have some disability or difficulty in learning or just underlying diseases. What is the situation there, and what is being done in that group? You have heard different versions from school how children with underlying diseases are handled, whether they are threatened even if they fail to attend school, if they have been somewhat confused. Most concerned, though, is the large group of people who live in poverty, even with very little children, even trying to get them through high school. What conditions do they have in their homes? How can they stand in all the things needed to be done; how can they be on their own and be in a position to do so, a computer system, all the things that are there? Is there something in this context that is being done for these individuals? It tells itself that there are groups of children who battle and find it extremely difficult to work at telecommunications. There are even single - parent families, perhaps no one at home, and they even have disability.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u49	A respectable president. There are two things that haven't happened. A senator came in, first of all, the study evaluation. It'll be very flexible. In some places, home tests are available. In some places, there are standard tests. I feel that school directors and teachers like to keep up the quality of the study, but they are also flexible; of course, they realize that the difference is quite different from the past, so they show a certain flexibility. Something's had to do fine polish, like we'll see in Iceland's University. While we would like to offer quality education, we need to be flexible. I want to tell you what. That's what the senator does. The other is with regard to our most vulnerable groups, the children and young people living in poverty. I am most concerned about them because we know that circumstances vary greatly from house to house. I have wished everywhere that these groups are especially monitored, and there is monitoring in every high school that we are responsible for. I think we need to do more. We reach the students, and I ask those with whom I meet weekly to pay special attention to this group. We know that these are receptors that are at greater risk of elimination. There I believe the whole community must come together because we don't even know it's hidden. There, the council and anyone involved will be working harder than less to grasp this position.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u50	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of education is very much responsible for these answers. I really hope that she'll be successful in getting these matters right. What I'm also worried about is mental health. I'm worried about them because I feel like I've made a waiting list and I'm making another waiting list to get in on the main list. I'm afraid something like that might be going on. I'm just hoping that she can ease my fear, that it isn't. Must be about to come up zoom-Fatigue, telecommunications tired. And then there's the masks. All I know is I feel it when I wear a mask for a long time, I get a headache. Is paying attention to how this works in the school system, not just for students, but for teachers as well? And how to react? What can you do when someone tolerates e.g. not wearing a mask, but must wear it? I'm thinking about the person's health.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u51	A respectable president. We carefully monitor the spiritual condition of students through the school pulse. We're also keeping an eye on what's going on at the elementary school and amongst the teachers, and we've done more research to find out what the situation is. This is an amazing time, so we want to have the information available to study and study. Of course, that is not enough. But what I wanted to tell you was why. A senator is that we're watching this. When we decide whether to secure standards, and wear a mask, I have a minister who wants to see more masked standards than we can offer. It has to be said that once we have been made decisions, we have not been making the best scene ever. We are trying to do the best in this narrow position.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u52	Mr. President. There's not been much discussion about college today. I'd like to look especially at that. The results were now coming up from the Eurostudent survey that confirm what the last study showed, that the Icelandic college students hold way too much of a job with a study, way too much. 72% of them work along the way and feel that they can't afford to study without a job. This is something a new school loan system needs to be handled. Therefore, the development of student loans for this winter would have been so ideally revised, and it is unfortunate that it has not been reached. Because of the fact that Covid is extremely urgent, although only temporarily, because basic progress is calculated from the premise that people work for three months a year. When unemployment is highest and unemployment students are completely concealed because they are not allowed to register for unemployment, it may well lead to a severe famine in college students if this is not fixed for winter. Another factor that might be considered, and I would like to mention to the minister, is simply to reduce the requirement of the Education of Unity on this unprecedented winter, so that people who are struggling to study the remote, as well as to participate in this difficult condition of society's going through, do not have to worry at all about not having a good time and a job, just because they don't get a full course of education.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u53	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. A senator on the importance of our review of basic progress. I've already started that job, but I'd also like to point out that we've raised it twice that I'm reminded twice during this terms. We have also increased the leisure target in order to get to meet those who enter the college or high school phase. Hv. A senator mentioned whether the education fund should reduce academic demand. I can tell you what. A senator says that we are also looking at it. I want to kiss the education fund, both the board and his staff. He has responded very quickly and surely to the situation of both foreign students and students here. I would also like to mention that the education fund is, of course, one of the greatest systems changes that have taken place in the interest of students for many decades. We keep in mind that those who enter a education fund will owe much less than those in the old system. We are very happy that we have completed this system change in the fund last summer. One factor is that they are dealing with a lot of stress in conversations with university students. We have the authority to try to consider how we can reduce it, but, nevertheless, that is very important to me, we should encourage the students to continue studying. The worst thing that can come out of this is that students do not trust to continue to study, including, study. the factors that cause depression. A senator mentioned. This whole job's started, I can tell you what. That's what a senator's got to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u54	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear that this work has started at the Ministry and at the Education. A small addition to basic progress: Although it had been raised twice in recent years, it was made clear when we supplied the education bill that it was way too low. In this job situation, it can be assumed that a large proportion of students, a large proportion of those who trust in the learning loan system, have not received summer work, and losing summer parties means a quarter decrease in income over the year. It takes less than that. I cut it off that a minister meets regularly with all schools and especially students at college and college, which is very positive. But that's why it struck me a bit when the minister tells me that students wanted to come to school. What I have experienced in the last days is that it is a clear requirement for university, student, not being able to take a test locally. [[The president calls.]] These people have been out of the university area more and less since March, and they have put their entire standards on top of high levels of technology that cannot be considered positive. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u55	A respectable president. Students are very interested in going back to school, I'm telling you right here. That's what they've told me. Whatever it is. A senator is likely an organization of these tests at the university. I know that students and the school board have been discussing these matters. Of course, when tests are carried out, protection must be considered. Students were worried that they wouldn't, but I've been assured that it's guaranteed. I want less of that, too. There are different ways to complete the study evaluation. Many university graduates hold home tests, and assignments are also given in telecommunications. I strongly emphasize that it is flexibility, both at the university itself and at the school. However, I trust students to do so fully. They've been doing it all this time, and I'm sure they'll get through it. But they also do so by showing the flexibility needed by government and university authorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u56	Finally, if ever. The Minister of Education and Culture prefers, it has two minutes to complete this one discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u57	A respectable president. This discussion has been very helpful. A number of factors have been made that are of great importance to Icelandic society. In my opinion, it is most important that we keep our education system active and secure advanced education in these difficult times. But there is one thing I want to mention specifically and to have been observed, which is our most vulnerable groups, i.e. Those who live under circumstances that may not be the best choice. I think it's most important that we make sure we don't leave a child and no young person behind because of this pandemic. In Iceland, we are in a unique position to embrace this group. We have invested in a very effective health system, as we can see, and I want to thank everyone who works there for all the hard work they've worked to protect the lives and health of the nation. We've also developed a very powerful education system, high school, college and college education, so we're supposed to be able to get our hands on this position. However, we need to be very careful about this, and if we see that we can do better, we should always come into that position and do our very best. We are to do more than less, and it has been guided by the actions of the government. I can assure the House of Congress that I have this situation in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u58	The president hopes that the ticking red light did not interfere. Minister, there's something wrong with the time registration system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-19.u59	A respectable president. We'll vote with this case, but we're not on a committee party. I want to explain why. The courts need these sources so that the trial does not delay, as is necessary in a pandemic crown. I'd like to see this bill come out sooner. It could have been moved to a summer council, then this warrant wouldn't have slipped out, and it would have been less difficult to take care of. The duration of these relics, in force, could have been discussed more fully and in better doubt about their effect on the rights of the defendants especially. However, they are important sources of information. I believe they're there. I don't want the justice system to be exposed to unnecessary torments and, therefore, unnecessary court records. We'll vote with this, but we'll make this comment in the lawsuit.
