ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u1	Borist has received a letter from Senator Pirata of the 11th, Halldóra Mogensen. Smoke. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So today, at the General Assembly as her deputy for the 2nd Pirata art of the district, Sara Elísa Þórðardóttir, who is the first relief officer of the list has announced incursion. Elísa, the daughter of Þórðardóttir, who has once taken up residence at the General Assembly, is welcome to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u2	The president announces that at the meeting of the U.S. Department of State, October 14, he was elected Njáll the Friðbertsson of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u3	There have been letters requesting every time to provide written answers to queries: from a marine economist and agri-gri-environmental administrator for a written query. 64, on the basis of the distribution of munitions, to the threshing floor. 68, for the import of salmon, and for threshing. 69, about salmon and fish lice, all from Inga Sæland. From the Minister of Justice to a petition. 175, about isolation of prisoners, and at threshing. 176, on the penalties of prisoners, both of Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson. From the Department of Social Affairs for the Question. 71, of individuals with diagnosed post-cerebral behavioral disorders, of Friðriksson Katrín, and ofsk. 151, the waiting period of the state diagnostic and counsellors' station, from Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir Island.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u4	As answers are: Prime Minister, health minister, foreign and development co-work minister, travel, industrial and innovation minister, education and cultural minister, Environment and Resource Minister, and Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u5	Mr. President. Governments should not ask poor people in Iceland to wait for justice. That's what I said. The prime minister in that chair in 2017, then a governor - general, and I wholeheartedly agree with her. Yet, a large group of poor people and the elderly live under shamefully low wages. According to Economic Research, less than one quarter of the disability suffers from a lack of material wealth, and the gap between pension and minimum wage continues to decline. Thus, the wait for justice has been the highest. Prime Minister spoke of only the longest one in 2017. Not enough. Now that Iceland's Generosity Alliance represents a powerful struggle for improved terms, cold greetings from Iceland's Government... pills from a financial minister who accuses champions of irresponsibility and threatens the growing numbers of people with impaired ability will be taken into account by those who are already in disability. It's what judges itself. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister if this is really the policy of the Iceland government. It's the highest. Prime Ministers agree with the words of the secretary of finance that advocates of disability undermine our ability to support those in the greatest need, as the minister of finance said, or is she willing to join us in the United States to support those in need? Does it not agree that governments should not ask poor people in Iceland to wait for justice? I'm also asking if she's going to come with us to take up her sleeves now, reduce the damages, and make sure that the pensions of social security follow the evolution of the lowest pay per biographe agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u6	The president brings the attention of the secretary and senators at the side halls to the fact that they are part of the council meeting, they are not at a special meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The son of Einarsson's Logi for bringing up a subject here on the terms of those who are in palaces in the community. He quoted my 2017 words that I still stand for, for many of the actions of the government during this term have accurately reflected this emphasis, action that is appropriate. A senator has supported here in this hall, naturally. Then, in particular, I would like to mention changes in the income tax system, where action was done to the most efficient of the income. I want to talk about an increase of children's improvement, which is important, especially for low income families, in which a dollar or a dollar was reduced in a special supply, and for taking the initiative of 2.5 billion. Social and child - care minister, where specific social support has been used for those in the elderly who are housed by their feet, has been under attack to reduce the cost of health care, disability, the elderly, the children. And the highest. A health minister had long time gone to reduce dental expenses. A senator, like me, was asked before the last election and answered that he wanted to take a big step. It is safe to say that there have been many important steps to promote the well - being of this community and to increase the equation. I don't know that already. A senator here talks to the highest. Secretary of finance has threatened us. I don't think so. I don't agree with what. A senator's view that this is how the word is to be understood is to be understood. However, a minister who pointed out that contributions to this seminar class have grown progressively in recent years, especially when changes in the social security system that were certainly primarily applied to older citizens. Then I'm referring to the 2016 changes we've talked about here, as well as to increasing numbers in this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u8	Mr. President. V.E.G. The minister of finance responded by making a mistake, and I call it nothing more than a threat to what he said. I am disappointed at the height of my situation. As was true in the case of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir during the year, the prime minister cannot take further into account our requirement for paying the pensioner and the pensioner's pension. Here, many measures have led to progress. It's right next to the highest. Prime Minister that I have supported many of them and will continue to do so, all good things. However, I call on whether it's not normal that pensions will follow the biographies agreements. Otherwise, it is an empty matter for the government to use words like a biography contract when it reaches only part of the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u9	Mr. President. Yeah, at what. So a senator will agree on these things, for I think it is very important that we discuss these matters on the one hand from the goals that I think we are doing. A senator will agree on, i.e. that we want to increase the equation in our society and believe that it is an important part of the success of Icelandic society, how much equal has really been, and we should keep that in mind in all our actions. But I think we also need to look at the data underneath. For example, when we consider the history of income that I quoted earlier, it clearly shows that it is not proper for me to speak of the elderly and the desperate as one group. There, economic development has been quite different, but most important, these groups are quite different. That's why I think we need to discuss these groups apart. We need to look at our major objective: How can we achieve more equality? I used my first answer here to point out all the actions that have already been made and others we are expected to perform, such as the highest. Ministers of Social Affairs and Child Affairs have announced. [[The president calls.]] But I also believe it is important that we watch these actions based on how we want to develop this system for the future. [[The president calls.]] I don't think the Council is to flout the project ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u10	A respectable president. Recently, we heard reports that a family should be expelled from the country to Senegals. In this family, there are even some. A six-year-old who was born here and has been here all his life. As a result, the entire family will be excommunicated. As I have said before, this person is in my mind simply an Icelander. We're sending an Icelander from abroad, a person born here who's never been anywhere but here, but our laws don't see it that way. I've asked the highest. Minister of Justice, like others, into foreign affairs. It's always the view that if things go right, they're all fine. Now I know the highest. The prime minister may answer that this issue is in the hands of a minister of justice. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister, in the hope that the prime minister has something to say about the bills put forth by the government itself. This is where foreigners, or changes, are proposed by a minister of justice, whom I had not previously believed that left greens would put forward, according to the highest word. Prime Minister in the past and the fine council in general. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, not whether it intends to present the other or this bill itself, but whether it will promote the government to reform this class rather than to solve technical efficiency problems, so that when an individual was born in Iceland and is six years old and we're sending him out of the country, the law is more understanding than others. Justice ministers come up here and pretend it's just perfectly normal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u11	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the queries, and he did not fail to answer it at the highest rate. The Minister of Justice is here to give an answer. I'm not going to discuss this unique case. A senator refers to, on the other hand, in part, to the length of time that has been taken into consideration because these individuals came to the land in a different legal setting but were approved at the Council of 2016. I thought that the main subject of inquiry was at the time. A senator in effect has to do with the law and the legal environment and my attitude toward it. I've said that I myself have said that it's not humane that people are waiting too long for their release. I'd also like to say that what the government has done in recent years has been shortening the deadlines in the system, in fact, that they will be set up in Iceland when reviewing the treatment period given to governments to take sides on the requests of those who come here for protection. I feel it is necessary, and I would have chosen to be a member of the General Assembly and the Parapolitic Committee, which serves on the scene of the Justice Department, would be taken into consideration by a legal environment approved by representatives of all classes, support of all classes in 2016, and how we feel it has been given. For I myself believe that the adjustment was good, that the goals there set for humanitarianness and efficiency are good. But I also think that it is the duty of all of us who agreed on this bill, I was one of them, to look to the progress of the project. It's important when we come up with a case where we think it needs to be considered how the law's work and the aims of the law are going. However, I would like to point out that these legislation have been a major development in its time, and I have not noticed that there have been many suggestions on changing the law directly in connection with the discussion of individual matters during the past years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u12	A respectable president. I participated in the votes as the highest. A minister here mentioned the new legislation in 2016. I voted after a very large overpowering because of it, and I think it's no secret, that there was no one perfectly satisfied with those legislation. She was that big and very busy. That in itself is normal, but there was also so much horror that there was good reason to make things better. However, in terms of reevaluation of legislation, I find that experience with the Treaty 2016 has shown that setting high laws is not sufficient if there is not a real will in the European Commission itself to enforce it with humanity and an estimating point toward humanity, and general sense of reason, I would say, in fact, because we sometimes throw people out of the country for no reason, from humanity's reasons. That's what I mean. It's the case. Here's a six-year-old person we're about to throw out of the country because legally he's not an Icelander. This is not an isolated case. Since my first visit to the council, this has been an ongoing discussion at the General Assembly. This needs to be done quickly, a respectable president. Will the prime minister take advantage of any technical adjustment or reevaluate the experience from the other?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u13	Mr. President. The Agency enforces the lawgiver's will and what I pointed out is that there are not many suggestions for changing in this building to reform the law from 2016. I'm looking at what I'm doing here. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir, who suggested an unsupervised child. I know why. paritaprevir Similarly, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson suggested a change. Then it is almost the same as I really know this story. I want to point 'em, too. A senator says that it is not as if being guided by humanity here. Let us see that more than 60% of applications have been approved in cases completed this year by those who have applied for protection, additional protection, or humane release. There are then 368 individuals, children, and families, who have been protected. Only those subjects who have received material treatment have 79% of applications been accepted. The number of applications has also increased substantially in recent years, with a greater proportion than anywhere else in the North countries, as noted by the National Institute for Foreign Affairs. I believe, however, there is always room for improvement, and because of that. A member of the council asks me that when it comes to evaluating the interests of children in our own systems, I have highlighted the position of those who are not invited to follow them, whether we can learn from what other nations are doing in this regard. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u14	Mr. President. Let's do a little too much, but too little. These words were made to the government of the first Covid wave, and they can be commended for many ways in which they have lived, although they can certainly be criticized as we have done along with good things. When a nursing facility's position, the important link in our medical care, it seems, in effect, that it fell between a ship and a dock, unfortunately. I'm not talking about the fact that in the course of this government, the base of nursing services has been systematically reduced from year to year, across the government covenant. Because a conversation I've had with the highest, in fact, several times. Healthcare Minister of the Assembly Hall will continue at a later time, including ... todothe next year's budget. But I'm here referring to the government's promise to do rather too much but too little. And the question is, Why do they not get the promise to the nursing homes? How is it that governments do not guarantee their ability to carry out their vital work in these difficult Covid times? There is no need to comment on the pressures the epidemic has had on nursing staff as well as family members and family members. On top of this, the situation of home living under reduced payment is that they have had to reduce beds. Second, they live at increased expense, even as a result of the disinfectants, and third, the staff has not received special stress payments paid by the government to employees in the state of the health department. Here, Mr. President, the knife of the cow may stand. Gísli Pálsson, president of the Coalition of Health Services and Director of the Gröns, states in his recent article that this is done to starve the aging Homes to give up and give up their business to the State. In another article, Eybjörg Hauksdóttir, the director of this same organization, asks whether this situation reflects government prejudice against nursing homes and the elderly. I'm asking, "What's the explanation? Health Minister for the situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I think it's right to split the answer in two. First, in terms of special support for Covid, it is to say that it has occurred at my meeting withenterprises in welfare services, in articles I have written and in my answers to the media, that we intend to improve the cost of Covid when we see the information available at the end of the year. This knows these people, and I refuse to give myself some explanation that it's about using a nursing home or any injustice to this person. Second, I'd like to say that the promises in the Constitution and to reexamine the base of the nursing homes, which are thus expressed in that text, are standing. The analysis of a team led by Gylfi Magnússon who has the responsibility of identifying the cost of nursing in Iceland is now under way. This knows the company's organization of welfare services. This is a three-sided plan, which is part of the book that was last written on business agreements with nurses' directors staff. In addition, I have had a conversation and consultation with the European Union on services to the elderly in general, including nursing homes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u16	Mr. President. It is clear, then, that this is a perfect storm in a glass of water on the part of a nurse's host, or what? I can't understand answers at the highest. A minister may not have been the only one who has taken care of all of this. However, I only wanted to mention the current work that is very positive, but I remind you that such work has happened before without affecting the injection in the management database, last 2016, if I remember correctly. So the bird ain't quite a bird now I don't even remember the expression I was going to use - in my hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u17	He's seizured.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u18	He's seizured. But this is serious. As for Covid, I understand these explanations, but they are done by those standing in the middle of the storm right now. If that's what these operators are all conscious that these 500 million are improved, plus the pressures of health care professionals in the nursing homes, and that's only two months for them to come, I hope that they will be allowed to maintain their status until then and settle their own issues, without having to resort to impairment. [[The president calls.]] If so, I rejoice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u19	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it. A senator is celebrating what I say here. However, I would like to say that we have to make sure that the diagnosis is in place, so although the senator believes that it can mention the amount, and hence, it may not be quite that way. It will be much better when the data are available and the year will be settled. I realize that it may be challenging to have to wait for it, but it's really the only way we can go, when we see the epidemic impact on the business. Sadly, we are likely to face further challenges for this business and all other medical services into 2021. We were hoping in front of the year that it would be the year when we would be out of this epidemic. But that doesn't change the fact that we're in a position to take this up, and I've always wanted to approach it fairly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u20	A respectable president. More than two weeks ago, on October 13, I presented it in a talk chair, below the council's work, as evidence that the Korean epidemic vaccine would be on the market even early next year. That would be in a few months. In my speech, I raised questions about what plans the government had in this case. Norway's health - care minister has informed the National Parliament that the Norwegian government feels that a vaccine will likely come soon after the next year. In the Faeroe Islands, even authorities have mentioned that vaccines will be ready for Christmas distribution. These are just two examples. How does the health minister evaluate the situation in these matters? What does she think is the prospect of us having vaccines in the months ahead? Are preparations to be prepared for the implementation of vaccinations in this country? Who will pay for it? What will be the plan for the vaccination? If high - risk groups are to be put first, do I mean people with underlying diseases, elderly ones, and health professionals? In Norway, the government intends to care for the cost of vaccination. The Framework Government has declared free of vaccination. What's it gonna be like here? Will each person pay for his vaccination or pay for it? Has the government in Iceland begun to consider planning a vaccination against the virus? Wouldn't be wise. A health minister acting in charge of these matters informs the people and the General of the United States about what is to be done? How are we going to make the vaccination?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u21	A respectable president. It is one of the most important interests of society right now to secure us, Icelandic society, buy a vaccine. We have, in cooperation with the European Union, through Sweden, already ensured a certain number of vaccine doses in two different companies. In one case, there is a signing and an agreement with the other company is included in the water. Of course, it is up to us that the vaccines will be ready not only but they will be safe and effective. We have no answer to any of that now. As we look at the situation in the pandemic, we must recognize that we could be dealing with the epidemic in a long way in the next year and especially if the vaccine was to be waited, would not be sufficiently secure, or effective. Hv. A senator asks about priorities. It is up to a mental - health professional to take care of both the priorities and the planning of vaccinations. It would likely be the same or similar way that we have usually organized and prioritized influenza vaccination in terms of a set group, i.e. the most vulnerable community groups, those with underlying diseases or advanced age, are in priority, as well as advanced classes, and mostly by health care professionals. I suppose it would be similar in this case, and I don't think that vaccination against Covid-19 would be free of charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u22	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I wanted to ask about this because there is now a vaccine for seasonal flu, and it has been found that there are not enough doses. The question also is, Who has been left behind? Are there any at risk? I'm worried that if we can't handle this annual vaccination, what will be the situation when the vaccination for Covid19 starts. I'm glad it's clear that there will be no cost to the public, because a large community group will not be able to afford to pay for this vaccination. But I'm still worried about the project.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u23	A respectable president. I want to make sure of what. The Senator that these matters are in a very extensive investigation by the Ministry and the CDC, and we want to make sure that all of this is the most important and fair of action. I thank the senator for bringing this up. And because the senator refers to an influenza vaccination during this winter, it is true that the market was considerably higher than normal. This is because we are more aware of diseases and viruses than we are at the same time. There were more people who wanted to be vaccinated against influenza than they do and were walking. I think there is good reason why we especially look at the quantity of influenza vaccination for the next winter, i.e. 2021●22022, and only in time can be taken with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u24	A respectable president. I want this opportunity first, to make the highest wishes. Well, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, But I want to roll up to the highest. Minister of the department's office in Iceland and some of their partners' unions with the country's largest energy dealer, land induction. On February 5 of the past, it was reported on the Board of Directors that the German company Fruhofer had been prepared to make an assessment of the competitiveness of a major industry in Iceland. The report was estimated to be concluded by a government report by the end of May. Now we're standing here in November, five months after the planned divorce, and I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on when the report will be expected. While waiting for this report, there have been constant reports of difficult relations between certain partners and land activation, where a person's vision of where problems lie is most easily different. This was of particular interest when both the Straumsvík and the North Side, at short intervals, presented cases due to communication and agreements with Land induction for the Contestance. In an economic situation, it is bad to look at one of the three major currency creations as uncertain as the case. We hear from the news that the owners of the Straumsvík plant are looking for the plant to be shut down if a communication relationship cannot establish which leads to a decision between them and land activation. At the same time, it is estimated that North Poles do not consider themselves to be able to communicate with representatives of Landactivation regarding this, including to prepare 40 billion projects, resulting in a substantial number of activities during the period of construction and a long - term of 40 in the evening. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: What is the situation of the report on the competitiveness of a major industry in Iceland? When is she coming? Second, what do you see? A minister sees as the next step by the government to the big industry, who clearly evaluate their positions indiscriminately?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u25	Mr. President. First, I want to say thank you for your birthday wish from this talk. It is true that we were hoping that this work would take less time than it really is. However, Germany's punctualness is not to blame, but perhaps more often because it took longer than we planned to get from companies important information that Dr. Fraunhofer has had to have in order to do the work I wanted for the company. This is the first time we make such an independent assessment, and it will be very good to be able to take that discussion into account. I'm hoping that I can take the report into the government on Friday, with general warnings that nothing will happen, but I suppose I can take it into the government on Friday. I agree with what. Senator, I'm also concerned about the situation in general. These big companies are here in Iceland very important. Great is an important foundation in the Icelandic economy, and of course I want us to have an environment where they can see their best in staying here. In particular, for Straumsvík, I allow myself to wonder how it is possible to read in this conversation as Rio's policy. There is a company that has sold or closed all aluminium members in Europe and maybe you can say that we're the last one, which tells more about what the situation is, rather than something else. Of course, there are a lot of factors to look at, and I think we need to take it lightly. We have a Landsnet that runs the transport system and we need to see it. There are so many other factors to consider than the electrical price itself. But I'm just saying very clearly: Of course, I want us to be here with a competitive environment for these companies as well as others, for we have very much to live with.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u26	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer is especially glad that the report is coming on either side of the weekend. What a joy to hear. I want the answers from the highest. Minister to ask a minister what she sees as the next government steps will be the conclusion of the report that the situation of competition is equal, despite everything compared to the control countries. It's the highest. So a minister, in effect, looks for that stroke to be lost, so to speak? That we have entered a career in which we watch these big business companies turn from the Icelandic market? And what does it really say, then, about the competitiveness offered by these companies if they realize that this last Rio Tinto in Europe will be shut down? If so, we are not looking for a competitive situation, e.g. In Europe, the Chinese market for aluminium production is completely changed, including considering the costs of this production for us based on various carbon and environmental considerations, for example? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u27	Mr. President. First, I want it to be perfectly clear, and I think it's important that we make it and talk it out, that, of course, it's the common interests of these companies, land induction and our community that these are the most valuable clients of Landing. But about the China market, like a dog. A senator specifically came in, and I was going to come on in my second answer, so it's true that we've seen that the production of aluminium has moved largely to China. There, such production pollutes ten times that of what it does here. I've missed it very much, because, yes, we have a voice, but it's not as strong as to form if Europe were to use it, not to know what we believe that almost all this production is going out of this continent and across into China where it is polluting much more than here. In my mind, we as elves have been asleep on guard. And that may be asked, we have put much emphasis on taxing the pollution industry here, but perhaps we should have used more in that situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u28	Mr. President. In contrast to many community groups and interest groups, one group has been very poor about the disorder caused by the Covid-19 epidemic. They are high school students who have to deal with extreme reductions in conventional teaching. The graduates of high school were 22,644 on October 1. As early as autumn, these students were allowed to use the limit of their study program when a mixture of local instruction and telecommunications was offered. Now, for the fifth week, we're just learning a lesson for this student group, and the decision has been made that all of our skulls will be on a long-term program. Statistics and evidence indicate that the withdrawal of high school students is immediately under way, which is very serious, since the disappearance of students of Icelandic high school was the highest in the north for the Korean epidemic, or 19.8%. This pressures are added to the pressures that this student group has also had because of reduced secondary education to three years, such as A college student's partner has concluded. That's why I want to ask the highest. A minister of education on how to make this up to students. It's the highest. Education minister with some kind of strategy to find ways to raise funds, to offer up summer courses or extra years? The education minister and academic authorities' actions when it comes to basic schools are good and have been successful in maintaining them. And they are necessary, too. But it's going to take the highest. A minister who pays me to the subject of high school and the students must be in the highest priority when detoxification begins. I'd like to hear from the highest. Minister if she can guarantee it by any means necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u29	A respectable president. I take my heart to the emphasis. A senator mentioned here, that when we can begin to lose weight, the matter of high school students will be in complete priority. That's the thing next to me these days, and I'm awake and asleep over it, in the fullest sense. We've been very successful in organizing schools at the elementary and elementary schools with a tireless job to cover it. However, the preventive measures that have been announced by the disease - control authorities have only made this more difficult during high school. We've been working with a variety of tools on how we could help. For instance, we wore our masks back in time, but unfortunately, we had to take tighter measures. I think we need to do even better, even if we keep high school going. The study is only recently done for telecommunications. It's been going on all this time, and so has art, but unfortunately, book studies have been more distant than I think are desirable. I agree with what. A senator says that we have reached certain limits of endurance in this regard, so it is in full priority. I believe it is necessary that after school and university can work almost away from the current course of the virus. We need to create a system that works out the way we have done in high school, and we need to take advantage of that knowledge and how it has come out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u30	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Secretary of education for that answer. I rejoice at the importance of the minister's priorities in this group of students. I hope and agree with a minister in that this group will be in total priority when we begin to see relief from disease prevention. I'm also, and I'm sure it's the highest. Ministers, too, are concerned about the exact condition of students. Sadly, though, studies have made the study more fragile than in other countries. Added to this is the lack of high school students' lack of social activity and anxiety because of the crowning virus epidemic and the uncertainty we may all be familiar with to some extent. But it is a serious situation if we begin to see young people depart from studies, and the long - term effects they will have on many people in the community. I'd like to hear the very idea of passing by the highest level. A minister on how she feels it is possible to prevent these groups from departing and prevent them from becoming more than they were. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u31	A respectable president. This is the biggest subject, not only for a short period of time but also a longer time because the students who leave school now are likely to do so for a time, and the economic losses of such are very high. What we've done and done right away in spring is watching the elimination and it's a pleasure to say that in spring it was less than it's ever been. I want to point 'em, too. A senator has the new information that Iceland is losing. It's been reduced in the last five years by 36%, so we're on the right track. But I agree with what I have to say. A senator must be such that we are really with even more students in our system at the end of the crown virus epidemic than we were in its beginning. How do we do that? Yeah, we woke it up really good, and we're doing it. We're giving more money into the study as well as in the Psychological Service, and I can assure you of that. A senator on this matter is next to me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u32	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Transport and rural Minister for granting my request to take special attention on this important matter. Covid makes the local community's status clearly worse than before when they have to make sacrifices, such as a government fund, sacrifices like everyone else. But they have limited time to reduce their expenses or to increase their income. So I refer here at the beginning of the words of the highest. A financial minister in a similar discussion a few days ago, under the second part of the program, is not a good candidate for the economic policies that the government is running today. The European Union has long had doubts about the sustainable economy of rural society. Regional organisations have also pointed out that in the case of Covid, the community will become self-sufficient for long periods of time, including the successful rural unions. The organization says that it will not be resolved without large loans and/or service cuts. This is not true of all the rural communities, but with higher expenditures and a drop of income, too many are headed for trouble. The cost of paying is heavy for the rural population, more than twice as much as the government's budget. It is largely the most organized social and educational services, a legal service that has grown and has continued with increasing demands. This is not the cost of community cuts. This is not an expense we would like to cut down. In fact, some rural communities see a great added load in certain categories of cases just because of Covid. I mention, for example, that a social reality in Reykjavík and Smokeytown is changing rapidly to the worse in too many people. The question is, Where should rural society be cut down, and how should they maintain an unbroken service for disabled people, older citizens, and schoolchildren? Who and how to set priorities if necessary? These are challenging challenges, and, of course, we are responsible, elected agents, whether here at the council or in the local community, to approach them with the interests of the citizens of the community and with the interests of the public, not the administrative patterns of individual rural society and government. Mr. President. Determination in an investment society is designed to counteract the stimulation of the state funds and both the extended and deepening crisis that we are going through. The investment hole in the rural community has been large since the collapse of banks, and it will grow as they are forced to reduce their investment rate in 2025, as is suggested in the government budget. The need for investment may be 100 billion at that time. For good reason, it has been pointed out that supporting less than 5 billion is supported by the government's declaration of financial resistance to rural society is effective. A major step has been discussed by the restoration, that now is the time for the government to be a major success. It's not out of thin air. Economics around the world agree that in the face of public investment, a contraction is needed. It is not likely to be effective in leaving the rural areas, one third of the public companies, left in uncertainty about funding. Therefore, do I ask if a minister agrees that it is important to take action to ensure that important measures are immediately implemented when there is the greatest need to stimulate the job? It is also vital in this situation that we do not lose sight of the urgent challenges we face in the future. How should rural society maintain an investment in necessary infrastructure and the induction of solutions into an electronic future? How should rural society maintain investment in green solutions and other environmental and climate protection? The interview that showed up this morning and I read the highest language. Ministers on rural outbacks, that they had increased the rest of the year. This is positive, but it is not permanent because it is certainly largely a part of government reform and the preconceived public property. The fact is that rural communities can play a key role in the resistance if the cards are properly held. That's why I'm asking if the highest. A minister sees to it that if he responds to a request for less expensive loans to his rural society, he will respond to their financial needs by working to secure his loans at the same cost as the state's funds. Mr. President. I look forward to the highest point of view. Ministers below, as well as any of the members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u33	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson for asking for a group financial discussion. It is time for us to take them up for discussion here at the General Assembly and see what has been done and who should be the way forward in the time of the pandemic. First, I want to know that cooperation between recruitment and the European Union for the sake of the rural society has been very good during this period. Granted, there may be significant differences in action. Right from the start, we jointly consulted in the analysis of financial and likely scenarios for the survival of the year, this year we are on, 2020. A panel who concluded at the end of August thought that the result for the A section of rural funds would aim to become 33 billion inferior to financial programmes, and I would emphasize it, of which 26 billion were due to lower income and higher expenses and more than 6 billion due to increased investments. It was also found that the situation of the rural society is very variable. Many of them have good reasons to cope with the problem, as we all have to do, while others face more difficult situations, including some of them. Because of debt, population development, or other factors. I have requested that the staff be called back together to discuss the situation as it appears these two months later, after he finished work. The good news, however, is that despite a massive drop in income in the state, two of the most important farm stocks in the countryside are likely to increase, both in response and in property taxes between years. A comparison of the development of local payment for the first nine months of the year, and I can actually add the tenth month compared to the same month last year, suggesting that the response will increase by 2% and will be up to 5 billion above last year. It tells me that all the massive measures, and I agree with that. A senator to whom the government has taken over is making a great deal of benefit to the communities. If the government had not been in charge, such as the partial reform pathway or the temporary prolongation of income-related unemployment improvements, corporate sector, maintenance strength, increased investments, etc., the situation would no doubt be very inferior to rural society. Granted, the increase in exposure is much less than expected at the beginning of the year, here I refer to financial plans, but it is still acceptable to the situation. Then some rural areas, especially in the capital area, have the opportunity to make better use of the tax stock. For example, it may have some 700 million higher incomes a year if it fully uses the extracurricular population as many other rural groups have to do. Incomes from property taxes are also increasing by about 5% between years, and this will then reveal how they earn in the process. However, the largest reduction in legal donations from the country due to the less pay of the state's funds has been a much higher income. It aims to reduce about 5% from year to year or about 3.6 billion from what we expect at the beginning of the year. It is mainly affected by rural society, which most depends on the fund, normal, i.e. The rurals of the West and the Northern West. So the prospects are certainly not good, and we would have wanted to see better numbers. This is a burdensome situation for the communities, no question. Still, there is no way to talk about failure in their income. A certain defensive victory is won, but we need to prepare for further trauma. The government will be behind rural society as much as possible so that their activities will not be too corrupt in the months to come and miss. So we made a statement signing a contract on public finances, and we'll keep it. By the declaration, the country's support of the declaration is about 3.3 billion, an average of 3.6 billion in terms of the total income of an equation. But it is also permitted to use 1.5 billion from the balance fund for the general budget this year and the next year. The government sees this support as an important step in supporting the local community, but certainly not the only thing. One thing is certain, though, that at this point we are not going to take general actions that will disseminate money from a government fund to a rural society without regard for their ability to live up to their own legal obligations. It would be irresponsible, as the situation is now at the government fund and irresponsible toward all the inhabitants of the country. The government's priorities are currently providing support for the economy, securing the welfare of the nation's homes and health, preventing increasing unemployment and mass launch. We need to secure jobs and jobs. I've said it here before and I'll say it again. There, countries must stick together and direct their efforts in that direction. We have some ways to do what I might come to and mention at the end of the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u34	Mr. President. I want to thank you for this discussion. It is needed and necessary. Unfortunately, because of the virus's profound effects in rural areas, some of which are normally ready to meet, some of which may not have the means to employ high economic management, e.g. To try to save in his business, and then I own, for example, for administrative business, etc. Of course, that government is closer to supporting the rural population because they do not have the same potential for income support as the government takes over it, and, of course, it has to be improved in some way. So it is happy that a minister will assemble or call on the field of service to help. As a senator from Reykjavík, I am concerned about the capital city, which is the community that should best be at stake and be able to meet this situation. The city's economic situation, after the last few years, is so devastated that the city can't handle it, and unfortunately, there seems to be no local opportunity to save, for example. in the management and management expenses in an effort to improve this condition. When the mayor's president gives an article in a paper indicating that the Covid situation has begun to appear in Reykjavík in 2014, you have to say that this is not credible. However, this should not result in the support of the State of rural society, which really needs help to be withheld. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u35	Mr. President. V.E.G. In his talk, a minister spoke twice as to what was irresponsible. I'm going to stink. It is incompetent to this state's lack of respect for the communities in this condition. It will directly undermine the government's economic government not to come in a more powerful way to help, and someone would now call it pissing in their shoe, but in this case, everyone's taking a piss in the shoes of the country. It is assumed in a financial programme that rural management reduces investment. In fact, the rural communities have been living up to 50% of all public investments in the country. Now they have two options: cutting down a service that is largely legal or cutting down. In many ways, in contrast with the government, communities run like an enterprise with a big difference in construction and business. They have to hit zero, and they won't be able to. They run a lot of our most precious personal service, and cutting it down is not an option. Therefore, they will reduce investments. Government ministers either speak nothing of this matter or speak on a cross. While I'm at the highest. Secretary of Congress wants to change the tax population, which will take many years, asks the secretary of finance for a discussion here last week whether it is best to consider if the rural communities have become too independent. The United States is the only group that has produced proposed actions for the sake of rural society. We've presented it both by the responsible route and by the council resolution we made until the last week, and we'll be measured tomorrow. I recommend the highest. A minister participates in that discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u36	President. I'm also going to thank you for this discussion. I think it's urgent, and we'd like to discuss the local affairs more often because they have basic services that are of enormous importance to us all. I'm also going to celebrate the ultimate. A minister said that the staff should meet again. I think it's very important that we constantly monitor our rural communities during the year we are now looking ahead. I'm going to disagree with the highest words. Ministers to suggest that some rural communities could improve their tax bases. In other words, it's called raising a spell on the population, and I'm against it. If they get away with it, this year they're not supposed to raise the budget on the population, any more than we're doing in the state. That's exactly what we're paying taxes. I think it's urgent that we discuss the equation fund, the complexity of the equation fund, and maybe the fact that we understand it is possible. It is sometimes a joke among the local government that there may be two in the country who really understand the Slurpee Fund of rural society. Of course, it is unacceptable for the local community to be still living with an account regarding the transfer of disabled persons. We need to conclude that after he was transferred to the countryside, he is actually being paid with that group. I'd like to say it's a pleasure to see how many communities have been well fired in recent years and have newer ones to pay off debt and to reduce debt ratios. As a result, they now have considerable space to borrow already in order to support the important services and investments that their communities certainly need to make. But I'd like to, if I especially look at the capital area, to direct it to the highest. Minister to look especially to the settlements, and I'd like to name the Bus house. in this context. [[The president calls.]] Buss. Covid has obviously experienced a high level of income contractions, and I think it's a reason why we in this room look to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u37	Madam President. The reports of rural society and their partner's Association to the budgetary committee on financial and financial programmes clearly explain the problem of Iceland's rural society. The past few years and decades tell the same story, rural income stocks are inexplicable, except for perhaps in good. When income is not needed for legal projects, especially in that condition right now. In fact, the result is a firm bond of charity between a state and a community where the state is full of trumpetings, with trumps from other players on which the government plays out in an effort to legalize community unity. This is the government policy against the citizens of Iceland who perform close-up services and civil democracy. Pirata's policy, however, is a financial policy towards independent societies. Farmers are also expected to receive an answer from a valuable tax, capital tax, corporate tax similar to the state. It motivates the public, for their rural communities, to offer a much more variety of jobs than simply based on a number of population and square meters. This motivates the milk bought out of the store to return something to the local community. This makes it possible for contractors working in the rural community to give something to the local community. It allows such a far greater variety of employment for the rural population to have a much wider income market than we now have and this altruistic bond of charity on which we live. Finally, I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister to answer any questions. Sæmundsson When it is very obvious that the debt of the rural communities around the capital is worse, Dr. [[The president calls.]] If the capital is to be criticized, any other rural society that is in exactly the same situation must be criticized.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u38	Mr. President. The economic effects of the pandemic crown virus have been high and will become even greater, with the greatest economic depression over a long period of time. Despite all the challenges we face, the government has had what remains to believe in the future, that our present situation is temporary. As many as 900 billion debts are expected to get us through the economic difficulties we face. But we must also remember that these debts are borrowed from the future, from our children and grandchildren, and therefore we are under obligation to make the most of our money. The government's actions have been very effective in predicting the situation of the local community. For example, the part - help pathway prevented income from falling as much as it would have done. We have a very powerful system for social security. There's a lot to say about the prolongation of the income-related period. A number of other measures, such as investment incentives, have been made by everyone at work, etc. Farmers have an enormously important service to people at the same time as their income decreases because of the situation. They're not right, they're clear, and they're having a bad time. Some rural communities had problems before Covid-19, and they're the ones that built almost every move they made in travel service and saw the farms collapse in almost one day. The government immediately responded to the latter with a specific contribution. A wide range of talks can be given on why your partner's situation is different, whether income agencies need to be increased, or whether they are fully used. This need to be discussed, and it will be considered, in accordance with the agreement between state and rural society since the beginning of October. I have the same approach to these matters as in others; the circumstances need to be taken into account. How this is done must be clear. Their credit ratings vary, and interest costs vary. It is hardly intended for the state to take extra loans for all the concerned losses of the rural society and to expect any increase in income. The new crowns have to be used, and we do so by looking to situations in each case, as well as by the lack of the fact that the level of government is too dependent on the government, since independence from rural society is very important. There are different equations, e.g. A scaffolding carpet, which is highly dependent on tourism, and Gardatown, which does not fully use all income companies. Our job is to stick together, as soon as we share in making wise use of our funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u39	A respectable president. We'll discuss the community issues of Covid-19. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Fridik's Friðriksson before and after this discussion. Minister. As noted, the rural population is in different positions in the Covid epidemic, and their financial situation is very variable. One picture that has come up and is ugly to society's problems is the condition of the nursing homes. It is completely intolerable that the cost of nursing is not calculated and that the rural communities are one after the other to give up on that operation. Even more ugly is what has happened and is still going on, and this is the forced care of the disabled in nursing homes. The reason the community gives up is because it lacks government funds, it's missing NPA contracts from the state. I ask: How can we at this time, 2020, be in a situation where disabled people are in a nursing home, where there are people in later years, and even young people there who are supposed to be there for many years, young people who are not at home? None of us in this hall, even though we were 67 years old, would want to go into a nursing home, let alone in forced care, at the command of a farm partner or a government fund, because there is no money.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u40	President. Thank you so much for the discussion. To this end, rural support has been limited to a narrowly defined subject, limited to certain rural communities, which the government considers to be the most difficult to deal with as a result of road events and mainly to smaller rural areas. It has truly been necessary to respond to the fact that, as we all know, the blow is fairy tale. I wanted to point out the position our capital is in, for the financial crisis there is heavy and perhaps even the weightier. Sadly, though, economic relations between the state and the city have been marked by the fact that the State does not fully finance its legal assignments. The city is in such a position as other rural groups that there is little room for cuts, with all the major duties of rural society, school affairs, and well - being being determined by law. This forces the rural communities today to cut down investments when they are truly needed and important to the companies and the public in the country. This will directly address the government's economic actions. In view of the government's response in terms of the state level of government, when you consider it, is a skimmering of OECD's economic counsel and the course of other northern countries. You wonder, " How can that be? ' I sincerely hope that there is not some political fox behind the city because there are others in the government besides the government. The government's support of rural society is now necessary for the State's fighting of action, otherwise the negative status of the rural community will counteract the impact of economic action. Therefore, I would like to encourage the government to take greater steps in behalf of the local community immediately. Interpretation of temporary supportive measures, tax action, advising access to loans. I'm pointing to Denmark, I'm pointing to Norway, I'm pointing to Sweden. Here the same principle applies to recovery. I encourage those in charge to look into this, because this includes and will include supporting the basic services that the people of the country need and sticking to every day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u41	V.E.G. President. Give up the apocalyptic, what. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín's Friðriksson Fridik's character is a good basis for this discussion, which I thank for and the highest. And the Minister of Staff for his in-laws as well. In terms of national interest, the activities of rural society are considerable, approximately 393 billion in 2019 or approximately One third of the total government fees. These are 13.2% of the value creation in one year. The profits of the rural society were 381 billion and 12 billion, respectively. In turn, the years 2017 and 2018, updating, were similar. There is a firm and obvious weakness in financing the model. The stocks are stuck, the legal services are rising, and there is a built - in weakness in the equation of the economy, lowering at the same time as local operating costs are increasing. This needs to be examined, and that's what we're gonna do. This should be taken into account in relation to the position, size and strength of the local community, since it is undisputed how important it is when both government funds and rural groups, which make up the public, as well as companies, public companies, are fully able to balance their balance role in these situations. Everyone understands, and it sounds to me during the discussion here that everyone agrees with the economics. The question is, How do we approach it? Of course, that's the way it must be, like the highest. A minister made good progress, that the price will be based on numbers and data, taking into account the actions that have already been taken to cope with the economy. We must give support to the local community in line with the need and where it lies.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u42	Mr. President. It appears that the arrival of rural society will be up to 40 million. K. Less time after Covid exposure than before. This is according to a report on the financial status of the rural community. Of course, this will have a predictable effect for the long future on their business and survival. The government has recently introduced additional support to the rural community to $2.8 billion and is the total support of the state in terms of an estimate of 4.8 billion, if I include figures in the presentation of this report. Let's do more than much, for all of us, for the government, for the government's side of the government, do more than less. Is that doing more? So how little would it be, Mr. President? They talk about scenarios, modified scenarios, different scenarios, analyses, further analyses, working groups, reorganized groups, assigning more and more tasks to the staff. Clearly, the situation of rural society is very variable, some of which have been experiencing little depression as a result of the viral epidemic while others are having difficulty. There may be additional explanations, e.g. A debt in individual rural areas, to form in Reykjavík, where people can no longer carry out their legal assignments. However, the world's most professional situation is Snow Valley and Thomson Jellies, as well as unemployment on Southnes. What do governments intend to do about these communities? Will they pass this opportunity as we watched government response to the plans of the Atlantic Alliance building in Helga? [[The president calls.]] Will the government allow the opportunity to slip, as it did? [[The president calls.]] There, our efforts to combat unemployment, where it is the most, slipped out of our hands the opportunity to cope significantly with Southnes. [[The president calls.]] This was refused because of a political barrier.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u43	Mr. President. I am deeply concerned about the situation of the local community, especially those who have had to take on the biggest offense. I have previously said that from this chair, I do not understand why. A government draws its feet in support of its rural communities. Both the highest. District Ministers and economic and economic ministers have shown a great lack of understanding in my opinion of the management of larger rural groups and their work culminating in a professional crisis. April 22th. Had a drink. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einar Einarsson, chairman of the United States, voice station at the highest level. The minister of the local government on the problem of local society that was immediately faced with them when he asked how the government was going to exercise itself, but there was no answer at that time. Anyone who's been involved in rural society must realize that many societies will not be able to run without government support. It must be much greater and more efficient than the highest. A minister described earlier in his speech. With the direct support of the State to rural society, surgery in close - up services and further reductions in activities may be avoided by extension. It is good to be both professionally in a financial crisis but also because a recession in the community welfare services calls for longer - term increases in the cost of the state. Government planning, which allows it to interfere with the transfer of people from where they don't get jobs or social services, or who live in recesses serving children, disabled people, and others who trust in the service of the local communities, is insane. It is one of the priorities of the United States that the General shall order the government to prepare and implement measures aimed at supporting the rural areas due to the pandemic situation and that the state meets the rural communities both through the equations and through direct donations due to an outcast.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u44	Mr. President. There is reason to thank for this discussion and also reason to agree with what has happened to many speakers today, that it is very important in these difficult situations that are now that conversation and cooperation are taking place between the state and the local community regarding measures to cope with the economic crisis we now face. The crisis, which is about to become one of the deepests we've experienced in the past 100 years, will affect our rural communities as well as others, and it can't be expected that the state can only take a huge loan, as it is sometimes heard in the discussion, and then distributed money to the rural society to fully improve the losses they suffer because of the circumstances. It is not quite so simple that such matters can be taken care of. However, it is true that rural society plays an important role in society. They maintain an important work that, of course, needs to be guarded. A search must be made together to find solutions to this problem. However, it is of interest to note, too, that in general, many of the farm society's income stocks have not yet given up or have at least given less than they expected. Of course, the largest income force in the countryside is an expansive and real estate fee, and both have gone up, basically contrary to what we expected. However, the situation of rural society is very variable in this respect, both in terms of income and expenses, and this needs to be taken into account in this cooperation between the state and the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u45	President. I don't know any better than the mayors of the rural population who are in the Kragaan, the Southwestern district, that we spoke on Monday at a telecommunication for a district week, saying that the actions planned by this government are not enough. I understood that they were not even sufficient for legal service. So the question is, What will the government, the minister, do more? I think it'd be nice to have it very clear from the highest level. Minister. Is he starting to look at it? What is he going to do more? Has the government begun to discuss what more should be done? The board contains suggestions from the manager. There could be more to do, e.g. the state could borrow. It may not be just to distribute the money, but it is now called for strength. One of the factors mentioned by the lead general is to lend the money to the locals for these better terms. True, if I correctly understood this, it would have consequences for decades or more on the financial situation of these rural communities. But what is missing in this answer is what the government is at the head of the government. A minister is going to do more and to see if she has begun to do so. It does not seem possible to perform a legitimate service. What is the responsibility of the minister and of this government when so? The legislation on the revenue of the rural community is set up at the General Parliament and then initiatived with a financial minister when it comes to spending money and then the tax or income resources of a community to live up to their duties. So the question is, what's going to happen? Minister to do more? What is expected is not enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u46	President. I am happy with this discussion, for I have felt that the discussion of these matters has been quite confusing. Since I am a simple man, I try to take a subject and try to slip it down into something I understand. To me, the situation is three times in terms of support, loan, or what we call it, how we met our rural communities. First of all, we are talking about long - term rural institutions, national and rural boundaries, and how we're going to keep them. There is talk that always takes place, and, yes, the situation now affects it. But it is not the immediate discussion that we are in today, even though it may have been colored at times. Second, we're talking about support, strength from state to community, all of the people of the country, for the state is nothing more than that, including the inhabitants of the countryside, supporting the rural communities with strength from the state. And then third, we're talking about some kind of loan, as we've been talking about here. Aggression is very variable. Farmers make different use of their means of earning income. For example, a community that uses its chances completely to the top is in a different place from a rural society that does not. Companies have different levels of tea. The situation is very different. That's why I find it very normal to sit down over all these matters, and they look at the three things I mentioned at the outset, but not all horny together, saying, "This is how farm society is, the state needs to do something. That's not the way the discussion should be in my mind. I am absolutely convinced that before the land is completely restored, we will have been better settled over it and will reach some conclusion, so the rural communities will be better than right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u47	A respectable president. We're discussing the local business here, and unfortunately, I think that in this discussion, we also need to take seriously the issues of disabled people. I think it was in 2011 that services to disabled persons were transferred to the local communities, and since then there have been reports that the funds are not enough. Sadly, in good times, the causes of disabled people always seem bitter, and I fear that they will be cut down at first right now. I can already see them in the discussion that's been in touch with NAPA contracts, etc. In this context, we also need to make sure that our rural society and the state do not have to have a hole in their hands, and that between those who are least responsible, we can expect that our rural communities will face a great need for financial support during the current year. There is also the need to respond because we know that the situation is bad out there. A large group of people hardly have food for one another, prices, and worse conditions. Children and adolescents are in a much more sensitive position because of school, and it was observed in the community that certain groups of youths are made up of certain schools and because of what the situation is. A large group of young people can't go to school in the usual way, and these are issues that we need to fit because this is our future generation and we are to make sure that it comes first. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u48	Mr. President. Thank you for having a great discussion here. It recognizes that much work is not done, and it is equally clear that government approach and response to the financial problems of rural society need a measure of superiority and improvement. The importance of the investment of rural society is undisputed, especially because of the involvement with the government's resistance programmes. I kind of let this discussion be over with me, and it's been very clear, and I know, and I believe that it will respond. I'd like to mention it as a dog. The head of the budget board spoke of as a weakness in the country's income model. I agree. But there is also a weakness in the situation now to assume that your behind-the-counting partner will stay out of this Covid period and will cover higher spending requirements. Salivation is higher due to income-related unemployment improvements and pre-imbursed pensions, as has been done, but these are temporary measures. It is also so that high - paying expenses from a rural partner will be increased in the near future because of the increase in pay. We need to have a look at this. That's for sure. We face a longer and shorter challenge, and if we do not now complete the short - term challenge, if we mix it together, we create real problems for a long time. That's the situation. While I can take my heart to the importance of making good use of the money and building up my professional life, I would also want to perceive more emphasis from a minister that the local community's basic services were at stake. Part of this service varies from country to village. On one hand because it was misunderstood and, on the other, due to the decline in social consequences of Covid on the inhabitants of different rural communities. That's where the emphasis should be. Our basic schools won't get in the way of these Covid epidemics, our children, our teenagers, the students of these same schools, will not come together. That is where this service is to be done. This is a legal community service. In this room, we are under obligation to make sure that she will not just hang out but that she will be exemplary. [[The president calls.]] This is the real treatment of funds in the Covid epidemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u49	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion, even though you can't agree with all the statements presented here. For example, it is obvious that we are identifying the need and directing the support to the intended destination. I've got a report from OECD, an overview of it, and we can pick up almost all the points there, we're actually working on what's going on there. In the efforts we have so far, the extent to which our rural society has probably been exposed, not to 15 billion, but to 15 billion. When people talk about being small, they simply don't do it right. In terms of community debt, the majority of rural partners have an acceptable status. The national debt ratio was 105% last year. The maximum is 150%, as you know. If the rural communities combined the debt would increase by 15 billion, this percentage would go from 105% to 108%, it would increase by 3 percent. The debt ratio of part A- Reykjavíkurburg is 91%, and if the community took 10 billion loans, it would reach 100%, which is, however, considerably below the average. So there is much to do. The loan fund of Icelandic rural society, after the changes we made in us, is a pair of people with the state, can provide loans of considerable strength and size of very low interest in an environment that is the interestliest environment in history. Then, choosing your own ways is the community itself. Yes, they are independent, and they differ from rural communities in other parts of the North countries. They want to be independent. Today, the wealth of congregations increases the rhythms, which is the subject of another discussion that I cannot take now but would be very interesting to take. The situation may vary, but the 500 million that we are involved in the declaration, to help most vulnerable rural communities, will be useful. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] 670 million people in disabled persons's affairs will be used, 720 million in financial support for rural areas now increasing will be most effective. [[The president calls.]] In fact, there are only 600 million that the balance fund will survive after the actions taken this year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u50	The President looks like the best. Ministers must also follow their deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u51	V.E.G. President. I apologize to the President for letting him stand for so long, but now the members of the council are all over the house demanding the government, so the person here has to have several ways to get here on this matter. There's a committee opinion on the bill to legalize the General Assembly Act, No. 55/1991, with subsequent changes, on the telecommunications of committees. In short, the bill has been legally binding in the condition we experience, that it is possible to have an Internet meeting or telecommunication at some particular time, as follows. It is listed as why, with the permission of a president, such as for health or disease reasons, because of transportation problems or health problems, or when meetings are held outside the council's program. When we talk about transport problems, we, Mr. President, are saying that as well as well, a number of delegates live outside the capital area, and it happens in winter that it is difficult for them to arrive here, e.g. on Monday mornings, because there is not always evidence to row by flight. It's put in so that in what case we can have telecommunications. As we all know in this room, changes in various laws have been required because of the state of the world and will exist here for some time, unfortunately. And as we know, Mr. President, it has been said that there is a lack of the power or confidence in the strictness of the laws of the disease in order to stand firm when arrangements are being made at present in regulations and even directives. Of course, this too is vital. The general Assembly itself responded naturally as it has done in this situation, i.e. to try to ensure by all means that there is no interference with the council. We take action that there will be no breach in the council, and even if it is so bad that people around here would have been infected below us, and that's why we're scattered all over the house as well. According to a committee article, the committee discussed the case and obtained a visit to the lady in Luf Laufey, Helga Guðmundsdóttir, Stígur Stefánsson and Þórhallur Vilhjálmsson from the Aldulis Office. It says here: ▪ Parliamentary regulations assume that the Generals are obliged to attend committee meetings, cr. 1.mg. 17th .. and has been understood to include a member of the committee at a committee meeting if he is present. During today's Korean years, temporary variations have been issued from judicial obligations and the conclusions of a meeting with the committee. This was done to create members of the general body of Congress a condition to handle committee duties despite bans and restrictions. The experience of the staff of the General Assembly has given rise to the warrant for the general council to participate in committee work using telecommunications under certain circumstances. Therefore, a denominator who employs the warrant will be able to participate in a decision-making committee and vote for a case, have the right to propose, and come to other council decisions. The bill does not imply a fall from the principle that committees are in a meeting place. However, they will be allowed to participate in a meeting with telecommunications equipment. This may be health issues involving the senator himself, the causes of disease, the illnesses of children or other caregivers, the problems of transportation, or the irregular meeting of committees. It may be noted that there were some discussions on this point regarding the health of the generals and the family. It was, for example. find that it should be in here that if a senator is at home with a sick child, he will be at the same moment or on the same day attending a meeting with an international telecommunications committee when he is supposed to be taking care of his child. Of course, the Senate is confident that members of the Parliament themselves will determine when they are able to attend such meetings as any other meeting. Of course, it is available for members of the General Assembly, as one knows, to bring in a substitute if such circumstances include illness. The proselytism of the work is in a way that the senator himself must make a decision in such a situation, for the committee states that this is not being viewed as an incentive for a senator to participate in meetings if illness is either between himself or a family, such a decision is under the authority and responsibility of each senator. It's just like any other act of Congress. A senator's work is naturally different from all other jobs so that the senator himself must take responsibility for himself on every occasion and on every occasion. It also says, by permission of the president: ▪ In view of the greater part, the bill contains an important step toward improving the condition of members of Congress. In addition, in each case, visitors have a choice between telecommunications and localities. Thus, the majority stress that the General ensures that there is an advanced telecommunication mechanism and that the capacity of the Parliament will continue to be enhanced by up-to-date software and technology. In this case, the necessary technical knowledge of the equipment and the maintenance of the knowledge of the members of Congress must be assured of the best way to manage telecommunications. In order to benefit both members of the council and visitors, it is important that there be a good opportunity for telecommunications in every meeting room in the council. This is what the committee's opinion really contains, Mr. President. But I say again: Of course, many of the measures taken by the council have been taken quickly because of the urgency of the circumstances. But like the highest. The President knows everyone best, the jurist is out of experience, and the council needs to have a solid ground like the rest of us. All of us and the government need to keep a firm ground when it comes to action that is needed because of the conditions that have developed because of the crown virus. We assume, as in the past, that when law is passed at the Council, it will come into force in a predictable future. Of course, such a change needs to be made clear by experience. If we notice at some point that these things, as they are installed, will be a problem, whether that is the principles that I used to reference to sickness, etc., or others, we simply need to pick them up. I have no faith that this will happen, but of course we need to be ready to change what is being done here in case of a reason. After reading this, I'm telling you that this case should be handled through the council. It is important that all of us have a solid foundation of legality, let alone the Lawgiver, and we have a natural pattern in the setting of laws so that there will be no shame or error in this regard. Therefore I command, as I say again, that this matter shall not pass through the council, and we accept it the first.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u52	Mr. President. I'm measuring the opinion of the lower percentage of administration and monitoring committees in this case. I think it's time to start by saying that in each of the smaller parts, we basically agree with the greater part on the importance of bringing the time-realized sources that have been discovered far away during the past few months, in steady terms, by legally binding them. It also reflects the natural development that occurs when unprecedented conditions begin to develop to some extent. In fact, it is very timely to create some frame around the Intercommunications Committees, not just for us, the members of the Committee itself, to attend meetings in such a way but also for our guests to be able to participate in meetings with telecommunications. It doesn't matter much when people go a long way, often because of a brief meeting, though they may be urgent. You should also state that this bill is not intended to include any general authority for members of the Parliament to participate in committee meetings with telecommunications. In fact, what we in the smaller section are suggesting is that we take the matter down a little bit and bring closer to the project that has been in our crowning season. The reasons given in the bill that form the right members of Congress to attend a meeting with telecommunications are, in fact, three types. First, the reasons for this are the reason why, and I think we can all agree that this is important, especially because of the causes of disease, a person otherwise completely healthy may have to stay away from other people in order to protect it. Hence, it is only natural for us to meet people who need to stay on guard in order to protect themselves from the rest of us. Then, in this bill, we add a new reason that might account for some form of uncontrollable or unpredictable external event, e.g. Because of transport disorders or when meetings are held outside the work programme, which often happens lightly. These are reasons why different people meet in different parts of the country. By attaching this authority to the law, members of the Parliament can be tied to their job position. Then there is the third type of reason which is the case that we in the smaller part are not willing to submit to the bill's access rights. These are health issues involving a member of the body of self and the health of children or other caregivers. If a senator's illness is well - equipped but wants to avoid presence with his colleagues, it might lead to simply falling under the Embarrasia of the bill. On the other hand, if the illness is only sick or has a sick child in your arms all day long, it is normal to associate with such illness, as other working people do and not work that day. In this regard it is also good to remind that all members of the committee can bring in the members of the committees in which they sit, and therefore one member's illness should not cause any disturbances in the activities of the Synod Committee. We are not essential that we have to attend every meeting. But it's also part of a bigger context. Along with the positive revolution in the use of telecommunications in the community, we need to keep our eyes on the negative results that may be the result. One of them is how work - related to personal life - is likely to be restored once the job is inside the home. If we draw up a physic view of the future, that trend might go even further and even be encouraged to do what is done in spite of the illness or the children. It would simply be a setback for the sick conditions that people in a public and public labour market have fought for. Today, the General General is not a traditional workplace and argument about employment rights is not directly relevant to our members, but it is important that the Council be well - exampleed rather than open up some discussion about the natural nature of surrendering health rights. These are the main elements of our committee's list in the smaller part of the management and monitoring committee which consists of the ones being included here and why. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Andri Thorsson. We suggest, a respectable president, that the words of a health care or a sick person simply fall away from this bill, but that they will be accepted otherwise.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u53	President. A person's illness can be a lot of things. They can be some of the root causes, now or a crown virus infection, or whatever it is called today, but they can also be different and different. They may be Cronian, a member of Parliament may have a degenerative disease, cancer, or multiple sclerosis. Senators can break or put on their backs, some things can happen to members of the council. Individence differs from many other jobs, so if occasional feelings of inadequacy interfere with being present at the workplace, there may be a possibility, if people want them to work at home. I've used it in a different job than this, but Congress doesn't offer it, do I? That's what I'm talking about. A senator resists the fact that a man with cancer, a leged senator, a member of MS, who is not entirely counting on the committee stage or is going into all the trouble that comes with it, but would like to participate in the work, be allowed to do so? Trust 'em. A senator did not have trouble with others. Councilmen protecting their own sickly rights, those of us who have the legal rights, the capital, the government account? Trust 'em. Not a senator to protect himself from illness?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u54	A respectable president. As I was saying in my speech, it's not about the medical rights of members of Congress. It's about us sending the message out to the community that there's no cure. Opening this source is just a much wider step than establishing the source that has been in force since the outbreak. I think it's worth a lot of observation to have a general warrant for a telecommunication without conditions. But that's just not what we're talking about here. That's why we should take the idea of telecommunications when people are temporarily weak. The question is, would this senator not trust people to evaluate their own condition on whether they can attend telecommunications or not? I just want to ask you back, trust me. A senator's appreciation for this is not limited to whether to attend a telecommunications meeting? There are five details that provide the authority to use telecommunications in the Council Committee work. What lack of confidence is there in trusting people to evaluate them just to see if they need to attend a telecommunication or if they can attend a local meeting? I think we should take a discussion on that trust.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u55	President. Usually, this indicates that you have become discouraged and cannot continue to follow the lines of conversation when you choose not to answer questions but, rather, choose your own questions and ask back questions. That's the cheap way for politicians. They're old-fashioned politics, and I'm bored with them. Yes, we can spend these embarrassing discussions here, if that's true. A senator wants it, and beginning to discuss it at some other point, in a larger context and, yes, have some saying ability there. That's very nice. But I'm asking who. A senator, Mr President, to the contrary. If he does not want to answer that question, of course he is correct. I respect him, just as I respect it if he, for any reason, does not rely on him to attend. If he doesn't have 100% on that day, but I would like to be part of a case or to ask a guest or whatever it is that I trust. A senator not to overdo his own medical rights so that harm will result. In case of a moment. A senator's claim is that there should be no right, no need for telecommunications, then the medical rights would probably be in there too, wouldn't they, Mr. President? I like it. A senator came in a bit in an effort to avoid answering simple questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u56	A respectable president. I didn't expect to be accused of ambiguous or old - time politics in what I thought was just a normal debate over the matter. But this is how the day - to - day form may offend members of the council, such as other people. On one occasion, I took a health permit from Congress, was retired for two weeks. I had to file a doctor's proof that I had been sick, couldn't have done work for health reasons. I did not view it as distrust. I don't quite understand why we've come to some debate about whether I trust any members of the council about the other or so. If members of Congress are sick, I trust them to be physically ill at home, as is normal when people are ill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u57	A respectable president. I'm here to discuss a brief bill to legalize the laws of the General Assembly, a telethon of committees. I support the case and the opinion of the greater part of the administration and monitoring committee that has been identified here, as it is long since the time to clarify the authority to the telecommunications committees. In my opinion, it has taken way too long to establish effective telecommunications at the council, especially with regard to the interests of the members of the council. What I especially want to establish here is the importance of securing and maintaining good technology so that effective telecommunications will be provided, although we may be able to get out of the condition we are in right now where telecommunications are a principle. It has been observed, in the management and monitoring committees on the matter, that it is assumed that in all cases guests can choose between remote and local meetings, but I think that it might be very useful for visitors to see that there is a clear basis and guidance on the participation. It would benefit everyone and ensure even greater efficiency. In order for this to go on into the future, I also believe that all the meeting rooms in the Committee area need to be prepared for telecommunications so that they are equipped with specialized telecommunications for such meetings. And of course, programs need to be maintained and the best technology at any given time. Words I'd like to introduce here in the speaker's chair. I'm not sure that was ever mentioned here. Fjords are robots, like. is used in the University of Akureyri, which ensures that students in flexible studies are actually able to travel through university buildings and be more visible and more visible at meetings and in groups, although they are not there, they are linked through some kind of telecommunication, which is then in this case alien species. I can see that the council would have to have these faraway creatures. A robot that could be used where, for example, could be used. one or two members of the committee are participating in telecommunications, but a greater proportion of the participants are present. Thus, they would be more active in meetings and visible ones, and there would be no chance that they would actually forget that someone is at a telecommunication. Experience has shown that this is one way to make telecommunications much more efficient than they were for a long time. In addition to ensuring the technology and knowledge of it, it is also very important that at all times there are guidance and that members of Parliaments and other directors are trained in managing telecommunications. Of course, this is quite different from conducting a routine meeting where everyone is present. As I said at the beginning, I'm glad we've got a frame of authority for telecommunications, which we have to be very alert to move forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u58	Mr. President. I'm just gonna keep this brief, but I was reminded of one thing when it happened. A senator was here in a pita. I guess. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir Linger is not one of us who lives far away from the Eastfield at the present council and therefore has a very cronous experience with the extent of being able to attend meetings through telecommunications. But there is one point that I don't think is covered in the documents that I want to touch. It's confidential data and their delivery at the meeting. We're still struggling to do it through computer equipment. There is still a need for a presence to receive data that is committed to special confidentiality. I just wanted to hear from the senator how urgent she feels to be caught so that all meetings can be arranged, including those who receive confidential information.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's particular reason for bringing this up, since I had actually thought to mention it, but it happened. Credential information is just one of the things we haven't found a way to communicate through telecommunications, but it's certainly a system that allows it. Now, in a variety of social activities, both elections and votes take place on telecommunications, which are then closed and highly secure. Similarly, there are ways to share confidential information. I think that's one of the things that must be planned to ensure the best telecommunications at any given time, and it needs to be. In this regard, at all times we need to be alert to be able to resolve all matters in this way. We never know when it is a real challenge, and then, of course, it gives us countless opportunities for us to make full use of all the opportunities that technology offers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u60	President. It's a good bill. This is a small step but a necessary step in the right way to ensure the ability of members of Congress to monitor how cases are being handled here at the council, which is a major part of the committee's work. For Covid, the principle was that if a member of the council could not attend a meeting in person, he had no right or ability to observe the discussion there. As a result, the Piratars have repeatedly called upon the general opening of the committees of the Generals. It's impossible for you to miss one meeting in a case that causes interest stakeholders to talk to members of the Parliament about how to conduct legislation in this country. The public cannot know that when it is not written, the impact of stakeholders on national legislation is influenced by the public. Usually, all of this is shut - up. If you are trying to monitor, to observe, to observe, and to do so professionally and cannot attend one meeting, you may have missed the necessary information to make an informed decision. The committee or decisions on the outworking of the situation are being made, and then you cannot do your job. Therefore, the meetings and general meetings, especially when stakeholders come and influence senators on how legislation should be conducted in this country, should be open to the public, it should only be television. In many parts of the world, they are put on television, and everyone can follow the discussion that takes place. If members of Congress want to close meetings and discuss with one another, they could do so, but in general, the meeting should be open. According to this bill, committee meetings are generally closed, I don't talk about decision-making and counciling between members, but in spite of that, members of Congress can come into a telecommunication under certain circumstances. This was started at Covid, and it was necessary to do so because of the preventative measures. This has been done so that there have been certain articles in the Senate games, which are the rules of the games, saying: Yes, people must attend, but we are going to make an exception for some time now, and humans may be allowed to attend telecommunications and make good decisions and offer suggestions even if they are not there. They are active and are allowed to participate fully in telecommunications conferences through telecommunications equipment. This is now being legalized and expanded a little more than just because of the disease prevention. As far as I'm concerned, all members of the committee and those who have discussed the matter in 1st. Would you agree that this is a good idea, as expressed in Article 1? However, the bill is allowed to participate in a committee meeting using telecommunications equipment at specific times, and there are some factors listed. Everyone seems to agree on the cause of the disease, that's one reason. Another reason for transportation. This is an important point in view of the fact that people do their districts, are going to their families, and may encounter problems of transportation that prevent a person from coming in person at a committee meeting, and, of course, it is necessary that they can do so by telecommunications. One reason is also when meetings are held outside the council's work programme. It may be important to present a meeting on a short notice, e.g. to handle the role of the council, which is highly ambiguous when the council is not meeting, i.e. inquiry, etc. they're just gone. It is, in fact, only the committees that can actively play a watch role with the Commission, one of the most important roles of the council, i.e. to ensure that the legislation that has been established here at Congress is actually carried out by the Commission. So it is important, as follows, that when meetings are held outside of the council's work programme, a meeting can be announced and the members of the committee could come and do their part there. Very important. Everybody seems to agree on this. What I hear from Andrés Ingi Jónsson and the Guðmundur of Andri Thorsson, who are on the minority opinion - I'm on the majority opinion, and I'm on all these issues - this is a matter of health issues or illness. I totally understand the viewpoints that appear in the minority and that have been presented here on sickness rights, etc. It would have been possible to set up some kind of provision to try to make sure that it was not a violation of the sick, I don't see how it would look exactly, but there are just so many circumstances where a senator's health status is so that he can still do the job at a telecommunication, like, for example. broken leg or if it goes in your back. Senators, the major part of them, are likely at the age of one, or some musculoskeletal problem may arise, so I would not want to be in the situation that such things would, because of the way the arrangement is, make you just not be able to participate. You will not be able to get the information presented in the meeting but are needed to make a well - informed decision. The best would be natural, like a dog. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson came up with this as a rule in all circumstances, you just decide if you're going to a telethon or not. Of course, it is possible to do so. But those who made this case are those who sit on the presiding committee and are perhaps, I would think, when you cross it, with conservative people here at the council, I don't know. It may be just the progressive ones who would want to transfer the warrant entirely to members of Congress, that they themselves choose to attend a telecommunications meeting, but it is possible. It is possible, indeed, and very effective, to do a job via telecommunications. Personally, I'd like to take this all the way. However, I support all of the steps taken here to increase the authority of members of the Committee to participate in committee meetings with full rights on all of these grounds; on the grounds of communicatives, transport problems, non-work programmes, and on the health of the Parliament or the health of its members. You may have very different illnesses and you can handle very many situations, even if you have the sound in your ear, etc. However, I fully understand the viewpoints that were presented, but I would not want to limit those rights, for Congress officials have always the right to say, "I won't show up. " They always have the right to care for those they have to care for because of illness. It's just a warrant. If circumstances do not allow them to attend, but they could do both, they have the right and the right to do so, and they do not have to call and be allowed to be at a teleportation or ask to listen to the meeting that may not be permitted. There you can be sure that you can do your job better. So I support the case as it was proposed by the majority of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u61	A respectable president. However, as horrible as this fucking virus is, there are certain things that can be removed from this condition that we have learned, and there have been good things. One such factor is the development of telecommunications. As a member of the Presidency Committee, I carried this bill and supported it. I wanted to guess here, and I also did so on the Presidency Committee at the time, that I had been willing to put the point just on the fact that the members of the committee are allowed to participate in committees with telecommunications, that there would be no need for further reviews. [[Up front.]] I didn't know exactly what to do. A senator who was here before me, Jón Þór Ólafsson, was leaving in the beginning. But by the end of that talk, I realized that we were deeply agreeing on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u62	You're the liberal arm.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u63	I look at it, right because it's a rather conservative institution and I know it's hard for many people to find us in telecommunications and even complicated, that this is a very important step we're taking here. So I rejoice and support it fervently, but I also assume that the next step will be further developed, and there will be no special reason for this. I think that would make all of us feel better. I'd also like to direct it to the economy and to develop institutions to use telecommunications as much as possible. I think that after that time we all agree that this will never take the place of human relations, but there are a number of factors that can be handled by telecommunications, which may be of considerable benefit. I am a member of the capital area, and one of our major projects has been transport and intensive transportation in the rush, which we have seen much less now in Covid. This is one way, however, that people are not going in exactly the same time, all of them coming to work at eight or nine o'clock, but they can keep their work hours more liquid so that each individual can give it more attention according to his family standards. That's what I said. I support this bill, and I consider it a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u64	Mr. President. I recommend here to the Committee on the Economic and Business Commission... with a change in bill... to legalize the change in financial support laws to the less staff on the basis of a pandemic crown virus. - I'm the boss. Mr President, are you sure you're not right?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u65	President hopes so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u66	As mentioned earlier, the committee was contacted by a representative of the Ministry, the IRS, and the emissary. The bill suggests the continuation of closing grants to the operators in need of the valves or to cancel their operations or services from September 18, 2020. It is suggested that the measures taken up to the mid-D201, and is expected to need to be revised before the end of the first quarter of 2021, taking into account the circumstances and the progress of the pandemic. Case review provided suggestions for changing the bill with the aim of reaching more people, such as those in the restaurant sector, who have suffered a major loss of income from the Coron viral epidemic and the government's disease prevention procedures without the complete shutdown. Along with the Commission's discussion of the continuation of lock concentrations, the Committee discussed a bill for a law on revenue levels 212. The Committee suggests a change in the bill that includes... is intended to address the above views. The committee suggests changes that include... That's because of the tip of the IRS bill. The changes are included in the Commission's opinion and suggest that the bill be agreed with these changes. Under the heading, everybody writes to the committee, why. Óli Björn's Kárason, Jólmur, Jón, Brabbur the Valdimarsson of Níelsson, Bryndís the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, Harðardóttir G.; Hardydótt, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, Smári Mccarthy, and Willum Þórsson Tursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn Kárason's history for the Commission's opinion. It's one thing, one statement I like about not showing up in the committee opinion and specific viewpoints that it has to do with the review. It's from the company of HHB&W ehf. and focus mainly on young enterprises which, therefore, mismanagement of income and income and the regularity of the project. I wanted to ask you what. The reviewer of the committee whether these points and comments were discussed with some depth in the committee and whether it was a special decision not to take these views into consideration. See what? A senator assumes that a company in a position comparable to that described there are no other solutions to attend?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u68	Mr. President. The short answer is: The committee discussed this very closely. It takes a while to explain that worrying about what the company has does not have. We received confirmation from the Skatti that when the date of operation starts - that is what the person was pointing to - is always relative to the time the company's payroll was recorded, even though the law is absolutely clear that eight days before operating should be recorded on both a credit bill and on a remuneration file. This committee's legal initiative in 2002 made this adjustment. There is also a law in the c- team 3. The bill that grabs these companies, i.e. that in the case of the operator who falls under the 3rd measure, etc. it is permitted that income should be at least $350,000. during this period. It is therefore meet with a company that starts a good deal later than a bill of merit taxation, as shown in the case of the company, which is the basis for registration of pay, which should be strictly taken at about the same time, but at worst, it is taken into account that there are about 350,000. at least which can be expected to be each month during the work period.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason. Perhaps to fill this up: Did a special discussion in the Economic and Business Committee whether there were many enterprises falling outside of the box and receiving one or another no from the tax or from the person involved in these applications? Was it discussed in the Committee whether it would be common for companies who feel that they have a right or a claim to support this rule? Or is it a total perimeter situation? And because I have time, that's why I'm asking about this because I think I hear a lot about a company being either saying no altogether or that they had to spend a considerable amount of money dealing with the government. Thus, much of the strength, or depending on the individual loans, will simply be fed by law or by incident review costs to deal with this government. Has this occurred in the work of the Committee? What's the stand? A senator to these problems I give myself that he's heard about?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u70	Mr. President. In these and other matters, people can seek justice, and such cases have occurred. I think I'm right about it, but it has to be said in a moment's notice that now the head taxpayer has four cases, the manager's complaints, who feel they have a right to the closing grants from spring. I assume the head taxing committee will clear it up quickly and well. The cost of such measures should be minor. I will give commendation to the taxots especially for the way he has carried out his work as an office when it comes to the closing power and other provisions he has been assigned to perform. They have been striving to do it simple, to make the whole process transparent, and to be electronic. I think other government agencies and other services might look to the government and the tax, the taxpayer, the government manager, the way he operates in the service of employment and will do all he can to sail through this epidemic that all of us are fighting against.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u71	Mr. President. I want to take this opportunity here, when this case is being discussed, and the next case, to point out that in the course of the moment. A financial and business committee was successful in cooperation and agreement on how to fix and improve these issues. The result? As a result, all of us on the committee came to agree on the matter. I think this is just another fine example of how important it is that committees work well, try to cooperate, and work together as a team to find adequate solutions. Of course, such matters as these will likely be late enough for everyone to be completely happy, or they may not be able to raise any market situation that may cause dissatisfaction. But I assure you that the committee worked hard to make it as well as possible. That's what I wanted to make a presentation. At the same time, I would like to use this opportunity to sharpen us, and especially the governments, in order to try harder to follow the course of disease prevention, which, of course, is about, and their consequences, in a timely way, in plans for how, or maybe we should start by saying whether and then how, will respond to the impact that the measures may have on business in this case. I think it's very urgent, and I think we can do better. I think the government can do better than that. Now we can say that in some ways we are becoming quite accustomed to living with this condition, this virus. We have come to realize that there may be mood swings and have been mood swings in the way we react. Sometimes action needs to be taken, and it may take some time, and then it comes back to them. So I would like to use this opportunity to sharpen the government's ability to set up visual images, as is often mentioned, and that people look ahead and say to themselves, " If this situation comes back or is more effective or less effective, we will do this. ' Then a statement to the companies in the country we are talking about now can be made about how they will be done. Then there is no need to be, as it has sadly been - at first it was only normal - but it will be less and less excuse for the fact that, at the last minute and even after the last minute, matters are being resolved here that have a major impact on the decisions to make in the workplace, in the economy, because of this. I think it's very important, and I wanted to come up here to sharpen the government's efforts to improve these activities, as we'll subtract from the fact that this has to be done at the last minute. We reduce the fact that there is a problem. We reduce anxiety and worry, and we reduce the fact that even measures are taken in the future that will not be necessary. That's what I'd like to say, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u72	Mr. President. I hereby recommend the Committee for Economic and Business Committee members on deck. 259 on the bill for the income drop-down bill. As mentioned in the Committee, the Commission was contacted by representatives from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Skatti, and various economists. The bill suggests that individuals and small employment legislation or independent activities that have experienced at least 50% loss of income between April 1 and September 30, 2020, compared with the same period of 2019 due to a pandemic of Korean virus or the government's actions to control its spread may have the strength to meet the cost of operating during the period. The strength may reach up to 400 levels. K. for each rank value per month during the period. The bill is a part of the government's work to cope with the financial losses of individuals and legalized by a pandemic crown virus and is involved in supplementary measures, such as the part-time improvement, prolongation of the period of income-related unemployment improvements, closing power and federal support for the payment of part of pay costs on notice. Before I bring up the changes made by the Committee to make on this bill, I have the right and duty to call attention to the two lines of the committee. On one hand, the Commission agrees with the Contestant Commission that it is important that governments consider general policies on continued support measures and their progress. These include the need to consider the importance of competition, active competition, the restoration, and the procreation of the workplace at the end of these difficulties. However, it is a tip due to the partial improvement, in view of the fact that the epidemic will last longer than we would expect when this process was introduced here in the beginning and then extended during spring or in the summer. With law No. 23/2020 was authorized to pay a unemployment agent along with a decrease in employment rate without a permanent employer's salary for the reduced employment rate showing a decrease in the amount of money paid. The requirements for application between March 15 and June 1, 2020, were that the previous employment rate had decreased by 20 percent at least and a paid person maintained a minimum of 25% work ratio. By the end of May, the partial improvement process was extended by several material changes, and extensions included extensions. There was a 25 to 50% increase in minimum service ratio. Thus, the requirements for the utilisation of these measures are that the payant has been on a minimum of 70% labour share. In the autumn, governments have had to resort to comparable preventive measures as in the first century of the pandemic, and a number of operators have been made to close their companies or limit their activities in various ways. The Committee considers it necessary to create the foreseeing of the extension of the part-change process, and, in fact, in all efforts to support the job life, to extend at least Till the coming of us. It will also be considered to bring the measures back to the baseline with respect to minimum staff ratio. Mr. President. The main points of the committee's opinion and the adjustments made by the committee are in agreement. The bill we discuss here was submitted to the General Assembly on October 16 of this year. as well as the bill on continuation of shut-offs, which was discussed just before. These two primarys were referred to the Committee on October 20th. The committee has worked hard to speed up the discussion. In this regard, I would like to thank the members of the committee for special cooperation and how helpful all the members of this committee were to hold meetings, even at extraordinary times, holidays that work days. For that, thank you. This is an example of how members of Parliament can unite in needed action. The Commission suggests that there will be a change in the set of values of the bill in agreement with the Ministry of Economics so that it will not be limited to the operators who have three or fewer salary levels. This means that the maximum number of remunerations will be missed. In this way, all operators can apply for a loss of income concentration regardless of the headcount as they meet other criteria for granting, including of minimum income ratio. The proposal of the Committee is that there will be an extended period of income folders to cover October 31st, instead of September 30. Financial and economic secretary has announced that a second resort, another bill, will be introduced in the near future to meet the problem of management within the coming period of time, i.e. This month, and good for the coming year. The Commission suggests that the requirement for half-union is emptied so that the operator will only have to demonstrate a 40% income drop - and when I say only then a 40% revenue drop is quite massive - in order to have the right to the available resources. At the same time, high levels of income can be picked up by 400 of you. K. every monthly position for the operator in the season before the month between April and October and at the highest level of 2 billion. K. Five points per month. When we talk about status values, we have a full-time job regardless of whether one or more do that job was done by the operator's income in the range of 40 to 470 percent. Had there been more income loss, i.e. above 70%, the maximum inflation value at 500,000 k. every monthly value, but the same criteria otherwise. According to this, a driver who has experienced a 40-60% drop in income at the highest level may be entitled to 14 million. K. in income loss and management with 70% loss of income may be entitled to up to 17.5 billion. K. In addition, the Commission suggests that instead of the loss of income between April 1 and October 31, the employer's income will be the same month in 2019, his average income should be determined over a seven-month period in 2019. This aims to meet the operators with a fluctuating function after the season, as well as a simpler procedure. However, it is suggested that a different reference period be used if the operator shows that this will improve the image of the actual loss of income. This can, for example, happen. Based on the case of a single person who has been diagnosed with maternity or disease leave in a large part of the year 2019. The Commission suggests that if a operator is suspended under financial support to a smaller company between April 1 and October 31, he may be reduced from the operator's earnings during the period when the loss of income is assessed. Otherwise, because of the reason alone, the operator may fall outside of the sectoral sector because he or she has gained a lock. If the operator's closed concentration has been determined because of being closed by government recommendations, it would result in less than 40% of his income loss could result in a financial loss in terms of recovery. When assessing the cost of operating during the period, the operator, as suggested by the Committee, should withdraw support that may have received from the state's budget for paying part of the pay period, to the extent that he has received such financial support during the same period. The purpose of this is to prevent cases where the employer is given the same budget doubleed from the state fund. Mr. President. I've had some misunderstandings when it comes to this. This is merely to say that the human support given on the basis of accounts does not directly detract the potential amount of income, nor does it count for operating costs. That's what's being referred to and important. It would be unnatural to conclude that the cost of operating has not been applied to humans during this period. It is important to note that the Commission suggests changes in the bill so that operators who started work after April 1 of this year will be able to apply for a drop of income for the period between September 1 and October 31, end up with a cutoff of income at least 40%, relative to their income since they began their activities until September 1. The committee believes that there is a reasonable rationality and competitive view that these operators do not remain on the grounds alone that they have begun their business after a certain day. The committee feels that it is necessary to meet them as far as the recommendations are made. The Commission reviewed that, as the committee suggests, raise the amount of money, it is not possible to base solely on minor assistance rules so that the revenue levels are consistent with Iceland's commitments under the EEA Convention. Because of this, the Committee proposes a 10th paragraph. The bill changes in terms of the fact that the total budget of revenues for linked operators cannot buy more than 120 million, but it is the same as Article 2 of Article 4. The bill we covered earlier, i.e. in case 201, of continuation of lock-down. Finally, the committee suggests that at the bill, a new provision is made that the tax should be published publicly as to which legislators have determined a drop of income. In view of the changes proposed in the parameters of the bill, it is reasonable for the public to accept public information on the provision of public funds as a guide. The principle set out in paragraph 15. legal to support state funds because of payment of part of the pay per notice. The law takes a principle only to legalize, not to individuals. There will be no published information on the sum of money. The value of 100 000 euro or more, however, will always be printed. All of these changes call for greater financial expenditure beyond the anticipated amount. As assessed by the Department of Economics and Economic Affairs, it may be estimated that the overall impact of sector workers on government funds will be up to 23.3 billion. However, it is considered safe to claim that this is their highest limit of expenses. This is reflected in a memo sent by the Ministry and should be available on the council's website under this matter. And just to give a little idea of this, it is estimated that the concentrations for tourism companies can reach up to a total of 14 billion, to monotonate in tourism 300 million, cultural activity over 8 billion, to others of the 300 million. Of course, this is said in advance that it is thought to be such a limit of this cost. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed to a special Senate document. A Smári Mccarthy's signing this opinion in advance, which he intends to explain in a talk below. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " The people of the assembly, Óli Kárason, the Steindór of Meri, Jóldur, the son of Valmi, Braun the Valdimarsson of Níelsson, Bryndís, the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Smári Mccarthy, with a warning, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson and Willum Þórsson Þór.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason's story with the committee's opinion. Of course, there are many things to consider, but there is one thing that I may especially want to pray for. A senator to enter, i.e. whether or not there have been a glance at a point of view, I can't recall a review in which it was taken, in connection with a company in the position to have increased its magnitude, so to speak, between periods. Consider, for example, a business in the restaurant business that increases sales, but this could apply to a number of other sectors. I'm talking about a company with one sale site from the previous validation period, but I'm bringing four sales a year later and experiencing a huge drop in income, but it's still over-gravations when considering the social security number, although it's obvious that the loss of income for each station is possibly higher than the criteria here. Is there any basis for such parties under the rule of shape now being proposed?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u74	Mr. President. Now let me admit that I do not remember anyone or any of the many visitors who came to the meeting or any other member of the committee who had the imagination to do this exercise. Now may be the time. A senator has some specific example in mind, but I say, thankfully, there are a lot of companies that are on top of the worst business, and there are a lot of companies, especially in stores that have even made more money in the past few months. I mention, for example. I'll bet you building stores, I'll mention various types of websites, etc. What we're trying to do with this bill, with the dilation of this bill, is to try to give a hand, so that you have some limp, men fighting for their lives in business. We're trying to stop it from falling from being involved in Icelandic employment to become an active company at the end of this epidemic, and that's the way a nation can enjoy a real fight. A resistance will not happen unless we succeed in the assignment at least The Economic and Business Committee is completely in agreement, I dare say, to protect and protect the foundation of an Icelandic business life. Like what? A senator, especially as a result of his professional experience, becomes valuable there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. Kárason Although the tone in it may have been just another tone, I might have expected. I can't imagine that in any way I could understand my inquiry here in such a way that I would have doubts about the need for this operation. Rather, I was asking about a particular case that has clearly not been discussed in the committee, but there are real examples. Without going to it here in a pit, there are restaurants that have increased sales between these periods and are now in the position of total income loss, and then they get these Surgeon lock requirements into the acided position that had come up. They find themselves in a position to earn more money at this social security level, which is because there has been an increase in business between periods, sales markets, and so forth. I'd like to ask you what. A senator now, without any mention of the examples here in a pita, when there is evidence that these cases exist, whether he thinks there is any particular reason to look at such matters or if there is a channel for such a operator. This may not be a lot of examples, but such operators will land in just the same amount of income for each business unit, although the overall score within the social security number does not go down by the 50% that is divorced in this case. Counts 'em out. A senator who has reason to examine these peripheral events?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u76	Mr. President. Just a quick correction: If the Commission proposes a change, we're talking about 40%, not 50%. The short answer is: Yes. Of course, it must be possible to examine a position that arises as the figures increase in the existence of members, some company, may be supported by our joint funds. I realize that the bills we're talking about today, on the other hand, the lockbacks and the especially the income dropbacks, will not cover everyone. Some people will fall outside. There is not a very big difference between owning a company that experiences a 37% loss of income or owns a 40% loss of income. But if you have a 37% loss of income, you do not fulfill the obligation to get a income drop. It hurts. But somewhere, the lines have to be drawn. That is why we reach out, and that is why we make up the steps we are discussing. Would we have wanted to go further? Yes, but there are boundaries that we must set in these areas as painful as they may be, and so unjust as many may think. How important it is that as members of Congress, we recognize the situation in which we live, that we understand situations that are beyond our control, and we find reasons to look at. [[The president calls.]] It is especially my duty, which is responsible for the management of economic and business committees, to take to heart the measures that may seem reasonable.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u77	Mr. President. As shown in the case of the Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, why. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, who was single in the committee of this bill, had, of course, been called upon, and we have many examples of people who will be able to use the resources contained in the bill. I can name restaurants that have suffered a major loss of income, even though they have not been closed, simply because they have to comply with the mass limits and many measures of infection. It has been noted that dentists suffered a massive loss of income because dentists had to shut down and, of course, all the artists who suffered a loss of income because of the omission. This case, I think, is very good and the cooperation in that case. The Economic and Business Committee has been very good for all these Covid issues, and we're not thinking about whether we're in the board or in the government position but we're sitting over the case and taking into account the viewpoint. We don't always agree. However, thanks to this improved cooperation, thanks to the chairman of the Committee, who has created it, it is of importance to me that it comes to the impression that while we disagree in political politics, it is important that the issue of cooperation within the committees is in this way. I'm not going over the bill exactly. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason did it all right here. However, I would like to call attention to two issues stated in the Committee on the Contestation, with permission of the president: A company's support is part of emergency procedures but can influence competitiveness in the years to come. In view of this, the Commission considers it necessary to assess the experience of public support activities in the workplace and to make a public account of the outcome. That's what matters to me. Actions have been many, small and large, postponement of payment, loans, and funding and declines of expenses, etc. They need to weigh everything together, and we certainly don't want the pandemic and the consequences of it to result in the success of a good market share, and the smaller ones putting up with them because it matters very important to us when we grow out of this epidemic that it is active competition and smaller companies live and can also give them larger support and the situation will not become a small and rising competition as a result of it and the service will get worse. How important it is in our building work to keep our minds fixed on that matter! Then there's the other thing I'd like to mention about the committee's opinion that it is about the continuation of the lead and in a few comments given to the committee that it would be good to have some confidence, to extend the deliberation pathway, and that it would depend on a lower percentage than 50%. Many have spoken about 25%, and I have spoken to many professional workers, and many mention that it is better to maintain employment relations with four employees in 25% than two to 50% jobs, for example. This is what I think is very important to the government, and I couldn't get my partners into it. A financial and business committee to point to the UN bill which is now for the treatment of the welfare committee on exactly these matters and recommend that a body of members agree to that bill, at least, the importance of taking up the matter as soon as possible and I hope it comes as soon as possible from the government, because it's a good thing to do. However, in this case, the President, who is one of the Union's priorities, is not only referred to by the extension of the part-back page to June 1 next year and that the employment rate may go down to 25% but also speaks of the need to raise basic inefficiency and meet those who did not receive a six-month extension during the income-related period. Because it is this way, Mr President, that it is not enough to meet a company's income drop - it is important to do so, and we need to consider how the structure can start rapidly and well after the epidemic is over - we also have to face the loss of income and especially those who have suffered the greatest blow, i.e. those who have lost their jobs. Therefore, in the United States, we feel that we need to watch this in context and raise basic employment benefits and prolong the longevity period for unemployment. Then we have a special problem as ministers and directors of the Supreme Court. Government has said they're going to solve it, but I'm not a sign that it's going to happen. In August 12,000 people on basic non-employment and were on basic non-employment when the prolongation of the income - related period from three months to six months applies only to those on the income - related period in September when the bill went into effect. There are 12,000 people who had only received a three - month - long income - time period and are assured to be equal in this regard. You can't say that some get just three months, while others get six, and there is no evidence that those in the three - month period have been much longer unemployed and have more problems than others who have been less unemployed. To extend the income-related period for all costs just less than 6 billion dollars. If they all got the maximum, they'd be 456,000 bucks. During the income - related period, of course, it is not that nearly 6 billion would undergo this operation to a maximum level, and it is necessary. It is not acceptable if governments are not going to handle this matter. President. What I feel is the government's lack in the situation we are in right now is a plan. There's no plan. All the action we have taken through the council is a response to a situation, and it is understandable that at the beginning there was no plan, that we needed to react quickly, and the most visible problems were tackled. But now we need a plan, we have to assume that the epidemic can delay, and how will we react? We also need a plan for the structure. How will we build up? It's missing, and we have to look at things as a whole, we have to create jobs, we have to maintain our well - being, and we have to work against human climate problems. We in the United States have made plans on what we have chosen to call the responsible way. There's an all-outer out of a pandemic, and I'd like to recommend it to the highest level. A government to turn over that book and adopt ideas that would certainly be a source for all categories. Although we have not talked about the climate as much as we are dealing with a pandemic, our climate has not disappeared. We have to build up for the green future. The structure must be green. The job structure has to be green. These are the steps we need to plan. I don't agree with that. In this discourse, members of the council have said that now is not the time to talk about green solutions. Right now is the time to talk about green solutions because we need to grow out of this valley, and we need to do so in order to have the future. Of course, most important is to have a variety of employment and employment, but it must not be just any type of work. We need to take into account that we are here dealing with the largest common human project that is man - made climate change. To say, Mr. President, I would like to express my pleasure again with this bill, but I call for a government plan, both soon and long.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u78	Mr. President. I'd like to talk about this bill I approve of, but I'm signing the commission. I just want to talk about the big context and the warning I'm going to do with the bill and maybe a few things in the end. Let us see that both this and the preceding issue are dealing with a devastating situation in Iceland's economy, and they are linked to global disasters. This is a small attempt to keep the wheels working during this time. This is incredibly important because provided we get out of this situation, we will need the companies of the country to offer products and services that people depend on. If companies, many of whom are very small and, in many cases, are not able to endure this period, it will be much more difficult to get things started again. Of course, we are not just talking about the business that people watch as nationally important. We're also talking about things that are important to the existence of society. Society will not simply feed and shelter people. There's more to it than that. They need culture and art, every type of service they need. This bill goes slightly in the right direction to protect those who have various reasons for not being able to offer their goods and services during this pandemic. The importance of the bill is totally undisputed within the Economic and Business Committee, and I support it, but still I'm warning the matter. It may not be about the actions, although I make comments to the approach the government has chosen to take in an economic response to this situation. My reviews and notices that this is another case in which steps are being set. The bill was based on the fact that this company, legislature, individuals, and small employment lawyers, who have had 50% loss of income, can get support. Happily, changing this to 40% was acceptable on the Committee because it is quite natural for those who have tolerated less money than 50%, too, to need assistance. Still, there's a 40% step. That's what's being said is that everyone with a 10% drop can't be included, 20%, 30%, 39.9% are also out of play. You ask yourself, " Could it not be that some important company or even an enterprise that may not necessarily be important in a national sense but that is important for those who work there, or monotonous who offer important products and services for themselves, as well as for the society who have suffered a 39% drop in income, does not have as much right as a company that has the right to the 40% limit? ' Similarly, in this bill, a change is made, which I think is good. If there is over a 70% drop in income, the amount given per value will increase. That's fine, but why would it be different with those with a 69.9% drop of income and those with a 70% income drop? Why can't we create linear formulas so that the scope of support grows in proportion to the number of revenues that have occurred? It's not a complicated calculation, it's not a math thing to invent. This is just a decision that would have to be made, a decision that instead of creating endless stages and using them to separate people from their support, we would do it in a natural and legitimate way. This isn't the first time I've ever seen one of these on initials. It's a little bit of a country, I think, with lawyers and I don't want to be ashamed of them. But I think it's a certain legal approach that needs to be terminated. It is everywhere, whether we talk about the tax system or any other country in Icelandic legislation, forever and ever, of the complicating factors. This mess isn't a bit of a matter because it happened completely while we were going over this bill, I can at least say for myself that I was a long time understanding who would precisely fit this and who wouldn't. In addition, there are several steps that did not help, as well as a number of complex rules, that make it difficult to find out exactly who these things are. That's not good. The fact that we have two resources, this and the bill that was to be paid earlier, that take on one continuous problem in two different ways, and that you can't quickly see where one plan ends and another starts, and whether or not there are others falling apart, is a problem. This is a problem that happens because we're always making too complicated rules, we're creating these stages, etc. I still think it's a serious problem with the bill I support because it's better than not doing anything and even doing nothing better than not doing anything. As far as this bill helps, I'm sure I'll support it. But I just want to use this opportunity to propose to the government and to all of the lawyers in the country and other people who think that the solution to the country's problems is to stop and start doing things in some linear way. So, of course, there are a few more things. Just to have mentioned it a little, especially since it happened. paritaprevir It's been mentioned by Oddný G. Harðardóttir and went into it in her excellent speech, and then we're getting closer to the national economy problems based on a very corporate approach. In some way, we try to make things work as if nothing has happened by giving money into a business rather than trying to change the rules of the game. And, of course, it's a decision that was made early in this pandemic, and it worked very well then, and it was a reflex, but it was quite a shock. Harðardóttir If we've been in this situation for almost that year, that there's some plan, an economic plan, about how we're getting out of this situation, not only at this particular moment, but also from the very possible possibility that the pandemic could continue for one, two, three, four, even five more years. We don't know. There are ten different vaccines up to the third stage of a study, which means that if things go well, these vaccines will be seen and released soon, which is fantastic, but even in the best case, if all these ten vaccines were accepted today, we are still talking about even six months until we have some physical protection. We need to start changing our thinking in line with the fact that this is not a cure. Rather, it is a long run in which the foundations of our economic system are at stake. And if we don't start thinking about long - term solutions, we're likely to be here for the next summer, perhaps in the fifth or sixth rounds of such solutions without any real cure to the underlying problems in our eyes. That's what worries me. I hope, of course, that this evil case, i.e. that this rather boring scene that I'm drawing up, doesn't work out, and we can solve this faster, but it would be better, it would be desirable for the Iceland government to have at some point in the last eight months, or then gave time to create a realistic and credible solution for that film. She may be bad, and it's uncomfortable to think of her, but she's not unlikely. We need to be a little realistic about this. I hope in the next round there will be a more built-in long-term thought, even a review of some of the conditions we give ourselves to how the economy works. But that's why I'm stopped.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u79	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 25/2020, which measures the Regulation of the Commission Regulation (EU) 2018/1042 from 23 July 2018 on the variation to Regulation No 37/2010. 965/2012 As for technical requirements and management treatments related to support programmes, psychological assessment of flight crews, as well as systematicly organized and random screening for psychiatric purposes to ensure the health of pilots and security and services, and the implementation of a landscape analysis system for newly manufactured aircraft, the motor detrusor with 5,700 kg documented maximum flight mass or less, and agreed to include six to nine passengers. The protocol that has been entered into the EEA Convention by Decision 25/2020 is intended to prevent the risks that may result from being on boarded by mental - health persons or if they are unable to perform their tasks due to injury, fatigue, medicine, illness, or other similar causes. Specifies Regulation including the need for pilots to establish a preemptive and environmental policy to prevent mental abuse and to have legalized national authorities (System Labs in this country) to ensure screening for psychiatric substances in airports, including alcohol, on air soils. The Regulation also discusses the implementation of psychological assessment of pilots before they are authorized to start work and implement a support programme for pilots to support and help them to identify and react to any kind of problem that could affect their ability to perform their tasks safely. Then the regulations also apply to the landscape analysis systems for aircraft with a maximum flight mass of over 5,700 kg. The content of this Regulation depends largely on the reaction to the Germanwings plane crash that took place in 2015. I suggest, more reverend, that this discussion will be concluded with this proposal. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u80	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 16/2020, which measures the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council 2019/630 from 17 April 2019 for a change in Regulation No. 575/2013, with regard to minimum insurance protection from loss due to the CHAP, the contract will be entered. The protocol entered into the EEA Convention by Decision No. 16/2020 is aimed at changing Regulation No. 575/2013 on the precautionary requirements of credit agencies and the financial stock markets due to the preconceived risk commitments. In the absence of reserve reserves to meet the cost of the loans, credit costs will be cut off on credit. The credit rate is gross if a loan fails to pay 90 days or it can be attributed to others because it will not pay. The recovery will depend on whether or not a loan is guaranteed and on how long it has been misunderstood. The withdrawal will only apply to loans made after the type takes effect, so there is no need to recalculate your own capital because of previous loans made. The induction of the product can increase the interest of loans to reduce loans, rather than make them believe that they will not have to admit their traditional losses, but it is not expected that there will be an overall impact on their own financial requirements. The induction is not expected to have a significant impact on government or government financial matters. I propose, a respectable president, that the end of this discussion will be alluded to this proposal. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u81	A respectable president. This synonym is looking for Generalis warrants to confirm for Iceland on behalf of the decision made by a joint EEA committee (EEC) No. 60/20, which measures the following types to be typed into the contract. These include: a. Council Regulation and Council No. 1286/2014 of key information documents for packed and insurance-related investment products for general investors, b. Council and Council Regulation 2016/2340 on variation of Regulation No. 1286/2014 as regards its day of validation, c. The Commission Regulation 2016/1904 is responsible for the addition of Council Regulation and Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1286/2014 with respect to goods, d. provide Commission Regulation 2017/653 on addition to Council Regulation and Council Regulation No. 1286/2014 by measuring the technical monitoring standards for the presentation, input, review and review of key information documents and the requirements for meeting the requirements for providing such documents, in accordance with Commission Regulation 2019/1866 on the alteration of Commission Regulation 2017/653 to adapt the conversion programme of the manufacturers of the packed and insurance-based investment products for the general investors. By Regulation No. 1286/2014 is put on the obligation of those who provide advice on or sell packed and insurance-related investment products to make public investors a key information document. The objective is to make it easier for public investors to compare key information from different products and their specific characteristics, including risks and costs. A key information document shall highlight the main messages about the particular investment product, such as its name and costs associated with an investment in the product and information on how and on what general investors may complain about the product or the manufacturer. The manufacturer of the product should then present the key information sheet for the general investor before making a business decision. By the Regulation, the European Life Insurance and Penitentiary Agency (EIOP) is authorized to ban or restrict under certain circumstances of marketing, distribution and sale of certain investment products or certain insurance activities. In the case of Iceland, the EFTA monitoring agency has this authority, in line with the solution set in relation to the recording of the EIOP stocks in the EEA Convention. Regulation 2016/2340 is a modification directive under the aforementioned Regulation 1286/2014 which delayed the implementation of the Regulation within the EU to 1 January 2018. In accordance with Regulation 1286/2014, Commission Regulation 2017/653 shall be agreed with the regulations of the Regulation. 1286/2014, the implementation of Commission Regulation 2019/1866 includes the adjustment of Commission Regulation 2017/653 on the subject of technical standards in accordance with Regulation 1286/2014. I propose, a respectable president, that the end of this discussion will be alluded to this proposal. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u82	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 63/2020, which recommends that the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council 2018/843, for the change in Directive 2015/849 of the measures used for financial theft or for the funding of terrorism, and for the change in Directive 2009/138/EC and 2013/36/EU, be included in the contract. The directive entered into the EEA Convention by Decision No. 63/2020 is often referred to as the fifth EU money-student directive. This will make changes to the EU Directive 2015/849, the fourth Sports Directive. Types include aimed at dealing with the changes in terrorist methods in financing their actions. It is also designed to improve tax fraud action, to respond to recent technological changes in the financial system, and to increase transparency. The goal is to prevent the use of the financial system for financial evasion or terrorist funding. The power of the institutions that monitor money is enhanced and their cooperation is easier. The institutions will thus be able to access more information than before, in addition to accessing central data databases and files. Further restrictions are added to the anonymous use of prospectively supplied cards and must only be used in pre-specified countries from the EEA Member States in accordance with EU regulations. There is an increased monitoring of electricity and places where a battery can be switched to conventional funds, where it has been shown to avoid regular checkups at such times. According to 32. a Member States are obliged to install a central or central registry where the government can directly and directly collect information on the owners of bank accounts, deposit accounts, and storage rooms. Governments and customers from countries that are listed in the list of countries where the weaknesses are under the control of money theft and terrorist control. Among other things, a list of countries where such risks are thought to be. It gives the public full access to specific points in a list of those who are considered to be real partners and funds. I propose, a respectable president, that the end of this discussion will be alluded to this proposal. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u83	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to confirm for Iceland to the decision made by the European Commission No. 83/2020, which measures the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2019/517 of March 19, 2018, to implement the headway. The nature and role of the Agency, and the variation and breakdown of Regulation No. 733/2002 as well as breakdown of Commission Regulation No. 874/2004, will be included in the contract. The protocol entered into the contract with the decision No. 83/2020 includes changes in European Parliament Regulation and Council Regulation No. 733/2002 for use. ................................................................................................................................ 874/2004 from 28 April 2004 on official policies to be used. □ Why is it important to have a clean conscience? The proposal is to make the rules about the rolldown. You may be more flexible and better off in use. The point of the suggestion is to eliminate unnecessary rules about the site. Since the rules are present, the rules do not allow them to become tolerated. This is done because competition is expected to increase the reporting and distribution of domains. Hypocritical speech and management should be reduced in staging the site and compromising diffusion terms. The suggestion does not involve denaturation of the head's function. From today's or from what is now under added burden. Further, the goal is to relax demand and make the rules more flexible and better in use. I suggest, a respectable president, that the end of this discussion will be referred to the motion. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-04-15.u84	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 81/2020 of the Convention Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council 2013/50/EU from 22 October 2013 on the review of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council 2004/109/EC on the coordination of signals required for information on the publishers of the stocks registered in a structured market, the European Parliament Directive and the Council Directive 2003/71/EC on the modalations and registration to be published at the general market or for the registration and of the Commission Directive 2007/14/EC on accurate rules for implementing specific Directive 2004/19/2009/EC. With the Directive entered into the EEA Convention by Decision No. 81/2020 changes are made in the 2004/109/EC Directive on the coordination demand for transparency information on the publishers of the stocks registered in a structured market, i.e. The Transparancy directive. The main changes are that the definition of the term "eutralization" is changed in a way that allows individuals to fall under, delay of a publisher's public account for the first six months of the year is extended from two months to three and the publishers of stocks are required to make annual accounts and annual accounts available for ten years instead of five years before. Then there are the opportunities for publishers of stocks to choose an increasing home Member State. I propose, a respectable president, that the end of this discussion will be alluded to this proposal. Foreign Affairs.
