ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u1	There have been letters where the request is made every year in order to provide written answers to queries: From the prime minister to the covering query. 316, about the agent and the contact manager, from Sæmundsson; from the Environment and Resource Minister for the Development. Three hundred and twenty-five, with the agent and the contact manager, from Sæmundsson's Gerstein.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u2	The president considers an agreement that, if necessary, a meeting can last longer today than the Senate dictates.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u3	President. I just want to talk about a little political awareness. At the beginning of the last year, we were visited by British senator Chris Ruane, who brought us a message today full of political awareness. He traced the beginning of the initiative in Britain and how fast and effective it would have been. It began there in 2013, and right away it became a success of political and interpolitical interest. The initiative set out a special selection within Congress education for members and Ministers, which included taking a few weeks of study to learn the basics of today's consciousness. The theory behind it is that those who work for the council and make dramatic and dramatic decisions on their behalf are better equipped to use the benefits and possibilities of training, such as putting themselves in the place of others, showing themselves and others better, and especially dealing with challenging situations under stress and stress. The project has given us an excellent experience and an improved political environment where it has been used. After Chris'visit here, I was invited to visit the British Parliament for a special seminar on political, health, military, and emergency work. It was an exciting experience to hear the experiences of individuals, and it was clear that an increasing sense of consciousness had done wonderful things for many of the important aspects of their work. One of the most memorable was the story of Timur Boughton, a former British helicopter pilot who had lost 37 friends in war. He described how he had gotten into a crisis of his own mind and in an extremely serious phase of traumatic stress. He told us how familiarity with today's consciousness had changed his spiritual condition and how he had become a completely different person. After my visit to Westminster, I had a few present - day conscious events at the U.S. Generalship with a good woman, Anna Dóra Frostadóttir's daughter. I invited all the senators, stewards, and staff of Generals, and it was a real joy to see the number of people there. [[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, but I can't take up the crowd as to events at the Council, and I'd like to re-establish the subject here at the General Assembly, and who knows when the next time will be able to meet and work on the ground. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u4	A respectable president. We in the United States have severely criticized the budget and the focus of the government that we consider to save some companies rather than homes, to reduce taxes on property people, and to discriminate persons on unemployment insurance, depending on whether they lost their job sooner or later. Some of the government's issues we support, even more than the government itself. You can, for example, do so. Name your bill to the highest. A minister of education to support the media, which is now another year evaporating here at the council. The importance of the media in our society will never be overemphasized. We're talking about all kinds of media, little, big, small, large, large, multi-cultural, Internet services, media, media, local media, and national media. It is all very important to thrive in an open but delicate democracies community, whether in private, private business, or we are talking about the State Radio. As a matter of fact, we in the United States have a new proposal for the budgeting bill about 160 million. K. a donation to make up for the radio bill. These media of ours are in a very equal rivalry with an international giant who does not pay taxes or other fees in this country and our little nation countries like us don't have the resources to stand up to those giants. That's why I've sent an inquiry to the highest level. Secretary of finance on whether and how the European Commission has followed the efforts of the European Union to get these companies to pay the normal price of their work and if Icelanders are not going to use that type of work. Mr. President. I can't wait to finally get the press bill, and I think it's safe to say it's the highest. A diplomat of the government working with us in the United States, we would not be standing in the way of that matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u5	A respectable president. It has been a joy to experience and share in the demonstrations of the Senate's strength in these difficult times of this year. We've worked on one thing to land during difficult times in big and important matters. Often decisions have had to be made quickly, and the council has worked hard together, handled them well, and handled them quickly. There's been a tremendous increase in funds in a number of resources, five allowances, something that hasn't been seen before, and in the days to come, tomorrow we're going to start around 2. ... aboutthelaws. There lies ahead of the almost rewritten budget bill because the improvement is being made so well between the 1st and the 2nd. Nor is this by itself, for we are putting a wealth of government into an enormous pitch that the future generations will have to process so much. I started by saying that I've been delighted to see us members of the Parliament and also to say that this shows us how democratic conversation has developed and how important it is. That's why I'm glad that we signed a council contract, that he's made it so early without any fuss or anything like that. People worked hard to gather together in the hope that we could complete the council at a reasonable time. Of course, the majority would have wanted to get all their affairs into order to treat the council, but we have to meet, and we now did and did well. I'm just going to say that I'm happy with this cooperation between our council groups, because I think there's some kind of pattern on how it's done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u6	Mr. President. I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity to discuss nursing and recent reports of the health care Department's appeal from autumn to the head of a nursing facility for more medical care. Today's morning paper calls attention to hard criticism by the leaders of the individual health institutions of a minister and the government for allowing what might be called a closed - minded view of business to prevent all resources from being new in the Coron viral epidemic. The purpose is interviews in a recent issue of the Medical Journal and the Morning newspaper, where Anna Birna Jensdóttir, director of the Suntuns, and Teitur Guðmundsson, a doctor and director of Health Care, are surprised to find that the nursing arrangements they have offered are not respected by the government. At the same time as over 100 patients are stuck in a hospital, independent, health - care institutions with a ready bed of medical equipment are destroyed on the sideline. Mr. President. Here we are talking about the Ministry's call for help, as greater ideas on solutions in these topics are simply not answered on the part of the Ministry. What's going on at the Ministry of Health? Is the opposition within the door to the private enterprise so serious that it is not to be solved that much of a profound problem that has long been maintained in these areas? We've seen the last time that we've seen all the massive rains being made to prevent the personal enterprise. In this way we have seen how seemingly progressive non - Witness organizations have been in various forms of health care. And then we've seen paradoxs for a waiting list of measures to be performed on this country at a much lower cost. However, health officials feel that it is better to provide private care for foreign workers, even though it is far more expensive than taking these actions in private rooms here. This situation involves not only the responsibility of left green persons, but also their cooperation in the government, a state that hides. it includes ignoring private institutions in the way described in the medical journal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u7	Mr. President. At the same time that some 100 people are stuck in a local hospital, independent health institutions stand on the sideline ready to help, but the government says no. At the same time as waiting for the various activities that restrict people's quality of life and their job performance, individual operating clinics on the sideline are prepared to assist, but the government says no thanks. In fact, governments do not exactly say no because there was something so obvious. They say: The Allied has the ball. And what does the Council do with the ball? Various diplomats, especially those on contending with freedom of choice, say: There is no desire at the Council for the matter. Last time I heard those words come out of my mouth. This morning, the superintendent in the Bit of the Wave. At the General Assembly, you do not want to accept these extended helpers to assist people in distress, say these members of the council. And that makes them somehow free, these alleged advocates of freedom, as if political responsibility is not really in the hands of governments. Mr. President. I challenge these senators, who complain of the proposed will of the council, who will take every advice to take advantage of these matters to come in here to the council for a release. Then we can ask ourselves: " Who really is in the way of making personal, competent, well - educated, well - trained, well - meaning, well - meaning people to care for people in need of health care in this country? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u8	A respectable president. I'm going to turn Hallorm School into publicity. First, I want to congratulate the school on a 90-year anniversary. Then I'd like to congratulate Hallorm School on making sure that the school's course of sustainable development and creation has gone through all the confirm and recognition procedures of new courses and has been advertised in Government News. This is a major stage in the history of school and education in the East but also a turning point in the variety of education in Iceland. Attendance at school is truly new. Sustainableness has been the red thread in the history of the school since 1930, and within the school wall there is a great knowledge of the full use of raw materials and resource use. The last time I discussed the subject of the school here in the spring of 2017, the work was certainly not so bright. During the 90 years of his school history, he has regularly had to be updated and adjusted to adjust his study to the rhythm of social change, and he has always been successful despite a temporary crisis. With persistence and persistence, school managers and sponsors have again been able to turn back on their defenses. Congratulations. The study has always been useful as preparing for a variety of studies in creative articles, cooking, and living, as well as building a general life - style. A study of sustainable development and creation at a fourth stage is an important international addition at a time in which all of us need to adopt a more sustainable lifestyle. The school is important on national levels and attracts people from many parts of the world to be a special students. School has always attracted talented people to living in an East country, and it is even more important that people who have stayed there have a good story to say when they go to school.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u9	V.E.G. President. Now I think the track's text is recommended for what cannot be fixed: There must be no Christmas party. You can't drink Christmas Day together, You can't go out and see good friends. and you may need a sample. They're so strange to these hobos. There's always rules against anything. Even if you don't do anything. There's always rules against anything. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] V.E.G. President. Tomorrow the value of the change in resources and the arrangements that some hoped for will not be realized. So we need to prepare for another Christmas. There are two factors: resolve in anger or choose to make the best of the situation. We live in a world where an alcohol can in your pocket is an approved standard device and a mask is part of a basic device. At one time, people who were few in the world wanted to be known were counted as such. But now there is a different age. One day, all of us will think back to Christmas in 2020 and tell future generations about these extraordinary Christmass and how we did our best. No doubt Christmas celebrations held through telecommunications, yes, or gambling nights will be a laughing matter, or it can be something else altogether. We're encouraged to choose Christmas friends. When families do not live in the same part of the country, it may be wise to make an Christmas ball with friends or neighbors. In this way, we may become acquainted with new Christmas traditions worth recording. However, this will be most difficult for those in sensitive groups. There are new ways to make family members happy that need to remain healthy. Let's have an electronic time together. These are different, but in order for us to make this work, we must celebrate a different Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u10	Mr. President. Sedation is a serious problem, and air quality, especially in cities, is getting significantly worse when particulate matter is high. According to Brians Barr's recent history of geological Barrs at the University of Iceland, nail use in the capital area has the most important impact on the quantity of gliders in this area. The site of the Roadmaker shows that the use of nail pads in the capital area is increasing if something is wrong. Now the maximum proportion is 46% but was to form 23% in 2011. It is important, however, to realize that circumstances are not all the same as those of today's urban, rural, and less urban areas. It is likely that the long road platforms of low traffic are less acceptable than high - traffic roads and high - weight roads. There, nails can likely do some good. Air quality and traffic safety are both important in terms of human health. According to the report, nail pads are the main exposé of particulate pollution in the capital area. Traffic safety also needs to be checked to determine how much of the use of nails is in improving safety of road users as well as the safety of other routes. These include hiccups, rough tires, full - wound pedestrian, and lower speeds of traffic. There are also the importance of public transport, but with increased use, cars decrease in the streets, traffic safety increases, and pollution decreases. I've asked you a question to the highest level. • looking forward to seeing the results of those coming. With an open mind, we need to consider these two important factors together, i.e. Air quality and traffic security, and as soon as we improve air quality in the capital area, we also look for ways to secure traffic safety.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u11	A respectable president. I understand that for a financial committee there's a memo from the highest level. Health Ministers to put about 100 million in 2021 in the funding of new legislation on increasing access to psychological services in accordance with the laws adopted here by the unanimous. I simply ask, a respectable president, what kind of showliness is this? What game is being set up? It is clear that the government is not now going to place the necessary funds in the case. This is ambitious, describing a small future and in no way harmonizes with the very rich and clear will of the council. At the same time, we hear the crippling call from the community for increasing emphasis on people's mental and emotional well - being. In Icelandic society, 30,092 individuals signed the challenge of Mental Health. Students of students have called attention to an enormously serious position among our young people. In addition, we know that the pandemic has had very negative results on people's well - being, loneliness, and emotional well - being. It must be part of a nation's resistance to do better here and take bigger steps. I fear that this weak step is a painful patch on a large, bleeding wound, since the need for this service is screaming in our community. This is a shocking priorities for the government. At the same time that it puts billions on all sorts of pet projects in this time period, it does not place a penny in this important matter of concern about people and their well - being. The restoration will indicate that 1.3 billion will be taken into account in handling the budget. The pantheonium, the General Assembly, still has the opportunity to do better and provide financial support. I'd like to challenge the senators to lower their ranks and to regroup and to dock the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u12	A respectable president. Today is a mental - health assembly, and here I am going to talk about loneliness. Loneliness is defined as the unpleasant feeling of experiencing a lack of social need. Studies have shown that older people often feel lonely. Loneliness has been increased in all age groups, but studies show that there is increasing loneliness in young people 16◯24 years of age. The cost of society and individuals is high because of loneliness. The recent research report and analysis of young people reveal that among students 8, 9 and 10 classes since October, 39% have experienced a lot of loneliness in the current year. While the health effects of loneliness are abundant, increasing numbers of studies suggest that loneliness increases the likelihood of serious illness. Loneliness speeds up aging. Cardiovascular conditions are linked, but also to certain types of mental illness, suicide and less intellectual capacity. Loneliness also increases dementia and the risk of alzheimer. If so, those who are lonely are more likely to be more angry, to cope with negative feelings and anxiety, and even in the worst cases, to be blundered in the community. These individuals are also more likely to support conservative and extreme social views. Loneliness experience society as a threat and thus become more stressful and harder to sleep with. Overall, individuals who are lonely may experience society as dangerous and threatening in their isolation. Technology and social use make people feel that they are alone and that their lives are not as good as others. Social comparisons and competition have increased, which restrains people from showing fellow feeling. We're together, but one in one corner.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u13	Mr. President. Despite good results in Iceland in disease prevention, the remaining 28 Icelanders have died and 5,516 Icelanders have received Covid-19 and still have some, although not most people, have yet to join them. Vaccinations will start in the following year, but we will continue to deal with the consequences of the epidemic that are observed in individuals who are dealing with the long-term effects of Covid-19. This is something that is predictable, Mr. President, and this is something we need to prepare for our health care system. British Health Services recently announced that there were 10 million pounds [10 million kg] to set up 40 receptions in Britain for patients experiencing the long-term effects of Covid-19. There, different health experts will work there to support these individuals, identify and treat these long-term symptoms. Today it is clear that more than hundreds of Icelanders who have received Covid-19 may have to suffer from the consequences of their disease for a long time. Consequences, Mr. President, also declare itself. damage to organs, fatigue, brain fog and pain. Thus, many of these individuals could enjoy poor quality of life and, in some cases, may end up in disability, but the consequences seem very individual and important to monitor carefully each person. This is a predictable situation, Mr. President, and although we are still in the middle of the storm, we need to start preparing for the rest. We need to keep a tight grip on the individuals who have received Covid-19 and make clear processes for those who are dealing with the long-term consequences of the disease. This is something that has to be done now, Mr. President, and I challenge the government to create some resources for the many Icelanders who are dealing with the long-term consequences of Covid-19 as well as to ensure the resources required. We must not fail.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u14	A respectable president. Tomorrow we'll talk to the government's budget bill. It is intended to respond and face completely unprecedented conditions in our economy. We all know what that situation is. Sadly, 25,000 people are out of work or on part - improvement, and there is evidence that these numbers are going to go up. Business and management are dealing with situations that are without precedent. All the travel services have been paralyzed, hotels, hotels and restaurants all over the country. The same is true of those who engage in culture and art in hard times. Now it is necessary to use the government to prevent the economic crisis from deepening and increasing. There is a big step to take in this situation. The State can do that and has the authority to do so. In fact, it will prove to be more expensive to all of us if we do not use the Kingdom box now but stand by. In my mind, it is clear that the state's demand is to put on more intensive economic action, for that is, yes, the government that has put on severe disease prevention measures. They are essential, but they need intense economic action. Otherwise, we simply see what we're seeing today, that people give up. We do not all agree here in this hall of how much weight the State should enter. However, all of us should agree that now it is not the time for the State to raise the cost of a business as a calming science. But this government has done this with an increase in alcohol consumption this week and that the right category in this situation raises the cost of an enterprise is incomprehensible. Government needs to be read on the situation and cannot afford to add on the budget side of an enterprise now. It's not tax politics that the right category should be able to get away with or get away with.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u15	Mr. President. About two weeks ago, the man here had a word exchange at the top. Secretary of finance of the problems of those who have borrowed from the apartment loans, loans that pay expenses. Many things have happened since that exchange took place. The fall is a federal judgment that says this payment is illegal and has the IL Fund appealed to the National Court. These are 12,000 loans, active, and inactive. 8,500 people have paid off their loans and are paying 167,17% at payment, i.e. of 20 million. K. Remuneration is about 3.2-3.5 million, which is completely intolerable. Now 3,300 loans are still available, and we can imagine how those who have not been able to pay off the loans will be able to sell their apartments with such loans. I don't think there's much demand for it. It is imperative, Mr. President, that there be prompt treatment for the land's rights, because not only is this impatient wait for the 12,000 or the 3,300 still borrowing, and the 8,500 that have paid up, but it is also a natural factor for the state's funds, because when and if this judgment is confirmed, it will cost a total of over 8 billion dollars. yesterday, the judgment of the business magazine. Mr. President. That's what I'm pointing to at the highest. Secretary of finance that he will bring about the immediate removal of this matter to the National Court as soon as possible in order to obtain the immediate result.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u16	A respectable president. Now, the Covid-19 virus epidemic has fought the community for nearly a year, with its associated endpoints and other burdensome biohazard measures. The nation's mental and mental well - being as a result of the epidemic has deteriorated and is testing the people's patience. Now all of us need to be exemplary in all the sterilization procedures, holding this out, as vaccination is on the opposite side of the corner. Not everyone can go out for health benefits and much less a flying shark, as has recently been. Since physical activity and swimming are vital for many, it is incomprehensible that the most vulnerable groups in need of this exercise have not received special treatment. This group would have to have a choice of exercise and swimming if they are willing to do so, for many are waiting for nothing more than pain pills and anti - inflammatory drugs. So in this context, it is incomprehensible that not all who came to the country outside of a double screening session and between five and six days of condensation are not required. That we are still allowing tourists to choose voluntary 14 - day habits is absurd and have shown that they are not going to make it. If we had been strict about this, we'd be in very good cases and in places similar to Taiwan and New Zealand, exemplary in their defenses. If we had done this right away, schools and stores, gymnasiums, pools, and society in general would be in good shape. Sadly, many mistakes have been made in our life, and because of this, we have to learn, much worse. We've learned how to adapt to this unprecedented situation, e.g. With telecommunications from home, we get away from our cars for a long time and improve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u17	A respectable president. It was earlier mentioned in this discussion that during these unprecedented times, the council had shown great strength in the treatment of all those diseases, how the council had dealt with them. It can, in itself, be a part of it. In this regard, Congress agreements must be mentioned. I have to say for a reason that I was surprised at what the rest of them said, that there were no strict treatments and that all of them were involved. So I was surprised to learn that there was no more discussion in these contracts that have been going on here. However, as far as it is clear, tomorrow the implementation of a new directive on the control measures required for January 12 is now taking place with the longest scope of this Regulation. It has given rise to a lot of attention and power, to say the least, the Regulation that comes into force tomorrow, and called attention to inconsistencies. I think I can quite claim here that more than I have pointed to the inconsistencies and inexplicability of decisions made by this Regulation. This week the value of the so - called color code of the public defences was also taken, a new phenomenon that determines the situation in the country's protection. It is surprising that the situation, as described by the Regulation and the major and severe measures required to make a target to January 12 is very serious in relation to this code of colours, that there is a very serious situation here. Iceland's all red. There has been no acceptable explanation, which I think the General should call for from the welfare authorities and health ministers as soon as the weekend and Christmas begins.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u18	Mr. President. Unemployment is the acquired rights of paymen. The design is based on baseline North American equalism and was established here by the labor movement and political groups who have fought for public rights. Of course, we in the United States support the proposals of the administration parties, but we want to take greater steps because we know that this will not only benefit jobseekers and their families but all of them. I would like to encourage the entire body of Congress to agree with our proposals here today because it is important to support the tens of thousands of people now in pain.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u19	A respectable president. I support this bill, but I was on the committee opinion because I would have wanted it to go on longer, until the next fall, and would have liked to have more compensation. As it's stated, I will support it, but it would have been far more desirable to get a larger amount and a lot more time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u20	Mr. President. I'd like to be glad that a majority of the welfare committees put in here a change and a prolongation of the part-change process. However, in view of the fact that the welfare committee is on the subject of athletes and possibly even others, I wish that the matter would be restored to the welfare committee so that it would be an opportunity for them to see if and by what means the partial reform system could be more supportive of government planning when it comes to a free organization. That's my firm wish, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u21	Mr. President. For more than six months or ever since this crisis, the government has fought back when it has been spoken of and has been required to improve basic employment benefits and other benefits to the people who are losing their jobs. Of course, I'm happy for every step, and I'm happy for this step, even though we in the United States would have liked to see much bigger and more powerful steps. Sometimes I feel that the government does not understand the manifestation of this crisis, which is that many of us do not feel the economic impact of the crisis while tens of thousands of people are most damaged. I hope that today's vote is indeed a step toward further action because otherwise we will create a great nation out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u22	Mr. President. We now vote to extend the rights period to unemployment. Now, about every month, hundreds of people turn to rural communities and have to ask for social support that is much lower, if obtained because of the strictness of the local community's terms, than unemployment improvements. This has been called after from rural communities where unemployment was highest prior to the crisis, e.g. has called for this to be true of the local government of Smokejanes, and Reykjavíkurburg has also discussed this. It's a justice matter, and it's a humanitarian situation in a professional crisis. But it seems on the board that the left greens, forwards and independents want to lead these people to the countryside. [[The president calls.]] If they are ashamed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u23	A strong word to say, there's a president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u24	What is this nonsense? They're here to explain their votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u25	The president does not reason with members of Congress on this matter. Hv. A senator may have a word with a president later if she wants to discuss it. Hence, presidents themselves may ask senators to observe their words if they feel fully appreciated during the years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u26	A respectable president. I don't support this proposal, and I'll account for the vote that way. But I'm here on behalf of the senators sitting in such a way that they didn't see a table when votes were paid and desires that votes never end until the image of the voter has appeared in the side hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u27	Mr. President. As suggested by the majority, prolongation of part-back range is expected in this suggestion. But there's also expected that the status rate could go down to 25% and we've noticed in the Economic and Business Committee that the company has called for this. They prefer e.g. Four employees with the professional driver, at least 25%, but having two in 50%. They want to maintain recruitment relations with others so that when we start straightening out, people can be called to work quickly and well, and the companies haven't lost them anything else. It's important that this is how it's done. I hope that if the other part is going to cancel the change that I think he's going to make, then look at it. the welfare committee for this at least and look at the reviews that have come to mind. The Economic and Business Committee on this topic. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u28	Mr. President. When changes were made in our part-change path, I had serious doubts that it would be right to move the percentage up to 50%. One reason why I think it's right. The welfare committee is given the opportunity to examine the current bill, just as it is true that it is not evidence to examine this ratio with some considerable limit, especially when it comes to a major business of free organisations. I hope so, and I am really convinced that such methodology can be met here at a Senate Hall. In the end, it will prove to be a more inexpensive solution to the great problems we face.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u29	Mr. President. The majority suggest that all who lost their jobs in March get a six - month - long pay period, but we suggest that those who were unemployed in February also have a time period of income. There were 10,000 people out of work in February, and it's incomprehensible to me that the government, the left, the independent group, wants to leave these people behind. That is worse than the others who lost their jobs later in the year. And how much would this change cost? It never costs more than 4 billion. It cannot cost more than 4 billion. In comparison, the cost of losing money and the support we are currently working with at the council is 50 billion. This is what Katrín's Jakobsdóttir's government is called justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u30	A respectable president. Now we're about to vote for a grant of 50,000 bucks, tax and inadequacies, which is a great deal of joy. However, it sets a specific question mark to each song system that we have created at the same time as increasing those who need a maximum rise of 19,700 bucks. is people who get a lump in the stomach when they have an increase. They're the only ones inside the social security system. That people need a lump in their stomach because they can reduce special rent or other benefits is absurd and to our high - grade shame. I sincerely hope that as we agreed to do this, we too would agree that no one should worry about getting an up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u31	Mr. President. This, of course, is a step. We need to do better, but I'm incredibly happy that we're finishing this case, this single payment, now on December 9, that we've reached it quickly. It can make a big difference in the payment of a single payment for Christmas to those who are in disability money. I'm glad we're finishing 3rd. The matter now, but not in all the last days before Christmas. Well done, everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u32	Mr. President. I come up here primarily to say that I think this case shows proper priorities. It is being met with those whose feet are locked in a group of microenergy donors, thus spending most of their money on those who need it. I'd like to agree too with what. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir, it's a joy to go. The welfare committee has taken this matter as easily as it really is. It matters and shows the determination of the Generals to meet this group. It's a good thing, and I'm glad it's here for release.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u33	A respectable president. There's reason to celebrate this bill. The main suggestion is that we calculate the specific replacement of 95% of the money-to-payer's accounts under the Social Security Act in place of all the sums, i.e. 100% income insurance. So we're cutting down outside the one-dollar bill for 50,000 bucks. which are tax-free. This is of utmost importance, and I welcome the solidarity that has been achieved and rejoice that it is being handled now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u34	Mr. President. I'm celebrating a monopoly on disability and rehabilitation of pensions. I allow myself to remind me of the wish of the Corporate Community to pass the payment by Christmas. The Central Party supports this matter, of course. Even so, the middle class and I would have wanted the currency to be the same for those who have the right to pay a pension, i.e. Older citizens, and will make a suggestion of that subject on the payment of the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u35	Mr. President. How valuable it is for us senators, when one of us gets out of line in choice of words, to have a president who has never taken a big name or who has never been very quick to speak! But because of the highest. The president made comments on why. This is Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. I want to know exactly what was going on over him. Was it what she said about being directed to the countryside, which it is indeed being done, in comparison to what she said in the sentence before, or was it what she said about the government being ashamed of?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u36	I'm sure that's what I'm going to do. Yes, it was a comment at the moment. A senator expressed his meaning that it was someone's special will or aim to direct people to the progress of rural society, and for that, a person should have shame. They found a president overly deep in this year, making comments of the kind that are written when a president feels that a man could be more careful about his words. That's right, as a matter of course. The senator says that the man of this matter, and now, in very few cases, has received such comments, and has not gone over it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u37	Mr. President. I'm not going to have any more words about it, but just to let you know that I disagree.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u38	The pain of the choice. It is the role of a president to evaluate these matters, and, of course, they are not infallible. But usually there is little time to decide whether there is any reason to make a comment, to tap the bell, or to ask members of the council kindly to watch their words. I can't see that there is anything other than the duties and roles of the president, trying to see that meetings are done by order.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u39	A respectable president. I have to agree with what. Einarsson I disagree with this President's explanation. I think it's more than just dancing on the line with members of Congress' freedom of speech when it's such a matter that the government can't be said to be ashamed of. This is heart business. This is the heat of many groups, many members of Parliament. I think the highest. Mr President, with all due respect, who I know is trying to be in position with great respect, should not be so skin years when it comes to the government, because he is the president of all of us. He's not the president of the government, he's the president of all of us. And it's our job to defend the freedom of the council here. It has been partially impaired, not because of a president, but because of the situation. Rather, I want more clear guidance from the highest. A president of what he's going to do when he presents his suspicions about the affairs of members of the council here. In this pit, great and large words, such as groves, sluts, dusilics, and punctuation, have fallen from the right half of the dog. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon son, who was blessed by the release of the President Steingrímur J. Sigfússon.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u40	A respectable president. I simply want the president to look at his comments on the choice of words. Senators of this hall, whether a group of members of the council has something to say about how much fear and how bad they get a reminder from a president for word selection. I have a feeling that it matters whether a member of the Parliament is in a government or a government position. It would be good if the president could assure us that there was no difference, that members of the Parliament are not told by which side of the board they sit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u41	As far as we can see, the president continues to feel that he is biased in his work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u42	Mr. President. The president has often admonished me not to talk too long in a talk chair, and I will not take it personally. I know that the president tries to protect his work zealously, and I don't think Congress officials need to be skin - years, even though a president makes a statement like this and asks them to watch their words when they whisper. However, I wanted to respond to a comment that came here from the question. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. I think it's wrong, and I would protest if she kept it back here, that the freedom of the council was impaired in this Covid state. The freedom of speech by members of the council has not been impaired in the council hearing. It has been suggested that not everyone is here at once, but the freedom of speech has not been restricted. Everyone has been able to discuss the matters they want.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u43	A respectable president. To underscore this, I find freedom of speech at the council, although at times I feel that I am trying to limit it to some extent by a certain way. When I say freedom of speech is impaired, it's because it's restricted on Congress days. We have had limited time to discuss big, important subjects. We have to think about what we're going to do at this council, how we're going to plan this so that we can get a democratic discussion on the subject. It is for the first time in the fall of the year that we are discussing disease control issues. It also brings me to my attention, so I'm going to go to another Spanish event if the procurator of the Independence Party agrees that the president of a short U.S. Congress or administrates simply to say that the government is to be ashamed of certain aspects of his political priorities. I don't think it's a good idea if it's the Independence Party's assessment that it would interfere with the freedom of members of Congress to express their opinion of how the government has behaved on a certain occasion. [[The president calls.]] I think the government's doing pretty well in some fields, but it's a disaster in others. Will I be wide enough for that or will I not? [[The president calls.]] I just have no idea if that's going to happen forever.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u44	A respectable president. I also wanted to respond to comments. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargis, said that this code had not been impaired with the free speech of members of Congress. It's simply not right. We have reduced the number of session days, and unless they are absolutely certain that they want to speak up, they have strongly encouraged members of the council to stay out of the hall. It has relatively just been arranged so that all members of the Parliament can be at a church hall at the same time and be properly involved in votes. The senators were pressured to take up all the changes and to make a big contribution when it comes to terms on variations. Much has been placed upon members of Congress in cutting their freedom of speech and the right to participate in the democracy. We have been long - suffering about this. We have been very understanding about this. I'd be fine if it was accepted instead of being denied like a dog. The head of Congress is doing here. He may have forgotten what it was like last spring and summer, but I haven't forgotten. It's gotten better now, certainly, but the senator's freedom of speech was limited, it's okay to just admit it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u45	Mr. President. It is, of course, difficult for a president to evaluate the words of a panel in a speech chair as quickly as possible. But I'd like to express my opinion that in times of need. paritaprevir The daughter of Oddný Harðardóttir said that the government should be ashamed if she used a relatively modest, common word, and a relatively neat expression that condemned a stand. I want to remind you, to the highest. A president sitting here used, yesterday I think, the expression crying my things. I believe it is now in the midst of harder words than it is to say that someone may be ashamed of his stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u46	Mr. President. I'd like, in view of what it says. paritaprevir Katrín's Gunnarsdóttir's Þorgerður, specifically, mentions that at the time I was the vice president some time ago, it was very often the time when you had to knock on a bell and make comments to the members of Congress when a president felt that he was crossing the line to some extent. I'd say that there were a lot of verbal exchanges between Congress and presidents, and that makes me feel the response to this particular president's comment here in some way completely out of all credit cards. But more important to me, I protest it over and over again, and again, if I have an opportunity, that here the freedom of Congress was impaired or democracy was somehow limited in the council, even though men may have tried to organize themselves so that there would be no more in the house at any given time than it is necessary to maintain jobs. They have been able to register and participate in the discussions they want.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u47	Mr. President. It is an interesting discussion that is not only about words but also about style. You see, it is very important for members of the Parliament to be able to express themselves freely here on the political practices of others in either the greater part or less, without ever having to expect to be treated by those behind the speaker. It is part of freedom of expression that we do not always have to expect to be decomposed. The President of the General Assembly, who is in charge of choice of words. V.E.G. A president uses terms about other members of the council, such as leaving the crews, thus minimizing the experiences of the people on the highest level. President. You see, it is also part of all of this, our great interaction here at the Hall of Congress, that we respect one another, and that we do not minimize the experiences or words of others.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u48	Mr. President. I hope the President doesn't think I'm part of some kind of crying my part, even though I agree with the criticisms that have shown up here on unnecessary criticism of the choice of words. Parliamentaries on the platform. I wish that the threshold for such intervention may be slightly elevated. I think there's a reason for that. We're not all that sensitive around here. There's no need to pretend.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u49	Mr. President. Of course, it can be understood that it is difficult for a president to evaluate the comments of members of Congress, so to speak, immediately. That is understandable. Perhaps it is not proper to speak of the reduced freedom of speech in this regard, perhaps deep down in the year, but it may be uncomfortable for a senator if he is to expect to be found by the president when he initiates such expressions as this. paritaprevir This was the case with a daughter named Oddný G. Harðardóttir, who was relatively insignificant. I think it's the best thing to do in this, and the best thing to do is to bring this finding back to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u50	That doesn't mean President's decisions are final and will not be appealed. That's probably been pointed out. This certainly is difficult in part - if it is. A senator only pauses because the president has begun to comment on this on another level - we presidents have a problem and we will discuss it in our camp. Obviously, the most comfortable life would be for the president who never made such comments and would simply ignore everything, but in my opinion he would not be the president needed by the Council. It is obligatory for the president to see that meetings are conducted in a good order and make comments if he considers the expression, the use of words, not the meaning, exceed the desired limits for humans to stay within. Then there are several stages of how the president responds. When the senator has finished speaking, he is making some sort of comment. This was done in this case. It is more important to stop the candidate's speech in the middle of a talk and make the comments than at times it is. Sometimes it's enough here, just knocking on the bell. [[The president calls.]] This is all so fairly ecstatic, but it does not free the president from the obligation to try to keep his place in this regard, even though he knows that by doing so he will not necessarily yield to the particular popularity of members of Congress. That's it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u51	A respectable president. I'm not gonna have many words about this, but I'd like to stress that this was a very serious case, people have to go to the countryside, they have to go to the country, and it's embarrassing. These two mentioned why. paritaprevir Oddný new G. Harðardóttir in his speech. To that end, she had not only right but I believe it was her duty as a senator to tell her mind as he was, about this. That's why I think the highest. The president was mistaken when he made a comment to this expression, which I believe both expressed a spirit. The senator's position, as well as that, was an actual description of the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u52	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize a change in the law on the subject of investigation and the suiting of taxes. As regards what is called a double punishment, these cases also have to be handled in the same way. The objective of the bill is to strengthen the surveillance and research of tax collections, and it is to be expected that laws will increase in the fight against tax fraud. Amongst the bill is that the office of the government's tax investigator will be canceled, and instead there will be a special unit within the tax, but the taxpayer will hear directly under the tax authorities. In addition, it is suggested that pressures be used in conjunction with governmental fines or incursion due to tax laws. In addition, there are some suggestions in the bill to further explain the preparation of a study following tax fractions that will help to make the system more efficient and beneficial. Trying to strengthen the safety of individuals in an effort to investigate taxes, particularly in terms of short - term treatment and simple court treatments. It also considers what has been presented in the European Court of Human Rights that the safest way to ensure that it is not violated. Protocol field No. 7 The European Convention of Human Rights is not using pressures as well as penalties. I will now review key elements of the bill. It is suggested that the office of the government tax research director be canceled and its assignment moved to the office of the governor of the tax. There will be a special unit within the tax, controlled by the taxpayer and under the tax authorities, where tax violations and fines decisions will be investigated. As a result, a tax investigator will be careful to maintain his independence in an investigation of tax fractions and fines decisions. Is expected to be at the head of the state tax, while the professional activities of the module will be directed by the head of the tax. There is no evidence that changes were made to the sources proposed by the current tax investigator for the treatment of tax fractures and remains unchanged after the changes presented here. By uniting under one institution all tax control and the research on tax laws, the shape of such rules will become simpler, and the system more efficient, where the head of the state will decide in each case in doubt cases. In addition, the taxation criteria should be developed to determine when a matter should be given a special tax examination. The conversion of the product's resources for application is not aimed, such as due to late forwards and return to the stock markets and the pay label. There is a clear understanding of the administrative issues that are supplied within the tax system and of the more serious cases being treated, in accordance with the publication of the district attorney's orders, on the basis of Article 21. the treatment of criminal cases. This is where we're talking about serious cases that are being treated as punishment. The investigation and the decision of fines due to tax charges will be made in the hands of an tax investigator, in the case they do not fall under the order of the district attorney. This suggests that the head tax committee does not have guilty authority in larger cases. Rather, the commission will be in the role of an independent panel taking charge of a tax investigator's decision to fines. Still, the court's route stands open, and taxpayers can conclude on the pressures of fines and fines under courts. The bill also suggests that the district attorney is ordering an order on the basis of the criminal treatment of which cases should be referred to the police. Thus, the evaluation of which fractures is considered to be a major fracture in the sense of 262. g. legal cases, to directly refer them to the investigation and charges. At such instructions, the changes made in the bill of the tax investigator's fines and reasonable consideration of the severity of fractures, degree of resolve may be considered, whether it is documented or, depending on the events, the number of fractures involved. Furthermore, by order of the district attorney's attorney, it will be certain that what case will be investigated as a criminal from the beginning and under the control of the attorneys or investigators by police authority will be explained. Then the investigation of the criminal due to tax law is decided to take place under the charge of a accuser. It is normal to hide the office of the district attorney investigation of such cases, where a criminal investigation must be directed by the police, since police authority must be exercised by the investigator. It is difficult to transfer the change to the tax investigator's authority beyond what has already been said about the legal status of those who were tested by the local tax investigator. By the rules of the bill, it is not intended to contribute to the expertise in fiscal violations based on two sites, i.e. ... withinthe taxandthepolice of the police department. The aim is for more problems to be solved within the tax system and only larger and more serious matters to be investigated by the police. Furthermore, the change is suggested that if the district attorney feels that it is not proper to continue the case or not, he can return a case to the tax authorities. In such a case, the matter may end within the tax system, possibly with the possibility of stress, but not with a concomitant guilt decision. Since a local district attorney can prioritize a case, a reimbursement to the tax system is at the same time being reimbursed and should be developed for an investigation of tax fractions. This should lead to more efficient use of human resources in other systems research. In addition, the rules of the bill make sure that there is no other place to be done within the tax system that could destroy the investigation of the criminal case, as well as avoid major reimbursement within the tax system requiring repeated research. However, this does not prevent a reevaluation of taxes, to form if their decision can grow old for the duration of the investigation. Then the bill suggests that if the case goes into an investigation by a local district attorney, which will result in a release of charges, it will lead to re-evaluation of taxes without pressure within the tax system. This is no matter how the case is angry within the courts, whether it is a judicial case or acquiesced. At the same time, an examination of the tax status of the district attorney will lead to re-evaluation of taxes without pressure. If a case is later canceled by the office where the study is not likely to lead to conviction, this could possibly result in stress along with a re-evaluation of taxes. It is important that the local district attorney informs in all cases about the results of the study in order to re-evaluate and that further regulations will be agreed in the Regulation on the implementation of tax control and tax research. Finally, the application of pressures along with the decision of guilt is suggested to be excluded. It has now been brought into law a special preliminary law that will not be put under pressure on tax fines. This was done by law No. 33/2020. This program suggests that the law will be permanently established, but with more specific adjustments that will result from the bill's proposals. A respectable president. I want to be able to do this in particular about one point that can be read in the overview of the bill, which shows that, as it was said, some of the managers wanted to go beyond what is being done here. First of all, I want to let it happen that I think we're here to do a long time's rights, long time. In fact, we have had the case presented as a matter of Congress to consider more than one committee of experts for many years. It has been a challenge to consider what we have been convinced is necessary to make adjustments in the handling of these matters. Here I especially refer to comments made on the activities that have been carried out, in the opinion of the European Court of Human Rights, double punishment. I'm going to say first that I think it's totally undisputed that this system is far from being faultless. However, it must be noted that the comments made by the Court of Human Rights on this point are important that certain treatments can determine whether the treatment and the application of the treatment and later fines are in conflict with the European Convention of Human Rights. Much of this matter is important, such as whether the person involved could well appreciate that the matter would continue and agree to the treatment. However, no matter how you look at it, it is important that you bring the treatment into place only once in a matter of comment. No matter how serious the offense is, it is not natural for humans to have to go through the process of research and outcome twice. Rather, we must always plan that such an outcome is once and for all. Even if there's more than one level of judgment, etc., it's the same course, if I could put it that way. Why am I specifically suggesting that this is an important step of rights? This is because in the discussion section of the bill, some managers want to go further in the sense of taking this matter into account matters that are still unsolved in our court order today. But this isn't the place to give it up. However, we took this step by law No. 33/2020, which was a preliminary arrangement already to stop the activities that had been practiced until that day and to ensure, while making this case, that we would move the work done in line with what was being planned. That's what I think was absolutely necessary. Yet, that in itself was not a definitive decision on how we handle matters that are still alive. The bill I'm here measuring is not a suggestion to cancel a lawsuit because of the things that are still living in the system. I'm going to make it happen that after reviewing reviews, it's the end of the billaries. As we have seen in this discussion, there were differences in viewpoints, as the conclusion of the discussion section says: An overview of the work group's objectives was given to stakeholders with the bill's contract and various ways to set down the work force's objective. While changing opinions about the route selected may not be abnormal, they do not change the bill. In the preceding paragraph, it is suggested that more than one report called for a longer walk. I'm just trying to put a hook on my way to history in this case to draw attention to this particular situation. I think it's important for the council to evaluate this situation independently. I say for myself because I feel that this case has been done especially well and prepared, and so I recommend it before the council. Yet, I follow through with those words that I do not find this to be a simple conclusion on the yet open issues. Then I think it's important, when you look at this point, that we're trying to make a right with this matter. We're making a better case here. Of course, while working on reforming, you may not fully agree that other matters that are older and that you have not been happy with them continue as if nothing has happened. This isn't exactly something. I encourage the committee to take these viewpoints into consideration and to look to the possibility of going further. It must be kept in mind that our government system has been very careful with the implementation of matters. However, we have been given these comments to a tax offense, and we have come to the conclusion that they are right. Then the question remains, What should be done with the issues to come about? This is what I ask men to examine very carefully. I'm not giving in to responsibility to make this case without any changes here for the council. The bill will appear before the council, as I have received it from the expert profession. A very good work has been done there. There is reason to say that we have had good cooperation with specific organizations, so I think that I have succeeded in dealing with the solutions under it. A respectable president. I think I've seen everything that's important in this bill. Here are suggestions for the simpler and clearer treatment of taxes. The rules of investigation and the prosecution are made clearer and more beneficial, and we aim for the more practical use of the workers involved in the investigation and the suitation of tax lawlessness. Of course, shorter treatments of tax fractions are also planned in time, thus increasing the risk of better collections of fines and stress when appropriate. This will be a temporary cost to the combination of these components, but for a time it should be more permanent and more economically achieved by the joint utility and the more efficient use of human resources. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u53	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. I just wanted to come up here to make sure that I was concerned on my council of this team, and I just wanted to talk to the minister about it. It was, for example, a clear story. I have talked over time about raising money to the head of the tax, making the office stronger than it is today. It's up to one hat where the tax officer is going to be in charge. Indeed, it is stated that the person should be an independent, professional department within the tax, and that such a well - traced department, and I am quite aware that a number of eco-efficiencys will be achieved by such unity, as practical. When people move under the same roof, the nature of a matter according to many factors may be more shared. But I'm worried, and I'm not going to hide it, because we're going to have to do more tax research. Indeed, as a minister said, money should not be reduced now, but economic gain could become evident later. The funds will be paid to the head of the state tax, not to the head of an IRS. I want to talk to the highest. Ministers that we see that the funding within the office does not result in the loss of the tax investigator as the years go by, because I think there is more to it than not to be increased.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u54	A respectable president. Yes, I'm just saying, it's very important that tax research is sufficiently financed. In recent years, we have been looking forward to financing special initiative projects and what has been called after, both from the head of the tax and from one tax investigator. In the past, we have been continuing to increase our financial resources to the seminary. Let us not forget that part of the well - funded budgeting of this group is living well in this business, and today, for the shortest part, an invitation to new housing for the tax to ensure that the function will become a perfect new rented house and that the entire operation will move into one and the same station here in the capital area, which has been a bit scattered. It is also important for humans to finance and ensure that information technology is well financed and that this is the means of research. Tax research includes so as to examine the data, using artificial intelligence when appropriate, and all of these are in financial support. This involves not only having enough individuals but also having the tools, equipment, and everything else that supports the operation. I don't think there should be any disagreement, but I believe that the way here has been chosen is likely to reach the goals mentioned by the senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u55	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the answer. Truly, there have been changes during that time. We've established the local district attorney's office. As we recall, it is the fact that the prosecution might have been covered by a tax investigator. It says there is a need for further analysis of this and its impact. Unforeseen problems and challenges are discussed, not as to who they might be. As I said before, I'm at a cost to such a union, but that doesn't change the impact of saying that the governor of the tax is the official who is the head of a tax investigator. He is certainly supposed to keep his independence, but considering how the sum of money is divided in all of the bonds, one must feel sorry that that part of the office will not be paid. I feel that there is still a huge need to investigate a large and extensive tax law, I feel that it has shown itself over the years, and it will certainly not be less in the years to come. It's just a question of how we can follow it. Yes, perhaps by obtaining an overview of the number of cases or such from the office when this has happened. At any rate, I feel that I have to pay very close attention to the fact that the tax researcher and the tax research of this kind, which have been in the hands of these parties, will never wait for a lower share.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u56	A respectable president. Maybe I just have enough to say that nothing is less responsible for the governor than for the taxpayer, to see that tax research is being followed with force. On the contrary, the governor is given the exact same responsibility to ensure that tax research is done by law and by the amount of money that comes with, for a dollar, into a new office. Here we are concerned that some of these funds may become new. As I was referring to my case, I think there is a greater chance that space will grow by putting the whole operation to one place. We will be able to make better use of human beings. Similarly, this new system is designed to reduce double design and have a better understanding of the situation so that a number of cases are not examined in more than one place. The way I see it, this is a big progress, and if there's anything else, we should be able to see the better use of money in the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u57	Mr. President. The government of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, is in an orderly way destabilizing very important clinics in Icelandic society. In June of last year, law approved by my opinion and by many others had fallen to weaken the SEC. Our last spring team was weakened by legalization, and now the teeth are to be pulled from the head of the tax. I'd like to briefly review changes to the FDA and the Contestance. Last spring, we were faced with a question of whether an independent bank with the entire financial watch would be stronger to cope with future traumas. There were differing opinions within the council as well as on the outside. I don't think it was a good step for the FDA or the Secret Bank. A general view of the system risk and strong monitoring of the financial sector is necessary, but the route proposed by the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and passed by the law is, in my opinion, likely to weaken the SEC and create distrust in Iceland's Federal Bank. One of the lessons of the financial crash is the importance of a clear understanding between those in charge and those who have the means to secure financial stability. This lesson was ignored by the board of directors with the approved law on the Sentencing Bank. In the reviews as long as possible. The Economic and Business Committee received a bill warning that trade management would be submitted to an independent bank. All of this is because bank managers have to be able to use and make decisions that could be unpopular for politicians, decisions that have long - term interests in the public but that do not serve the short - term interests of politicians or classes, in order to form pre-elections. Worried about a great reputation risk for cash banks that do business management are not out of the open air. It is good to remember what happened when the Federal Bank was committed to the Department of Pension and how they handled the Federal Bank and the Samherja case. Trust in the bank of cash is very important in a small country. In a small country, personal conflicts may be brief, and what damages the bank's reputation may also damage the bank's reputation. It is true to remind you that in all other Norwegian countries financial control is an independent institution, but the federal groups received their laws that I believe clearly weaken the SEC, and I fear it was the very meaning of our union. Mr. President. During the final days of last assembly, Katrín's government drove the daughter of Jakobsdóttir against a bill that weakens the Syndicate when it was second-handd in the economic situation of Covid-19. In addition, in comparison with the international market and the huge interests of consumers, there is a healthy competitive environment here. Thus, effective monitoring of competition is even more important here than in larger lands. With poor supervision, companies can make good use of circumstances to create a monotonous position that works against the interests of the public. Change done already. The economic and business committee, the smaller part, slightly reduced the damage caused by otherwise, but remains that the range of reported fusions increased substantially so that large fusions are not reported. Businesses are also aimed at evaluating whether the conditions of competitive cooperation are met, in order to deal with changes. Government officials accepted no consideration of the changes in economy and employment life followed by Covid-19. The bill's report, which became legal in June last June, shows that it is also written. in order to take into account that there have been significant changes in Icelandic economy since the last turning of the competition in 2011. It says, by permission of the President: A major increase has been observed in recent years in specific areas of employment in which high competition has led to considerable involvement in enterprises with one another and a number of fusions. Everyone can be aware that significant changes have occurred in the Icelandic economy after Covid-19 and therefore these criteria have simply failed for the bill. However, even though we are in the deepest crisis for 100 years, directors kept on going. The SEC is aimed at preventing the development of business barriers. The risk of blocking is even higher in conditions that have now occurred after Covid-19. So it was hardly the right way to use this difficult environment to create an ideal setting for the dominant firm at a low-level market and the importance of not increasing the cost by creating a mono-nuity company on the market. Clearly, this is against the interests of the public. In 2011, we stood in the United States and left green, which were then in the government, strengthening the competitive movement to create an active competition. There was a fundamental purpose for protecting public interests. In particular, the aim was to compete for the market for customers to improve the public interest and to increase the energy of their professional life. In this way income and taxes are made that would make it easier to run a better welfare system. On the other hand, active competition is not self - sufficiency, and large companies in the small Icelandic market have great interests by subtracting it, and especially by reducing the monitoring of competitiveness. In 2011, we met a great deal of opposition from the Independence Party, the Association of Business Life, and the Business Council. This special interest struggle failed as we and VG joined together in promoting necessary business control and management. These same members used their positions to weaken the Contestant Board, with the support of the left movement ▪ This time a green bid. The government's efforts to weaken the Contestance Commission are not in line with the development of competitive policies in Europe over the past few years. In this regard, ideologies have been based on strengthening the law, not weakening it, as it was here. Now, the bill we discuss today is supposed to weaken the office of the tax investigator. That, in my opinion, is a completely unscrupulous arrangement but in good accordance with other measures at the highest level. Governments, which result from poorer control of money management and the majority of companies. It would be almost to strengthen the office of the head of the IRS, as many reports and analysiss have been discussed, and the Congress of the United States since the last council is expected. In this matter of Congress, there is also a series of articles. Until more than 25 years, regular attention has been made to the need to eliminate the obvious double action in a tax fraud and economic crime study and the publication of the charges on that subject, both in Congress cases as well as in many reports and analyses. The situation in this country is slow and costly, and it is not in favor of the government or the alleged defendants. In addition, with a long period of treatment, there is an increased risk of a hearing that leads to a milder judgment or even to a more extenuating act. As legislation is now being conducted, the number of fractures considered to be serious based on the results of an tax investigator's study is referred to a local prosecutor for a public study and regular tax treatment. According to the tax investigator's records, although the cases from the office are presented according to the terms referred to in the statement to the local district attorney, the investigation is generally not from the basis of the case but is by the whole study of the trial conducted by the tax investigator and is described in his report on the relevant case. In order to improve efficiency, the tax investigator should be suing the case of the investigator, but in September 2018, 140 were unsolved cases from the local tax investigator. Project Management of Change and Improvement of the 2016 IRS concludes and suggests that investigation will only be done for the treatment of the head of the tax on charges. The guilt of tax law requires special knowledge and expertise, both in research and in the prosecution. It helps to be efficient that the same person cares for both. Such forms are known in other countries, including Germany. Then there are countries that we would like to compare with trying to integrate between expertise in tax rights and the effectiveness of charges. Money laundering is often linked to tax fraud, and tax law is one of the primary violations of money. An investigation of money theft is by law in the hands of a district attorney. On the other hand, because of the high level of financial thefts involved in primary violations, it is good to investigate money - evasion due to tax fraud along with the tax fractions involved. That order has recently been installed in Sweden. In the Panama Documents, Iceland's population was complex and complex. The Samerian documents call for an investigation of complex transfers and opinions in at least three countries, and we have not been very successful in dealing with money theft and terrorist funding. It is obvious, President, to further research on tax laws and to make them more efficient. It is absurd to abandon the office of the head of the IRS in the way the bill assumes. To solve it at the highest. A minister went over earlier on two counts of penalties can be taken in other ways. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. Of course, the Economic and Business Committee will handle this matter well. There I will emphasize that the sides I have mentioned will be carefully considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u58	A respectable president. It's a bill. It's a TV. The financial and economic ministers, who take action, and perhaps no less, the work of the agencies who handle these matters, are time enough. For some time, it has been evident that these issues have had to be explained and refined, and it seems to me at first glance that this bill will do well in this regard. One of the major lesions, if a word can be used, in terms of tax violations, in terms of lawsuits, has been the concept of ne bis in the Ideam, criticism and tribunal in terms of this concept and, of course, the criticism we have received from the European Court of Human Rights. It's a joy to be taken to the top. The secretary of finance sees that it needs to be treated when the Court of Human Rights feels that we are at odds with that treaty, as it is known that the parties are committed to it. But from reading the report, it seems to me that this is why the government ordered a committee that was proposed to make a change in view that double punishments would no longer be used in an investigation and the prosecution of tax lawlessness. I must say, I feel that the committee has been well organized and that the people have been able to produce good results in the billing process. The reason and background of the bill at the highest. Financial ministers are the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights on cases where tax laws have both led to stress on the grounds of taxes and the prosecution. The whole case has been on the 4th floor. The 7th Convention's Amendment of the Convention of Human Rights, which deals with that right. Of course, this is a matter of principle in a criminal court, as well as the human rights of the defendant not to be accused or punished twice for the same offense. According to this bill, the government considers that the judges of the Human Rights call for the legal adjustment presented here, of course, because they look to the court's conclusions and because the Court's judgments have meaning for us here and in this bill is being met by the court's requirements. The report refers to certain judicial cases in which the Court's decision was made in three cases before the United States courts that men had been guilty or punished twice for the same offense with additional pressure on taxes and then with a period of penalties. This action, however, seems to be contrary to Article 4. Seventh contract service. It is in my mind a great advantage that if there's a legal case, there will be no pressure on provinces. It matters, and there is, of course, a fundamental element in this relationship. I hope we have this bill to close that chapter that there is reason to worry about this point. Right - to - face consequences of failure to resist an opinion of a procedure in this respect are simply a problem that goes into the sink. It's happened here on the land. A point in this bill, which I think is also an improvement, is that the district attorney gives instructions on the type of case going to the police. It is in the hands of the prosecution to decide, but it is in the hands of the prosecution to draw that line instead of the tax investigator. It's normal for me to think that it's that way. This will also result in the practitional consequences and the pragmatic effects that can be controlled in this way and that the prosecution's main steps are being followed. There is an excellent review of the work that has been done in this area in the North countries, and it seems to me that the project was looked into there by the bill's contract. It's traced clearly in the report. I can't exactly see that, obviously, one country is being pursued instead of another. Of course, there is no central point here, but I find it possible to see that there has been a fairly thorough study of how other northern countries have done so in these areas. And to be fair, it's not that Iceland is the only state that has faced the problem of explaining between stress and prosecution so as to ensure that there is no conflict with the rule that men will not be punished twice for the same offense. The bill also states that the investigation of the crimes due to tax law is under the control of an accused. It is normal to hide the local district attorney's investigation of these cases, since it is by nature a criminal investigation that requires her to be directed by the police. That point is clear in the bill, and it needs to be clear. It's also difficult, I think, to plan on implementing the change to bring police authority to the tax investigator beyond what is already said about the legal status of those who are being investigated by the tax investigator according to current law. The objective and outcome of this seems to me to be that a greater proportion of cases will be resolved within the tax system and only a larger and more serious matter will be taken to the police investigation. I think that's an option. I have not specifically considered moving an tax investigator to the government tax management office, but I would say that in view of the nature of the two organizations, this change will be handled well, and I look forward to the debate here at the Congress Hall on that point. I think in that relationship it is only natural to look at how other North countries have solved this problem. Mr. President. I find that in this discussion, it's only possible, about a bill that leads to a fundamental change in the system that has a large and extensive tax law, than to mention the financing of the system. The fact is that the treatment period has been a problem, and the trial period is a problem in many parts of the system but only in foreign matters, as can be understood by the Minister of the Independence Party, but the treatment period has been a problem in the treatment of larger taxes and other economic offenses. The length of the treatment period is an increased viewpoint. In fact, the importance is always to increase, and a long period of court treatment is an increasingly recognizable viewpoint of both national and international courts. We can see that, for example. Of course, the court's judicial action today and the overgrading of a case would include a rather serious violation of the legal rights of the defendants. It is difficult that the treatment of the matter should be minimized, but the reason for this to occur is usually simple. With regard to these fractions, tax law and economic violations others, especially the major, the reality is simply that there are fractions and issues that are difficult in research and prosecution, there are plenty of data to go through and those cases simply work a little slow. It is also a fact that over the years, too many jobs have been done, too many languages. Socially, the result is that courts that judge these matters have felt that certain violations of certain cases merited a particular penalty, but they judge it less than they themselves consider to have been right because of the time of the trial. That conclusion is not socially beneficial, so I pray to the highest level. Secretary of finance to consider the scene at the same time that this bill is based on the legal rights of the defendants and the end of the system, and maybe third, and now it's not the last thing, from the community interests that are behind, because tax laws are, of course, violations against community interests, the failure of the competitiveness of the companies who are competing with companies that do not. I ask the secretary of finance to give the system concomitantly with this bill the opportunity and the power to handle the situation so that the trial period will be better. But at the same time, with the system being fully explained and meeting the demands of a human rights contract, it should also be the most competitive. Secretary of finance giving the system a chance to take good care of these matters, but also fast. I would, in that relationship, encourage the highest. Secretary of finance to now implement existing proposals and suggestions that I believe were in the past. It's been reported, we own the data, we have plans for how we as a community can handle fraud and fraud as these, which cost the community all the money, we need to watch it and put an increased focus on the fact that this is a violation against society's entire and common interests. Of course, these violations affect the government's ability to finance, e.g. It's an important work. It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... It's... But then I'll put this together, I'll celebrate this bill. It seems to me that this has done quite well to solve the problems that we have faced and that, as I would come on at the end, along with this bill wishes that the top would. The secretary of finance goes on to provide funds for the system in order to win the issues that arise in the system, faster than today, and it will, of course, be done with increased financial support, but also political work to implement the suggestions that already exist that we as a community need to handle these offenses more systematically. I would now think that the conditions in the Icelandic economy today require that we bring in the tax revenues as an enterprise and individuals should pay because we truly need a community at all costs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u59	A respectable president. I measure here for three primes, as the president spoke about: Firstly a bill to correct integration services in the interests of successful children, secondly a bill to legalize children and family rooms, and third, a bill to set up the QA and Health Organization. These bills, as the president mentioned, are linked because the second two bills relate to the first, which is a new universal law on integrating services for the benefit of children. At first, I'd like to say that the changes we're discussing here at 1st. is in my mind some of the largest system changes that have been involved in the affairs of children in the past. Before I begin to explain the bills, it is important to follow their leadings because the basics we address here are the results of work based on a wide range of cooperation and participations of a number of parties, games and learned ones, including those in the General Assembly. We expect more than 1,000 people to do this work in one way or another. This project was launched in the spring months of 2018 when the one present announced a conference of early intervention on the part of children. Following that conference, five ministers, as well as the Union of Icelandic rural society, signed a declaration in order to break down walls between systems, improve child - care services, and create a childbearing community. As a result, a member of the Board of Directors on Children's Management Board was appointed to serve representatives from all the problems that signed a proclamation. At the same time, a transnational Senate committee on the subject of children was assigned to representatives of all members of the General Assembly. The Parliamentary Committee has not only taken an active part in the process but also oversees the project, and it is very loyal, and I want to thank you for that. So here's why. Members of both the government and the government who know this work well, have shared in molding the bill, and have shown the willingness to conduct it here at the General Assembly. This bill, and the bills we're discussing here, will show that cooperation does not always lead to the lowest of the commons. Teamwork can bring about drastic, drastic, and massive system changes. It shows these jobs. This is shown by members of Parliament who have participated in it that it can indeed be done. In February 2019, the Department of Social Affairs sent a letter to over 600 recipients throughout the country, where local work was brought to attention and encouraged to submit indications and to offer their knowledge, including groups of open meetings. After the results of these parallel groups were established, a regroup was announced in cooperation with a youth's National Association, and it was held in October 2019, under the heading Changes in Children's Interests. At that conference, the key conclusions of the discussion were presented, which included: the call for increased emphasis on early support, the removal of barriers to services, and increased conversation between services. At the same time, there was a plan for the bill I recommend here. The pioneers were then, when they were ready, introduced to a number of stakeholders, including rural society, state institutions, professional organisations, university society, personality protection, free partnerships, and individuals were given the opportunity to get involved in the case, which was set up in June. A respectable president. The goal of the bill is to put the child in the background when it comes to serving children and families. In integrating services, there is increased cooperation across the network and improved partnerships with children under the guidance of the child's interests. The bill includes all the services that are being carried out within the school system, in elementary and higher schools, in vacation homes, and in social centers. It also includes services provided within the medical, health care, clinics, hospitals, and community services provided in rural society, child - welfare services, and the services of disabled children, and even police, for example. The bill also makes it possible to integrate other services enjoyed by children, e.g. In sports and youth service. For the first time, the bill states that all services in behalf of children, all the parties mentioned earlier, should be organized into three stages. This means that we are going to adopt a three - layer service system with children across all other services, and all members must operate within this three - layer system. At the same time, technical solutions have been developed, and the earmarks have been made for a third hundred million, next year's budget will be adopted, and this bill will be added to a project that will be carried out in 2021 to facilitate this cooperation and facilitate this cooperation. This class is accompanied by a uniform set of standards that describe the shift in child service to those three levels, but stewards assigned to expand the development of services in their language field, but within the basic thoughts presented in this bill. A uniform straggler overlooks the service systems that serve children. * * * * * * * * * * * * * * Hence, a wide variety of progressive opportunities for bringing the heavy loads of service to early children and early intervention with the support of all the systems involved in supporting children and their families are being developed. We're used to this kind of attitude, not in personal service. We know in public defense, when disaster strikes in Icelandic society, whether volcanic eruptions, avalanches, storms, or Korean epidemics, that all people meet at the Forest and form a public - sound center. Then all the parties come together, break down walls, work across the grid. With this bill, we are saying: A child in trouble is to be able to enjoy the same service as the public security provided, i.e. that we work together for their interests. The bill also shows that families and children who need early support are assured access to a special contact in their child's surroundings. A contact is usually a health care professional or school according to the age of the child. A contact provides information and assistance for a primary non-system service. He organizes and follows integration. If a child needs a second or third degree of service, the contact will get information about it in the right place. If children need a wide range of support at a second or third stage, a child and his family will be assured of access to a language manager in a community service. A manager provides advice, information, and assistance for a second degree of service across the system, whether it is health care, social services, community service, community service, or state service. He is also responsible for the implementation of supportive programs and support teams and for the services provided in accordance with the supportive plan. Computer solutions are a factor in helping with exactly what is happening in the work of this painter. Thus, the bill assumes that children and families are at the center of a service with a contact and advocate to assist those who continue to bring the matter into cooperation with the child and the family. At the request of a child or a family, contacts and advocates establish active cooperation between those who serve a child. Cooperating includes, you know, the way things work. that these providers are allowed to exchange personal information on their child's circumstances. The bill assumes two new institutions of the Department of Social Affairs that have an important role in this legislation. These are the Children's and Family Room and the Quality and Health Organization and I'm going to be better involved in it below than we're measuring for these matters here at the same time. The bill also anticipates that integration will be supported by consultations, policy plans and sectoral planning and team members involved in professional participation and the participation of their children themselves. In addition, integration will be supported by integrated paediatric data collection. Thus it will be possible to evaluate how the bill measures will affect the situation of children in this country, both in short term and in the long term. The bill is designed to contribute to the future success of children and families, to support the development of children, and to improve their well - being. During the preparation of the bill, the Ministry of Social Affairs also induced advisers to evaluate the economic and economic effects of these changes. An extensive analysis of the costs and benefits of changing legislation was provided in a way that highlights early support and that early intervention is due to reactions to childhood events. Clearly, the funds needed for this project have the most profitable investments you can make in Icelandic society. The financial benefits of these changes are on the part of a pair of investments, such as Chálegan surgery, Cheflavour airports, and other lucrative investments that our community has attacked. There is not the word of a social worker or a social minister, that is knowledge that has come and has been presented according to economic assessments made on a economic foundation. A respectable president. During the first years of this induction, the cost, as mentioned earlier, comes from both the introductions and the services that need to be enhanced. But not after so long, financial benefits outweigh, and so on, especially when the generation that receives services from the bill comes to adulthood in this century. Calculating the financial benefits of the changes presented today in this prime plant has no negative effect on the environment or people, and economic benefits are leading to a better investment in the United States. After all the work that is behind the bill, it is very enjoyable to be able to recommend it here at the National Assembly of Iceland. I believe this bill, and the bills I'm going to go over afterwards will completely change the circumstances of children and families. At the same time, it is a lucrative investment for the future and lays a new foundation in the ministry to children and children's families. They make it necessary for us to use a new thought. We are challenging ourselves to use a new thought when it comes to serving children and children. But I'd also like to say, before I go on the other bills, that this is not the final step of this journey. We're just creating the foundation here. Then we need to base our whole ministry on that thought, and it is the task that will then take place, i.e. building a house on top of the foundation we're creating here. As noted on this page, there are other primes to which this is linked. It is suggested that a new administrative agency be established, which will be promised to a children's and family room. It will take the largest part of the work being done by the Children's Institute and also a new total law. This bill is expanding the Agency's recruitment and supportive role. At the same time, it is intended to separate surveillance from the activities of a new childhood and family clinic by hiding surveillance and licences provided by the Children's Protection Agency, a special surveillance agency recommended in the third bill. It is hoped that there will be a powerful organization where a wide knowledge of children's affairs and activities will grow and their families will grow. If the bill is legal, the Children's Health Agency will be placed in the image it is and this new Children's and Family Office will be founded on it. The work of this new institution will be, as previously said, varied, and they will share in the common association of services to children and their families. This is a wide variety of tasks, and it is important that there be special laws on this institution. If there is a law-enforcement bill on integrating services for successful children, which I recommend here, it is necessary that there be a law that provides detailed counseling and support for the integration between systems required by the bill. A family and children's room is designed to play that role and thus keep the bills in mind. The main focus of the bill is to set consistent rules on children's activities and family at the services of children. The Agency's domain includes the new service, which includes It is recommended in the bill for integrating services in behalf of successful children, in child protection laws, on local social services, in the laws on services to disabled persons with long - term needs, to be mentioned by some. The main role of the Agency will be the support of government services in behalf of children. Children's and family rooms will include can provide advice from fellow workers on the individual issues, e.g. On child protection and integration of services In addition to this project, it is recommended in the bill that the Children's Family Laboratory be given an extensive development, research and education program. The second leading role of a new family and children's home will be the development and management of homes, institutions and specialized planning for children. This will be based on a strong foundation of a child - welfare clinic with years of experience in such child - protection projects. The bill also includes the role of a new family and children's home to keep in mind the processing of information and operating databases and digital solutions that will be needed to support this new thought. Important is -- and it even looks like it looks like it's... to the systems that have to be developed to ensure this integration and that next year's funding have been assured, as I had a chance in my case earlier - that this project is being handled well, although experience has shown, including in children's protection, that lack of compatible digital solutions has serious negative consequences to its processing. This controversial bill includes, as I said, the sentence of a new universal law. At the same time, there are changes in the law to bring about the goal of the bill. To set up an organization like this is a significant step in child service wherever they are in the country. It is hoped that such an institution will become a service to children with greater quality, and we will see the more harmonization between land areas. A powerful central institution is designed to ensure equality between children and to help bring about the growth and prosperity of children in the country's best interests. I emphasize that this new childhood and family room plays an important role in integrating services to the benefit of children and is thus connected with a bill on the subject of an unbreakable bond. So it is important that, as the president mentioned at the outset, they be discussed at the beginning. The welfare committee. Then there's the third bill, which is a bill for the health and welfare legislation. That bill suggests the establishment of a new institution, the QA and the welfare centre. The foundation of the Agency is the Quality and Observation Institute of Social Services and Child Protection, which today is the Ministry of Social Services. A new agency will also accept assignments from other governments, mainly those related to the surveillance of the Children's Institute. The bill means that there will be a new global set on the welfare welfare and observation agency. The objective of this bill is to place surveillance projects on one hand and to ensure that the surveillance provider has no other work to do. The bill adds that the quality of welfare services is being combined. The bill includes consistent rules instead of the different rules that now apply to monitoring services on the topic fields of the Ministry of Social Affairs. If there's a law-enforcement bill on integrating services for successful children, which I recommended before, as well as a bill for child-and-house law, that law is essential to the establishment of an institution that monitors the quality of the integrated integration and the work that's being carried out there. The QA is intended for this role and is therefore maintained on the subject. A respectable president. The main focus of the bill is the holistic and consistent rules of monitoring the quality of welfare services and integration of services for the benefit of children. One of the main roles of the Quality and Health Organization is to give a patent to the private business. In the current legal environment there are various laws on the provision of welfare services. So this is a simple, consistent principle. The bill assumes that all private members serving as members of the Agency's surveillance services will need to have a work permit. At the same time, there are various license-related rules, including permission to grant temporary failures. One of the main roles of the Agency is an effective monitoring of the quality of welfare services. According to the bill, the main focus is on initiative control, which can include: Make field visits. The bill also recommends the results of the surveillance programme. This bill also outlines the Agency's accepting and working out the quality and services complaint. It is recommended that the new quality of services requiring adequate control of the Agency should be used by the New Quality and Health Organization. On the one hand, there is permission to reinvest the management sector and the other to promote day - to - day activities that do not involve the law. The bill includes the sentence of a new universal law. At the same time, changes in other laws are made to make the goal of this bill reality, as was the case with previous bills. In view of what I've traced here through three prime reports, I'd like to say that I'm convinced that I am able to achieve them to walk here at the General Assembly, and we are successful in the induction, which goes in hand during 2021; and we also succeed in holding the cross-cutting approach that has prevailed in this case beyond the next General election, or until the value, which is at the beginning of 2022, I am convinced that these changes will become extremely important, not only for children and families of this country, but for their overall benefit, as the economic analysis shows. A respectable president. I look forward to listening here to a discussion that lies ahead. After that, I suggest that these three cases be referred to why. General welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u60	Mr. President. First, I'd like to commend the highest. Ministers for this case and the issues presented here, and I think and I hope that we will improve our service to children, all children, in whatever situation they may be in. It was a bit exciting to work on these issues because no matter what spread point we had in the committee, we actually found ourselves at the thresholds created by the system, unfortunately. What I may look forward to is our system. I'd like to start by asking the highest. Minister if he's optimistic about the reality of this. We passed last spring law from the General Assembly that says psychological services should be part of the health insurance system. That's how we're going to ensure a better mental health for the public in Iceland. By the end of the day, the highest had been observed. Secretary of finance said there was no money in the box for that. For that reason, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Does he think this will become a reality?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her work on these matters. As I have said, it is precious that representatives of all political parties could set aside daily political debates to work on the case. I don't think it would be here unless we've done it and we've also connected a different system. As if I traced my opening speech here earlier, the introduction will matter. In the next year's financial bill and the financial resources at the Department of Social Affairs, we have guaranteed all the funds needed next year for the induction, to run a special recruitment team, and to develop and design the digital solutions needed to do that work. It is fully financed next year. By the time the year 2022 has been prepared for the work of this issue. That's extremely important. Its focus is on a financial agenda, but the amount needed during the induction period will be finalized. The bill insists that the council suggests that they will be included in a financial programme and that their local branch funds keep their arms around them. The estimate of total cost is 1.33/42 billion per year during the induction period. The economic analyses of both Björn Brynjólfur Björnsson and Haraldur Lingon Líndalur that this work needs to be done accurately and accurately. This does not change the fact that the bill itself requires rich duties to work together as a team. The lyrics are perfectly clear. In fact, these changes should be guaranteed. [[The president calls.]] I believe, however, that it is important that we maintain this transverse solidarity in order to follow through. [[The president calls.]] That's what I brought here in my case, and it's important that we continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u62	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for the contrary, and he agrees that these antipolitic organizations are of prime importance, but they also have to rule as transnational communities within the government. It is not only possible to rely on us in the government situation to ensure that things are going right in here. In fact, we need to rely on you on government groups, that there is a state of solidarity, so we don't have to catch the ball on this case. But, of course, we hope for the best, and I will not lie on my team in this regard. These are issues that are incredibly important, just to ensure this interfaith, this early service, and that the systems are actually talking. I think we'll get far if we can just get there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u63	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator's confidence that there is a full political solidarity within the government on this transnational issue. This is made clear that the funds needed for next year's induction have been assured, as if the case were not brought in here. Following it will be of importance in the years 2022, 223, and 2024, the induction period. It will be prepared in 2021. It's after the next total election. The preparation period, the induction time will be the next optimal period. At least I'll answer for myself as far as it goes. I will not participate in the government community that will stop this work in the middle of the next election. And I trust other political parties will be on the same line. I don't think there's any reason to be afraid because all political groups have come to form this work. We have already provided all the funds needed for the project beyond the next total election of 2021. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u64	A respectable president. Here is where the good news comes from. It's rare that you can spend a day just happy at the council. In particular, I'm glad I've just agreed to the level of 50,000 dollars. ...and then comes the kid's bill, three interconnected cases, which is great, and that's great. I wish it'd only come earlier and had become the law and started working yesterday. Sadly, though, that may be the climax of optimism. But I'm asking the highest. Minister because, if we take this in any metaphor, I see that he's just about to climb Everest. In order to climb Everest, you have to bridge many rocks and have all knots right and perfect cooperation. I'm worried about how we're going to handle the present situation because we know that many children today are in a very bad situation. We see that reports of child protection and violence and that have increased, especially in this epidemic, which has created impossible conditions for many children. Then I ask the minister, " How will he support the project until this is incorporated, and how will we deal with the circumstances that are needed today? ' Unfortunately, the options do not work because there is a waiting list for children and even a waiting list for a waiting list in some cases. It's a very bad situation. I hope he has plan B, C and D in the subject of intervening and trying to put it up as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u65	A respectable president. Before I reach the core question, I want to say that I agree completely with what. Senator. I wish these laws had come true, and they have begun to work. But when we're hooking up, it takes some time. It has proved true in this case. As soon as I agree with the senator on this, I disagree with him about it when he says it to the highest degree. Minister is about to climb Everest. He's not going to do it, we're all going to do what's been done, the whole U.S. Senate, the whole department. That's why we're getting this. This is not because there is one minister who has handled the matter. It's important to keep that in mind. Hv. paritaprevir Sæland Happyland has been as much involved as the members of other political parties. However, when it comes to today's situation, we have been setting up funding for certain projects. We've been reacting with a special wake-up call on child protection. We've been working with the Red Cross on several telephone services. We're about to add to the diagnostic and counseling post. So we need to keep it going in the way we are doing but at the same time keep an eye on this system change to some extent can change this. That service as a matter of course. A senator mentions this new bill of phase 3 service. We're talking about adding the second and first phase and analysis, which were the other phases. of Haraldur Linger Líndalur, in the processing of these cases, and was introduced when the bill was introduced, to some extent, by the cost of food, all the odds of achieving this first and second stages will be reduced to a third degree, but there are also costly measures. We're very late to do this. But it's the job, to react. So as soon as we have to keep things going, we need to do everything we can to speed up the progress of this matter, and it can begin to work right at the beginning of 2022.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u66	A respectable president. I appreciate the answers. I deeply agree with him that this is going to be a big project. Yeah, climbing Everest, he'll probably be the first and the top, the others will follow. I hope the whole chain works. This bill makes it clear that each dollar spent on it is sure to deliver a sum of 100. Back in the future. That's why I'm asking myself why we put, for example... no more money in today's financial system, for we know that everything we put in the children's affairs brings much back in the future. It'll take some time, but the proceeds are so great. I've heard that people have all kinds of problems with their children. They ask why they don't find out why they don't get the service they're about to get. These endless questions, including those of this group, are particularly vulnerable, long - suffering children, and disabled. They need special support. Sadly, they do not need the support they need today. I hope so much and fervently that it'll come soon. That's why I said I wanted it to have been here yesterday, and we'd be off with this a long time ago. But it's good to know it's starting. I really hope that a minister sees some way to let this work very quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u67	A respectable president. We have stressed that capitalism comes into the service of sensitive groups, as I traced earlier. We've been setting up funding for home violence on child protection. We have given 35 million at the Children's House to deal with. Then there's the number, 1717. We are setting up nearly a billion people in leisure strength to children of low income homes this year and the next. We were able to take various measures during the last summer and in the fall to disabled children, such as summer camps and other items that are closely related to these difficult conditions in society, and we really need to continue. But when we get to this project, I think we'll check our system, how can we change our system? Then, of course, we should put funding on trying to lose weight, to reduce the waiting list, etc., which we are doing, but at the same time we must not lose sight of the fact that we have to go into this big system change. It's one of my head patches. That's why we're here with three huge total laws that have been worked on in a large plot. It's because we also believe that when the system change begins to work, energy will be released, because we serve way too much in level three and very little at the first and second levels, and it's enormously expensive. If you take a metaphor to fire the fire, we have not had a lot of smokes, fire extinguishers, or fire extinguishers. In effect, we plan to respond earlier so as to be able to lighten the situation later, and I believe that will also release energy and capital resources, both in state and in rural areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u68	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister of the past, and do like more senators and wish the highest order. A minister is happy to have these matters established, while at the same time commending the minister and his staff for the work. I was fortunate to be part of the Senate Committee that helped with these matters, and therefore I fully understand the amount of work involved. But what I would like to ask is the highest. Ministers of the previous antiquities are essential to child protection. Now it is inevitable, I would like to mean, following the implementation of this legislation, that there will be changes in child protection legislation and there will be a child protection bill that is probably the most reasonable person to be placed in law and accepted at the same time as these legislation will take effect. That's why I want the highest. Ministers to see if we can probably not expect that the bill for the change in child protection will be seen during this session and that the Council can complete that task and be given sufficient time to work together with this case, at least In some ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u69	A respectable president. I want to thank you too. A senator commends him because he is one of the members of the Parliament who have served as a member of the Senate committee, as mentioned earlier, and who has done a very unselfish and good job there. I'd like to agree with what, at the same time. A senator commends members who have been involved in this in one way or another, whether as members of the Ministry, who have been awakened and slept over this project, or staff of rural groups, free partners, institutions. I mention the social directors and all those who work in the social services around the country who have worked in this and have been incredibly rewarding to find the solidarity that has been forming there. That the Child Protective Component and the missing elements: It is reasonable to submit the basics and they will be important. Not only am I referring to the Children's Protection Act, but we will also have to submit a bill on local community services, a diagnostic and counseling center, and there will be other laws under the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health and the subsequent cases of Justice. Change will occur, but there will be most changes in the overall legislation here in progress. They're coming to the spring council this time. We're here to film with the Child Protective TV on the final meters in cooperation with our rural society, hopefully going on either side of Christmas and then be able to enter the council. This includes substantial structural changes that will require concomitant use. You have to change your child - protection system to talk to these new laws. There are truly significant structural changes involved, and I will do my part in trying to get it as soon as possible into the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u70	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. V.E.G. A minister named the local community and the good cooperation that has been in that administrative level in this work and that the much contribution both to the local community business and to the community services of the members of the community had been important to this work. However, the question is: Does Ministers believe that the equipment found in the early projections to meet the costs that will inevitably fall on rural society? And if not, it's the highest. In time, a minister of the ministry is ready to make sure that such donations are available, that he will be supported, and if possible?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. Yes, we have all the funds needed next year to prepare the induction. This will be the case so that the equation fund will have funding that will be used to cover costs due to these legislators, although never more than the cost that actually falls on the members of the rural community, since they are the provider in a very large number of cases. In fact, it will be the mission after the induction period to identify the total cost, since we believe that this will soon bring a measure of benefits to the rural community and the state. As long as 2022 and 2023 are authorized to remain in the General Assembly, there will not be aground on the one standing here, to share in dispensing funds, if it takes more than that. I think that must apply to all those who highlight this matter today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u72	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the history of these three matters. I must say, here are good things, indeed, and very important that we cherish the children of this country. I want to thank you very much. Ministers for that and for the people who won this case. There's been a lot of work to do. There's only been an investment in the costs and rural areas here. I have, especially as a sitting representative of a budget board, a little bit of concern about this cost, especially because the state funds situation is naturally very bad and the debt collection is huge. This year's slope is about 270 billion. and less than 320 billion bucks. next year. These are natural sizes we've never seen before. That is why you fear that such a massive project will be difficult to finance. V.E.G. In his speech, a minister mentioned the cost of induction, the addition of expenses, the cost of many costs. I cut by the highest. A minister named the word an institution three times. When it comes to cost, I feel like I'm calling an alarm. I wanted to ask the highest. Ministers, especially the locals. Today, many rural communities are in extremely poor straits because of the virus epidemic, and it has been reported that as many as 50 billion dollars have been affected. missing their business. Because of the epidemic, government funds are not responding directly to their rural communities, and the bill speaks of uncertainty about the cost of rural society. In view of the fact that we're going to see the decline of an equation fund, I ask the highest. Minister: Is it really possible for him to say that the rural communities will be able to handle this project financially? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u73	A respectable president. The state's situation is certainly bad. But I don't think there's a lot of bills. At least I haven't submitted the bills, which have received as much economic analysis as this one does. This is true not only of economic analysis for the future performed by Björn Brynjólfur Björnsson economicist but also of a deeper analysis of the cost of rural society performed by HaraldurLíndalur Haraldsson's Son at the same time as the basis for economic analysis, sending 500 options to rural society and institutions to obtain each cost. The total cost is calculated for the range of 1,33/42 billion per year in 2022, 2023, and 2024. We have secured all the funds needed for the project in 2021. In the case of an investment that can be made to a pair of people during Kál Kálna's inactivation and the Cheflavík Airport, near the back of the road. A senator, I ask back, who will be it in a new government that will then come into the General Assembly and pull this bill back and not guarantee the funds needed for this project? The reason for the development of this task is the use of rural funds as a sort of ◯Baffer, is that there is no intention of ensuring more money than what falls in the early years. The economic analysis shows that the progress is very fast. Farmers who have been taking similar steps, such as Hafnarfjörður with the bridge and the Eastern model, to speed up their service have just shown that the cost has been falling. Recent statistics also show this about child - welfare services and Phase 3 service. [[The president calls.]] It is old - fashioned economics to think that children cannot be invested, and that results. It produces results, just like concrete and bridges. [[The president calls.]] I just want to ask you back, "Is it so?" A senator proclaiming that he is not going to be able to secure funding for this most profitable investment in Iceland? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u74	Mr. President. Now it's the highest. The natural minister has come to an outback, and there is no need to insist that I am standing in the way of giving money to the project. I wasn't talking about it at all, not at all. I don't think it's done well at the top. A minister when he has discussed good things, and I've already commended him for coming here, so I'm going to stand in the way. It's just not true, chief. Minister, and you should apologize for these comments, nothing like that. Anyway, I just wanted to say that, sitting on a budget board, we're facing a huge debt collection. It's not a good thing to come up with expectations for a good thing - and this is a good thing, I'm not going to reduce it at all - but then, in time, we'll see that we just can't afford to finance it in the way that's worked out. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is there any other area in which those who hear under him can be arranged in order to pay for the matter to be fully authorized to fulfill it? We need to consider that too. You also ask yourself: Is there any of these fine ideas and affairs in this room, contacts, status managers, etc., that can be placed under some other hat, or can you use the workers we already have in the language of children? All of this must be considered within the committee. But I just want to say in the end that I'm on this case, and it's a good thing. That doesn't mean for the highest. Ministers to come in here with claims that are completely ridiculous, that you're blocking this when you're on a budget and you're just asking about the cost. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. I just thought it was time to go over this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u75	A respectable president. If I've ever hurt a man. I'll just apologize to a senator. However, I would like to say that I traced it in my prehistoric speech to a case that had received a deeper economic analysis than just that in which two exogenous experts performed an extremely extensive analysis. We're talking about a system change that's supposed to take four years to infiltrate. The reason the money is put in this way, the thought of the law is that it enters an equation fund, because we are not going to place more money in this than we really are going to enter the case. At the same time, we must be ready to discuss the matter as an investment project because it is truly an investment project. I'd like to encourage you. To examine the economic analyses of the case by both Björn Brynjólfur Björnsson Björnsson and Haraldur Linin Líndalur, a member of the council. They accurately show that investing in this country's youth is enormously profitable. [[The president calls.]] We are not giving financial support in a reasonable way. It may initially take some time to save, and this issue is about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u76	A respectable president. I'd like to start by wishing to the highest. Minister to congratulations on these fine matters. I thank you for sharing in the important work, which involved representing the Independence Party in a transnational Senate Committee that has done the most important work of children. I believe work has the primary objective of changing our culture as to how we care for children. In order to change culture, many people need to walk in the same rhythm and to have the same goals. I think we've come along well with that. This work has made it possible for all the people to talk instead of each working in their own corner and moaning about what they could have done better or how all of this works together. We're starting to talk in solutions, talk things out, and just because it's worked, I think a big win is already won, starting this conversation, getting people to agree to talk and work on mutual suggestions. It is the grand victory that has already been won. The next stage is to introduce part of the action that people have combined through which these three primary sites are visible. It's just a little bit of this job, and I hope it's going well. Tremendous consultations were carried out, as was the case at the highest. A minister in his prehistoric speech, along with many viewpoints, tried to call as many people as possible at work. It went well, I'd say. But now there is some sort of conclusion, a summary of this work, where we want to go. It will be fun to see the reviews, comments, and other comments we get from the basics involved in the council. We hope, then, that we will receive even more viewpoints and further suggestions on how to deal with them. The foundation is what we're looking for, this cultural change we're working on here, this early intervention and prevention. As soon as some flags appear or something is not the best thing to do in the case of children, their youth, and their environment, we will be able to react in a way that gives us an overall view of the situation. It also involves the stratosphere, in order to introduce the preventive, that we see on various panels that have been much discussed in this matter by collecting information and gaining a better perspective on the group of paint, where the shoe squeezes so that the well can be stopped before the child falls into it. In order to have specific preventive measures, we need to have some information available to help prevent exposure or children from entering a very undesirable environment. These stairways are going on, having the first phase of service, and that includes the prevention and early intervention. Then there is the second step that may require some small support and then a third step, but you often feel that all the issues of a child are about it today, but there are treatments and analysis and further intervention. Sadly, many feel that they are primarily responding. Of course, there are a lot of good things to do in preventing and during the first phase. This varies according to schools, communities, and sports communities. This may vary, but we need to reduce the need for children to move from Phase 2 service to a greater degree and to reduce the third degree of service. That's how I think everyone's making money, and it's all about money, but of course it's the kids who make the most, and that's what's the most important thing in this. I'm coming into the budget, and we're going to make the most of it. Ministers have expressed concern about whether this is financed. I have to say, as it is, that's all I'm worried about, that's the small money in all of this. I don't think it should be necessary to discuss it, but we should be much more looking at how the money has been the problem in the system so far, how the capital has been made up of gray areas between rural society and the state. The options, as I said before, have been so many at the third stage, and depending on the type of problem, whether they're the rurals or the state, some of the state's institutions that feel like they're always starving with capital, and it's the same with the rural communities that are supposed to pay. This has often resulted in children who are not to receive the services they are to receive because there is a conflict between the state and the local community over which to pay. The controversy is expressed in the measures to use or how to analyze, since that is what ultimately controls the city. This does not depend on what is best for your child, which is important to you. It is of utmost importance that in this great work, if it is to succeed, the gray areas be eliminated, and the responsibility of what is responsible for is much clearer. There must be consequences if a person is not responsible for what he or she is responsible for, but this need to be clear. We can be careful, though, that we do not create too much systems, so that there will be a conflict about who should be serving. In order to prevent these gray areas, and to help someone have the responsibility, databases are referred to that should flash the information. There, personal protection and confidentiality between professionals and clients need to be taken into account. This has been discussed extensively in the transnational committee, but most likely it will also be in the discussion at the council. At the same time, so - called advocates were assigned to handle the situation and are responsible for the child's having a ministry and that the systems do not start to argue. But in order not to have to deal with this, we need to make sure that our parents and families themselves are the real advocates, the parents are the parents who made the best for the child. They know their child and their circumstances best, so it is extremely important from the beginning and through that point that parents become the real advocates of speech. We need to keep in mind, too, that parents may need help, not always the child who needs the help or assistance, as well as the parents or family, or others in the child's close environment. This is of utmost importance, and it may be the next phase after it's all started, i.e. to determine how we can make sure that there are enough options. We need to ensure that we're accessed, that we don't need a fight with the system to get into the options. It's all very important work to make it all work, and there we need to think of sure access, telecommunication, the best way to cope with all the problems children may face, many. We also need to consider that access to innovation and allow new people to find out, not just relying on the critical systems we already have, and some institutions decided to use and then plan to argue on what is best. What works for one person does not necessarily work for the next one. So we need to ensure their diversity and good access, and to ensure innovation, there must also be some incentive for people who are ambitious about this. It must not be that much work is added to innovation and that it should create resources, but because the system did not invent it itself, it is not welcome into the system. It's one big thing to fit. As I talked about yesterday at the council, I think there's a key to this: a child's financial support. If such a system can be created, these gray areas will be reduced, helping parents to be their advocate. This increases the likelihood that the ministry will be performed earlier, and there is a greater likelihood that people will remain in the first phase. Then people are motivated to create resources, trying to work out solutions to the problems we face, the challenges facing children in a changed world. I think it's a very important thing. Just to make it all together, that's a lot of points. This is a large, large oil vessel that needs to be turned and the highest. A minister is worthy of much commendation for moving on and implementing this work. A major victory is already being won by this discussion and the conversation and the combined interest that people have had to take to this direction. Then we have a technical point to bring it in and follow it along in the prime projections and we'll be happy to deal with it at the moment. A welfare committee and a variety of viewpoints. We also need to make sure that the new course we have entered will be successful and that we must make sure that there are a wide variety of resources in which parents can support their children and be real advocates. That way, I think that we can achieve tremendous success, which leads to healthy and happier generations growing up. It will bring about an enormous amount of money for society, so these acquiesces that were debated here are coming back a lot of times. If we gain more healthy society and more prosperity, the cost of this group will be greatly decreased, and the power and economy will be multiplied by more advanced generations. I look forward to dealing with these important and good things, and I look forward to hearing different viewpoints about how we can do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u77	A respectable president. We're here on three basics for the song, great prime radios, and we are so delighted that they're in with the council; a bill for integrating the services of children, the QA and DG services, and the Children's and Family Office. People always say, "The people first, then all the rest." And in this case, we can just say, "The children first and then we'll take the rest." Of course, we should always put our children and their well - being in first place. It's a huge ambitional bill, and I'm so glad to hear it. When you read through it, you see how amazing coordination needs to be performed. If we catch e.g. Just down to 2. The bill, on an explanation, says in the 3rd, by permission of a president: A child's prosperity: Conditions that provide a child with conditions for achieving physical, psychological, intellectual, moral, and social development and health on his own for the future. This is extremely important, but we know that it will be extremely difficult to integrate and make it work. If you look at the 5th, it says about successful service, by permission of a president: ▪ Any service prescribed by law to be granted by state or rural society and to help promote and/or ensure a successful child. A successful service is from a basic service available to all children and/or parents for further progressive individual services, including education, health care, law enforcement, social services, and child welfare. This tells us that it is necessary to coordinate an enormous number of individuals, committees, and others who have worked in their corners so that these members can work together. And that's kind of great. We realize what conditions exist in society today and have been. The condition of children was not particularly good for Covid, and we know it's gotten worse in the Covid epidemic. This can be seen in the incidence of domestic violence as well as in the number of children who have sought help for the condition they are in. That's why it's so important that we find solutions. Unfortunately, the system has been busy pushing away the solutions, trying to put everyone on hold somehow. I say for my part that it should not take place in our society that we tell a child to wait for a service, no matter what it is. The child should not go on the waiting list. We're supposed to be the progressive and good society that we can grab the children, one, two and three, and make sure they don't have to wait for a service unless they've had to wait a few weeks, within a month. It's so important to grab into things like this right away. We know, and we've seen it. I saw a recent survey showing how things are going, for example. in the case of individuals who are in crime and who spend the night in prison. Much of them got out of juvenile school, has dyslexia, dyslexia, and has been in terrible cases, mobbing, and so on. We see the consequences and also the importance of immediate intervention. Therefore, it is completely incomprehensible that we have a double waiting list for the testing centres that identify ADHD and other psychiatric disorders in children. And as I said here one day, I kind of feel like I'm heading for a three-fold waiting list. It's unacceptable. I hope so much and fervently that just because we have reached the point of discussing such tremendous progressive changes, which I reiterate that I am deeply celebrating, we begin to work right away so that we will see this double list disappear, that it will be just a simple wait list, and then it will disappear too. As we have seen, it is also in the highest range. Minister, this brings back so much to society. But we need to realize that this will especially lead to children in these situations. It is number one, two, and three that the children's circumstances will be the best, and they will receive the services they need as soon as possible. As we know, we are in a situation where we are in a situation where poverty and poverty abound with people in our blessed land, and it is tragic in itself. Among those who live in poverty are children. I say for my part that it takes to watch someone wait with a child in line for food in a freezing debt and a hoisting wind. It's one of the exposés of the situation. That is why it is so necessary for us to dress up and start taking things seriously and to put them in order. I think this is one of the most ambitious steps. I used to like it to climb Everest. It is now an Icelander who will try to climb the fear - inspiring mountain K2 by winter until no one has. I just have to state that as soon as I read this bill, I think it's such an ambition. I encourage ministers, and I sincerely hope that he will be able to integrate all these things and get everyone with him to build up these important issues so that he will have a complete view of all the problems children can face and, as a result, will become caught as soon as necessary. It is one thing that comes up to number 14. Gr., in explanatory comments, showing how much this is. It speaks of a service employer. It says, under the permission of a president: A successful individual, whether a member of a government or a local or a private agency who renders such service by state or rural society, e.g. based on service contract. The service provider includes e.g. Schools, elementary schools, vacation homes, social centers, high school, health care, special health care, police, social services, and child care. It shows how much is in this context that in the matter of the QA and the welfare department, it is permissible in 1 Corinthians. ... withauthority of the President's permission: The Agency will monitor the quality of a service provided on the basis of children's protection, child care and family law, social service legislation, social services contracting, restoration of services to disabled people with long-term needs, fixes the elderly, fixes the state's diagnostic and counselling centre, fixes the services and knowledge centres for blind, impaired vision, and persons with integrated visual and hearing impairment, and adjusts to integrating services for successful children. This shows us black and white how immensely these three bills are and how important it is in itself that we should be at the point of uniting this and putting all these three elements through the council. The bill will go to the welfare committee as it is understood. That's certainly where I'm going to accept it, and I really hope that as many people put in reports and ideas about how best to work on these matters. We also need to realize that, unfortunately, today the contrast is tremendous. Often, when you get the tips that your child does not get the kind of service that you think is self - determination, your system is somehow not ready to handle the problem. Although there is a solution in the system, the system does not communicate. What happens in one place does not talk to the other place. As a result, one child is served on that basis and other things are not. Of course, that's completely annoying. Sadly, this is often seen in the services of the Ministry of Health, Social Services, and the community. If we integrate our ministry, as it were with these initials, we are really on the move. As we have seen, we should not look at our expenses. It can never be considered normal to talk about expenses when talking about the well - being of children. That's not at the expense of coming in. It tells itself to the welfare of the child, as well as to society, that it is only pure and direct for all to make sure that children receive the services they are entitled to. As I have said, and now we have to put our children first and then the rest will come. We're never supposed to put children on hold. It's not supposed to pass away in our country. Children have the right to serve, one, two and three, and that I'll say is 100% their right.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u78	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Department of Social Affairs for this timely bill. I believe that the vast support this issue has is the result of its being born in cross-cutting cooperation and cross - laity. It seems to me that the core of these bills and this work is that our systems speak simply better together. It has not always been the norm in this case, and it may not have been in general administration. I think there will be a great deal of work and a great deal of benefit from changing the image that the system is looking at, disappearing from this sample, and finding ways that the systems, and the system, approach children's issues and issues. I have enjoyed seeing and hearing emphasis. The social and child-friendly minister of this class, that he puts children's affairs in focus with these primary sites, and is particularly impressed with his approach to ensure early support, to find ways to ensure preoperative action, and that we can achieve a proper safety network for children, especially children in sensitive positions. We thus have a wide range of problems with children within the home and within the school system. I agree with that word. A social minister in his advance discussion earlier today that it will directly prove practical to do this. But I still wanted to add the argument that this is a case of the sort that the economic evidence should not be needed. It is simply a task that we as a community are under obligation to do well and lovingly. I believe that by ensuring a strong and good welfare network and a safety network for children, you can deal with when a child is in trouble, suffers, or live in situations that are considered unacceptable, but perhaps even more so that you simply prevent them from doing so. Most of us know that there is a link between childhood trauma and later life experiences, illness, disability, and poverty. That's what I think I can claim from my previous violence job in the home, an neglect case that begins so that child protection is involved in a home, and then there's a situation until the police get involved. It has, for example, been found there. has developed in recent years that when a person is being investigated and prosecuted for domestic violence, he is now considered to be an independent offense, even to a child, even though the child himself was not exposed to physical violence but was merely seen, which shows that we are looking at them in a different way. There is a large ACE study that has been under way since 1995 which provides conclusive evidence of the link between difficult childhood, childhood experiences and childhood trauma, and health problems later in life. That argument seems to me that we are starting a job like this, and it should in itself be an incentive for all of us to take care of children in our personal lives, environment, surrounding areas, and systems. But for this central theme of the bill, that the systems should communicate better, I also understand the matter to be spoken for simple systems, as well as that the systems should be there for people and serve their individual service and thus serve their purpose in order to be there for them, not to be fixed for any kind of practice or practice, not to achieve the purpose and support in their service and cooperation. I would with regard to the matter perhaps especially to the social minister to look to the reality of today's waiting list for quality or analysis that in many cases is so long that they are simply a major part of a child's childhood. A child who is starting school at six years of age and who has been on a waiting list for one or two years after diagnosis has simply been in that position a large part of his life. That's what needs to be changed. Then comes the old theme of the memory of the part here at Congress that one is making a rule, and another is to ensure the order of life, i.e. to ensure adequate funding so that regulations can be carried out and that emphasis becomes something we actually see in practice. That is both a warning and an encouragement to the highest degree. Social Affairs Minister to ensure that a successful work that has clearly been in fermentation for some time will have the option to do so by means of financial means. But I believe it and feel that I mark it on the way a social minister has spoken that he is sincerely behind this bill, and I believe he's going to be the means by which he won't reduce the progress that the bill becomes if it becomes legal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u79	Mr. President. Is it possible to make a success of money? Yes, it is possible to do so because you can assess your well - being, happiness, and community to the full. It's just that way. A little early in this session of the Synod Committee on Children's issues, we called after all our work at the Committee would be paid to be made money because we thus made the table available to someone who thinks it could be from economic criteria and from the state's funds and the benefits it had only for the fine fund. The password in one of the primary sites we're dealing with today, the bill for integrating the services of successful children, is integrated services, and without barriers. Soon after the work was started, all members of the Parliament's Committee met and began to consider their wishes, and I think I know that I am at the highest level. A minister also had a request on his table. Those who came to work also had a request, and all of us were considering this from our special fields because it really doesn't matter where we got into this job. We have been children ourselves, have children, or have known children, or have come to affairs of children in our lives. The Senate Committee had a wide variety of members. There was a person from the school system, from law enforcement, a person who has worked in the justice system, in child protection, in an invalid, a person from the state level, etc., etc. There were very different people who came and wanted to put their weights on the scales of this work. Thus, all of us focused on what we wanted to be better for children. Soon, though, we realized that whatever happened, no matter where we went, was that the system got in the way. There were the thresholds, the system itself. Despite the fact that we had our baby all the time in the foreground, the thresholds were there. The system we have built up, which is man's work, is getting in the way. They talk bad, despite all this great staff that's gone all over the system. That's where the bottlenecks are going to be, and that's why I think this is the most important factor when we're about to develop this produce: Is this integrated service appropriate without barriers? As indicated in Article 1. let those who are responsible under this law observe the welfare and success of children and parents and appreciate their need for service. If those who are monitored as defined in the Law realize that there is a need for service, they should act immediately to ensure early intervention, which is much used today, but it is important that people do not look around in the system for years and that no one even reacts. The bill on integrating services is precisely stated that certain persons are responsible for each step, and this enables them to respond to the needs of children and parents for services, and that they do so effectively as the need arises or starts. And if there is a need for a service, all the rescue laps need to meet at the table and talk together to prevent things that are sadly too often happening now, that the child falls repeatedly between systems and forgotten, or perhaps not forgotten, but that no one knows that the service has fallen down somewhere. Of course, our system is very expensive. That's a lot of money. Of course, it costs even more money when it does not work. That is why it is so important to make sure that this is the only thing, the complex that makes a life - saving cycle around the child and the whole family. In other words, all procedures are being thoroughly explained, explaining who is responsible for the ministry. The responsibility to monitor the ministry is also clearly explained. Today, the Children's Protection Agency is a spiritist party, a creative party with a flow of resources and surveillance. I think we can all agree that it's unfortunate to put all those tasks on the same desk. That's why it's good that we're here to make a children's and family room, whereby we're supposed to render counsel and support to all servants. And then we also have a bill on the Quality and Observation Institute of Health, which is exactly supposed to be a surveillance officer, a watchdog that ensures that adequate services are being performed, is okay and is being taken of the children. It is of great importance, I think, in this bill on integrating services in the interests of successful children, that we have organized the services of children so that services are performed at three levels of service, the first stage of services is the basic service available to all children, which is given individual and early support, which is actually given to the child and to the family, and followed in a consistent manner. During the second stage, individual and targeted measures, according to professional assessment, are performed according to some assessment and/or primary analysis of the child's needs. It speaks of developing a plan to provide this integrated service and a follow - up, keeping track of how it works, and how the systems and resources communicate well. A phase 3 service is performed when a successful child is at risk, where there should be a very specific, thorough assessment and analysis of the status at a time. There will be that full - time ministry. Who's going to take care of this? We're on the bill with a contact from the birth of a baby until it's no longer a child. Now, too, let us bear in mind that we discussed on the committee that we would have to make sure that the age of 18 would not be completely broken. Another thing that was good for all this job is that users were at the table all the time. No doubt, those who will use the ministry - young ones, parents, or adults who used the ministry as children were at some point. All that information was searched, it wasn't just the system that came up with this case. Also, there was a very big conversation with users, and that's very important. But the contacts are, I think, also, key to the fact that all children and all parents should have access to contact in the ministry as necessary. During the first six years, the contact is a health care professional in the district as well as if integration is needed during pregnancy, and is very good. As soon as the child is in the middle, shallow, or high school, the contact has become an employee of the school where the child is studying. Some children do not go to school, do not study, and if so, the contact should be an employee of the local community where the child has a legal home. Whatever happens, if e.g. is broken, if there is much intervening, there is always someone who should be assured that someone will receive, to make sure that a new contact is provided with the necessary information to capture the child so that he will never fall into service, care, or monitoring the child's success. The roles of the contact contacts are precisely defined as who they are, who are so advocates in the case of some kind of child - and - family service that they need and what their roles are, and then a supportive team and a plan. I hope this case has a course. That's very important. But I only want to come to the end, because there is not much left, to come back to what I said at the beginning of my speech, whether it is possible to make a success of money. In this work, economist Björn Brynjólfur Björnsson, who had a lot of thought about it and it is quite clear that childhood trauma and its consequences are the most widely used methodology to assess success of children and if not taken in early periods of childhood trauma, the estimated cost of society by it, by society, by government, by children who suffer difficulties can be estimated. There are both local and foreign studies that have estimated the cost of childhood trauma having a negative impact on the biological development of children, when childhood traumas, social and emotional children, when childhood traumas have harmful effects on the health and behaviour of children, and then on the health of the child leading to disease, disability and social problems, and, if worst, an early death. It is all things that can really be attributed to childhood trauma, and we know that all of these are socially expensive. Apart from the cost of individuality, it is expensive to the whole community, so that the benefits of having these matters pass through the council and become a reality are very great. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u80	V.E.G. President. It's been very interesting to observe this afternoon's discussion. I'm going to go through the first bill, if we can put it that way. It's all put together in one study, i.e. bill on integrating services in the interest of successful children, child-and-house bill, and the quality and surveillance centre bill. When I was studying these matters, I noticed that the QA and the welfare department have been operating within the Ministry for two years. There you can find a fine Web site on this project. I saw ten people working for that institution, there's one man, so you put up your glasses. It is absolutely time to do this work, and I certainly agree with it. I think it's a good idea that we're going to respond as soon as possible, i.e. with what is called the first phase of service and the second degree of service, the most important of which are these matters. It reminds me a little of our health care and the problem we face there, that the loss seems to be what we define as a Phase 3 service. That's also the case, we know of all the waiting lists that are available to all institutions, diagnostic institutions, development and behavioral stations, BUGL and stuff like that. This reminds me that there are waiting lists in all larger procedures within the medical system. The task of a children's and family room is so thought, as I understand it, that the Children's Protection Agency will be divided, on the one hand, the Children's Institute for Children's Health and Family, and then a QA and the Three Children's Health Services will be assigned to the Children's House. There's something good going over the whole party. It is really good for you to see how you work at this job. What's admirable, I'd like to say, is that procedures are very clear. When I said that, I wondered, " Can't this process be activated immediately? ' It may well be that it is the thought that even though most of the technical factors have been discussed here, the so - called dashboard to work, which is certainly also needed. However, because I feel that this is a good job, I feel that it is not possible to make immediate use of these procedures. For a detailed discussion, see paragraph 15. the bill for evidence that the needs of children are missing. It is, I think, in a sense, the point of the matter, thus alleged that if someone fails to report something that might be incorrect or lacking in the case, it can be taken further. That's really good. Here is an explanation for the process, and especially for the well - chosen process. What we need to learn to use is a term for speech. We know this from our neighboring countries, where the speakers of the individual or people speak, even though they are old. This applies not just to children, but only if someone needs some kind of service, so it's very good. It is a question of whether it will be additional services or it will be possible to continue using those already within the system, so to speak, whether this is a new job or what. Education has been discussed with the speaker, the type of education they should have. There are two views, i.e. whether it is narrowly defined that education should be of particular concern or whether it should be tried considerably open in the sense that we are not only caught in medical definitions but are guided by social vision. I like this bill a little bit because I think it's the social governance. Although there is indeed a medical vision, if we can say so, dominant in the early years of a child, social vision also takes place, for it is also of great importance regarding child development. The report first discusses the emphasis on increased cooperation and coordination of governments, State, and rural society. This is vital in how we can meet our children and their families. It was earlier that it was important to include family members in the discussion. I agree with that viewpoint, families, and parents are usually experts in their children's affairs, and I appreciate what they need. I think we've all heard stories about parents who've gone between systems and parties trying to get help and just come to the door, so hopefully this is going to be good for it. There is talk of a good frame in regard to the purpose of the procedure, the rapid failure to react quickly and sooner if certain circumstances arise or when a child faces problems. Here again, the overall vision and cooperation of key tools that are good and to get a complete picture of this service. Like I said, the lists are on like... A development and behavioral and diagnostic and counseling post and we know of waiting lists for speech pathologists and etc. So it is a question of whether we need to start earlier by applying processes aimed at turning people into this first and second phase of the service in hopes that we can and bite on these lists, or we will have to wait so long for the whole process to work. What is left is a particular question as to whether we can use the current staff to the event, as we evaluate the effect of this bill, it is said that some 19,000 children are needed at any given time for services, contacts, and advocates. That's quite a lot of people. According to this, it would require a value of 7◯45. It's gonna cost you money. It shows that 80% of the cost is dropped by rural areas. I heard the highest. Minister here is talking about funding coming through the equation fund. But now we are faced with a certain amount of income, so to speak, in a revenue that builds up the balance fund. Will that not affect the money we want to spend on this assignment? I agree that it's important to try to get us together on this goal, but I'm still worried it's a bit of a bite. Then there's another part of this we've heard about, i.e. lack of professionals to care for these responsibilities. Sometimes it is said that failure to be a professional is a fundamental reason why we have a waiting list, not that so many children need help, but that we lack professional help. I hope we on the welfare committee that will continue with this matter will help us get all the information we can get. I know they're in the way. We need, for example. to carefully examine the calculation of the prosperity and what was discussed earlier in connection with additional government spending. Besides, I'd like to say that there's not really a whole bridge of complaining about the lack of money in the case of children, I think we're now most of the people in agreement, but, unfortunately, real life is often another. So if I make this up, it's a question of whether we can get the job started right away, if we already have the employees we need to make things work out, whether the systems are talking to each other, so I'm just thinking out loud. Then, naturally, it is important that we succeed in implementing the early support we have been given. I didn't go any further, but I restate that I hope that we can go well and thoroughly into these three things on the welfare committee and expect us to do some good work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u81	A respectable president. We'll discuss three issues all about changing to the benefit of children. Case presented by the highest degree. Minister of Social Affairs, Ásmundur the Einar Daðason. These are prime reports of integrating services for the benefit of children, the family and Children's House bill, and the welfare and observation bill. I support these issues wholeheartedly and have high expectations for changes that will follow their approval. I have had the opportunity to participate in preparatory work with these matters, so I know the situation quite well. Now we have come to the important work step in making changes in the interests of children, where these three issues are submitted to the General Assembly for discussion. It's very important that we get to the end of the 1st. This is in the autumn Summit, for this allows a health committee a good time to review the issues and reviews that we can expect to spread in many places. I am grateful that I had been assigned to lead a Parapolitic Parliamentary Committee on Children's issues, including the U.S. Work on the bill preparation. I'd like to use this opportunity here to thank you for your cooperation in the huge cooperation of children's affairs. Thank you for your cooperation with all of us as one. It is most recently reported that the partnership at a Senate Committee in preparing the bill was a very good, high ambition for the subject, a clear view of the need for change and cooperation on the results. The members of the Senate committee come from many parts of the country with all kinds of education and experience and have experienced many experiences in life and in the work that were truly useful in this work. Like what? paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir went over just now, this background became useful to find a common surface on the subject. All the cables at work have been linked by a team that has kept up with the work at the Department of Social Affairs, has moved on to work, and has been fully cooperating with the European Union. An amazing number of people have also taken time to share their knowledge and experience with the project, such as the highest. The minister found himself in his background speech. I'd like to reiterate how important it is to have an Icelandic partner at work from the beginning because as has also been shown during the discussion, there is a very large part of the service to children, and just this early service, worked at the local community. One of the things that promoted so much belief in integration, and somehow I saw how it became real, and the effect of future changes, was when a Senate committee was meeting with the council of the conferences in the affairs of children. It made it clear how cooperation across the network opens up a new window and provides new solutions for long-term subjects. It involves cooperation at the top of the administrative board, which requires that all partners be created in the system and, of course, even more important to those who serve their children directly from day to day. But here we have the first three prosthesis on integrating services for successful children, the legal environment to provide children and their partners with early and integrated support when children need it. I'd like to highlight some of the emphasis laid out by the Senate committee and then be put to work on the prime. I view it as the role of the Generals to examine these priorities, to evaluate whether they are worthwhile for success, and to see if the text of the bill covers the emphasis proposed by the Senate committee. Much of what they are being explained by the projections is made up of the primary projections. This assignment belongs to a welfare committee, and I look forward to observing how it will work. I don't belong on that committee, so I won't be directly involved in the project. Among the things that the committee specifically stressed in their jobs was to watch a collective service throughout the child's life course, from pregnancy to adulthood, in order to ensure responsibility for the voluntary government to act at all levels where there is a need and at the same time to validate the obligation laid down in the bill on the cooperation of those who serve children. To achieve these goals, this legal environment is being constructed aimed at early support to prevent and/or reduce the need for delayed intervention in children's lives. That is why the Committee put this project first, the home line on integrating services, and then related prime messages about administration or government. They were given priority to the Commission because the committee felt that changes in the development of government welfare administration would be undertaken to support and supervise the use of integrated services. There have been repeated reports of defects in the current administration procedures in child care and paediatric services, including of the Management Board in 2015, and before this work began, proposals from previous work were available by the Ministry of Social Affairs. Among the findings, there was a need to strengthen the monitoring of the quality of welfare services. When preparing issues, the Committee examined localities in the media, and there is a summary of the research services of the General for the Management Board of Children in Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Scotland. That summary could be the latest welfare committee for its work. The northern countries have a common sense of emphasis on the importance of the cooperation of those who provide services for the benefit of children. It generally involves cooperation in various laws on individual services, but in many places the need for more overall vision has been pointed out. However, during the deportation of the matter, it was decided to look mainly to Scotland, but since 2006 the Scottish government has been working on the establishment of a unique overall policy in the affairs of children and young people called, by permission of presidents, has been able to make it right for everry children. It emphasizes that the interests of a child are always ahead of time, taking into account the United Nations Convention on Child Rights in All Approach. The objective is to give children and their families early support and appropriate assistance when needed. How important it is to promote the active cooperation of all the parties that play a role in the child's life! The approach has generally proved to be a good experience. However, there have been some challenges and criticisms regarding the implementation of policy issues, including the following: The exchange of information, however, has been sought to take into account this challenge and to adapt the Scottish way of Iceland. Much of the material has been traced here, so I don't think I'll go through it all again, but I'd like to come back for a little bit at the expense. The Commission stressed that the management of the financial impact of the bill on state and rural society and the evaluation of economic benefits of long - term change would be done. The committee is aware that one of the greatest challenges to the induction is possible differences in the costs of administrative, services, or individual institutions. It is therefore imperative that at the time of the legislation and the induction of change, there will always be ways to explain the cost change and prevent such differences. So I am very pleased with the careful cost analysis done, have been introduced, and available, and am making clear a financial advantage of this approach in the service of children. The work of changing to the children will bring back more elements to the council, the foundation for coverage and payment. Children's protection laws are under way and then some kind of communal change that results from these three primary causes. But then, as discussed in the discussion, and following the legal approval of such changes, an important process follows. That process is about changing culture. This requires a continuing education in which all who work with children wherever they are in public service will have the opportunity to understand and understand the thought behind the integration and opportunity to understand the overall picture in the ministry. The change in culture must include that it is not a coincidence that determines the support of children and families. The change in culture also includes the fact that all children working with them receive education and training in integrating support and that they always see the role of working together to support children and families. A culture needs to be changed so that children and families know that professional assistance is self - determination and that it is available to all. No matter how good the backlands do have, whether a child shows high - risk behavior or not in difficult circumstances, they need to have access to appropriate professional support. In this way you can develop perseverance and increase the likelihood of a successful life - style in the face of tragedy, since most people do not get through life without trauma. It takes more than a village to raise a child, a professional, and a responsible community. One team. Nothing will change with this approach, but the village built. I look forward to hearing from the welfare committee's work on the subject, and I wish the committee good luck at work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u82	A respectable president. It takes a whole village to raise a child. Most parents know this. But the village also needs to be able to accept. The village needs the infrastructure to help, but it is no less beneficial for those insides to work with one another, to play together, to play together. It is old and new that the systems that belong to us and are created by us do not work with us or even against us. The prime products take big and radical steps to connect and improve the infrastructure that has already been used by the Icelandic community. This is a big change in the interests of children. It involves two new institutions and a board. By permission of the president, a summary is presented: ▪ In the primary projections, two new institutions will be proposed with a high priority on the service of children and their families. A uniform standard of service will be used to ensure continuous child service. Thus, the main theme of the bill is the harmony of rules and integration of activities involved in children and children and families. It's a big, big improvement. As a result of these changes, quality control will also be enhanced. V.E.G. The social and child - care minister has said about the successful bill presented here that the child is the center and is confirmed by reading the bill. The core of this work is to protect children's well - being and work together in unity. President. I've associated myself with some important parties working with this group and with various paediatric issues, including Mental health. The re - administration has been unanimously positive to these bills. Finally, it's a word I think most of the time happened. It tells us that this is a long time. In an article in the index, Sæunn Kjartansdóttir's daughter said that this was a baby - fraught revolution and that she looked forward to working under the merits of a child's success. A respectable president. Childhood lasts centuries. It says in an interesting title of a Norwegian book that deals with child - health issues. This book is mostly about potatoes in families and how often it is that a pattern of unhealthy communication in families is inherited from generation to generation if nothing is done. Often, only a small amount of intervention is needed to correct problems and break such vicious circles, and it is important to do so. Often, that's all it takes. Often, so little is needed to avoid something that is headed for an issue. As far as I can see, these bills contribute greatly to improving our community in that regard. Childhood trauma is one of the most accurate predictors for the future of children. The ESA will show us. It is inconsistencies to the fact that early intervention in children's lives is one of the most important preventions and precursors for their future, for life, for their well - being, and for their quality of life on the road of life. There is a link between child's troubles and difficulties in adulthood, as we have seen here tonight in the matter of many woes. Councilmen and also of the highest order. Minister. It is important to think about this, in the long run, and to attack action with long - term thoughts. It is important to understand the causal relationship in this way. However, it is also important to sit back for a little while now and remember that many children are uncomfortable right now. There are children who are suffering now and who are trapped in real distress. These children need help already. It leads me to the debate on the wait list and the importance of shortening them. However, we have discussed the importance of a short wait list several times here at the council Hall. A minister introduces it in his introduction that a system straggler may play a major role in shortening a waiting list. I hope that this will be the case and that the case will be conducted here within the council and out in the community, making these frequent and dangerous lists slow down and that the children who are in distress now will be restored to their sickness as soon as possible. V.E.G. A minister introduced the interest of the investment. I agree with that view. I really don't have to question it in any way or in any way. As a minister entered, this has been calculated by economists and inserted into an excel document that many people always want to see in the context of things that you themselves often find obvious. Clearly, if we pursue this work for the future and for the good of children, we will reap, they will reap, and society will reap what they sow. Similarly, I found joy in hearing a minister say that this was not the last step but the first step into the future where the welfare and interests of children will take priority. We are to build a society where the center is the child, where we put the money where our words are and take real action where the child is allowed to thrive and is born into a society that celebrates his existence, supports, and can catch it when the surrounding environment may find it difficult to do so. I look forward to seeing the results of that change in the future. I'd like to quote an article by Gunnlaug Guingalges Thorlacius, social worker, family scholar and president of Iceland's Mental Health Association, by permission of Presidents: A report on the policies and actions of the Icelandic government on mental health care since 2016 shows that measures that support parents in training and caring have a broadly positive impact on society and that may result in successful schooling and less loss, a lower crime rate and better economic and employment status. Prevention is aimed at reducing the financial cost of society. In neighboring lands, efforts have been made to nurture children living under difficult circumstances who build a basic service with regard to these factors. Paying attention to family members is emphasized, and they are being well versed in their circumstances. It has been shown that a powerful service in which there is loyalty to the arrival and cooperation of all professions can save much money in the future. Considering environmental factors affecting mental and physical health, it is obvious that the earlier we intervene and provide appropriate assistance, the lower the risk of serious consequences. As parents improve their health, reduce social problems, poverty, and provide family support under circumstances, the well - being of children can help to reduce the risk of tragedy. This must be considered positive and sensible, especially when considering the high cost to society to accept the consequences of such trauma is not serious. President. I want to say something. paritaprevir The son of Vilhjálmur the Árnason in a speech earlier this evening that the first victory in this project was that men met, that different political axes could objectively bring their horses together and go on a journey that led to the success of these bills. That political stand must continue in this work. Children's lawsuits must never become political bitebones and changers. Similarly, I was delighted to represent the head of the head of the Ministry of Economics who seemed to see the importance of this investment and correctly stated that it was a coin in the large context. I hope so. A senator maintains their viewpoints in his field. This bill will go to the welfare committee, where I sit in absence. paritaprevir It's Halldóra Mogensen who's been sitting at the table at this job. I can't wait to find my way into the work ahead of these bills, and I'm glad they're there. Change is radical. It's a vision project that you might have dreamed of, but you didn't believe that it would ever happen. It is often this way in politics that big and beautiful dreams die because of political thistles and a sample of details that matter much less. But now, in the past 24 hours, we have seen two very grand ideal projects being arranged in the Assembly Hall. I hope it has some prophetic value on what should come. But the term "oppressive " also has a tendency to become reality. We've seen it through human rights struggles and we're seeing, a respectable president, a real human rights struggle, that children's human rights are put in first place, in absolute priority, as, of course, to be done. I wish to the highest. The minister is truly happy about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u83	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech on this matter. I asked for an answer just to talk about these matters. I thought it was a speech. A senator and an understanding of the importance of early intervention. Hv. At the end of his talk, a senator came in to see what had happened. A senator she relieves of, Halldóra Mogensen, now in a maternity clinic, came to this very job and did it with great integrity, from the very first day. We've cooked silver together in various matters, both when she was president of the welfare committee and in other matters, but in this matter, she worked. A senator of full integrity and with great force. I thought it would be right for me to appear at a council hall because she's not here today, but as mentioned earlier. A senator to relieve her while she is on maternity leave.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u84	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of society and child care very much for this greeting to see what it's about. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen and I'll give myself that she'll be glad to see her and hear if she's not even watching now. I'm just saying that we're kind of some sort of idealist person in these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u85	Mr. President. You can say that we are at a critical milestone today, and it's a real joy to know that the three prime radios we're discussing, a bill of integration for the benefit of children, a family bill, and a matter of well-being, are being discussed. As we have seen earlier today, during the election period, the Senate Committee has been able to monitor the case and suggest changes and cooperate with the Ministry's staff to complete these three prime signals. There is good reason to commend the highest. Ministers and his staff at the Ministry for the work done here, as well as thanking all the hundreds of people in the community who have contributed either to special government work groups or to all kinds of consultations and direct conversations and information input into the Ministry. This is really important and convinces a person in what several other members of the United States's former U.S. Secretary of State have introduced, and what it enters in a well - known book, entitled Hillary a Clinton, by permission of a president, that all society has to bring about to a child's upbringing. In the same way, society has to come to the bill and has really made it a part of the community. It may be said that most of the quality of the product may explain how many good hands have helped. The primary projections suggest integrating services with children and, in effect, integrating rural and other partners involved in working with successful children. It is not such a small project, and it is actually being faced with the reality I mentioned earlier, that it is not enough for one part of the welfare system or one part of the community service or one part of the State to do that if he does not know what the other factors or hands do about it. This need to be a powerful talk because, as has been repeated today, it is vital that working with children be viewed for their interests. Children cannot benefit from working toward their own interests. That's absolutely basic. In III. section of the bill on integrating services to the benefit of successful children has come to be a step - up in the service of children. This is a very important new note because it is actually making a decision that we all have a real role to seize our children and, in effect, take the opportunity to support families right away at the first stage in order to try with every means to avoid the need for service to the next level, where it is not only more efficient for the children but also more expensive for the communities in which they live. In the early projections, it is required that what has happened today be called two new institutions serving children. Of course, it is not that we are creating something that can be called ◯ new institutions. We're actually killing a Child Welfare clinic under a Children's and Family lab, giving it a more important job, more outdoor work, and, of course, there's gonna be one institution that will still be doing it. Similarly, the Quality and Health Organization, which is then a new institution, is, in effect, becoming an independent unit outside the Ministry where it has been submitted to this. Some people who are listening to my case might think that now we're still on our way to the establishment system of the state and that's not really the case. Here, mainly the process of working out and making sure that the best way to serve children is to improve. The figures here have been discussed as to the share of this community and, fortunately, the rural and rural communities have been greatly involved in these matters. This is of utmost importance because, in the end, it is the natural communities that are primarily involved with children, and that is why the first phase of service may be largely largely there. That's why it's so important, like I took the highest. Ministers left in opposition to the above, that it is assumed and thought of the resulting cost, including on the unit control level, and then through the equation fund like the highest. Minister mentioned earlier. This is important because it must be ensured that we do this not only on terms of the State but also on the basis of all the characters and players that will come to the work. That's extremely important. Mr. President. I'd like to mention the child protection again. V.E.G. A minister also mentioned in the antiquated statement that it will need a review and that the bill will establish a review of child protection. In effect, with the contributions of these bills, children's protection laws need to be reviewed, several things are of particular importance. In order to form the best possible effort to ensure that child protection is across rural areas, that larger units are collected than today, and that child protection is first and last on professional grounds, and not being involved in some political committee. Of course, social security and social security committees of the local community will need to agree and stamp, as is called, the decisions that may be taken into child protection, but this is not to be so that political elected representatives may be transmitted through local children's cases. There's a job to be a professional, and I have some assurance that there is a willingness, both within the council and in the council, to try to approach the project in that way. In this case, especially in the child welfare work, I also need a great deal of cooperation between rural partners, and I don't talk about children moving between partners. This should ensure that the work being done at the scene of one community will continue in the next so that its success can be guaranteed. I realize, Mr. President, that the work that is going to be done at night. The welfare committee on these matters will become quite a few. It is good, though, for the committee to have a picnic that also serves at the Children's Committee, which worked with these advanced bills, and I hope that the work of the Committee can be successful. I look forward to that work, and I look forward to it when it comes to the spring council, and we finish these matters and take a huge step toward improving the services of Icelandic children and securing their success.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u86	A respectable president. I recommend more of that committee party. The Foreign Affairs Commission on bill to legalize the legislation on Iceland's foreign service. This has been called the ambassador's bill, but the U.S. foreign service legislation is no. 39/1971. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Anna Jóhannsdóttir and Jóhanna Bryndís Bjarnadóttir from the Ministry of State, Steinar Örn Steinarsson from the Society of the Scientific Committee and Friðrik Jónsson, Þórður Óskarsson and Sólrún Svandal Sólvegura from the National Institutes. The committee received reviews from the university personnel of the Council of Human Rights, the Advisory Council of Foreign Services and Ambassador Stefán Skjaldarson. The bill was previously submitted to the 150th legislator Council (716th case) where a majority of the committees proposed a chemical modification (tj. 1802) taken into account. In addition, the criteria for the number of ambassadors appointed to the foreign service without any local decision in category 1 have been changed and will be no more than a number of emissaries. The majority rejoice that they took into account the recommendations made by more of the committee during the last legislation. First of all, there is the fact that the ambassadors who will be temporarily appointed without advertising have a university education and experience in international and foreign affairs, or special experience that will be used for office. Second, it is permitted to call the ambassadors who are temporarily assigned to their home within the time of the order. Third, it is now mandatory to appoint an qualifications committee that will become a minister to advise on the ability and the general qualifications of potential ambassadors. During the treatment of the 150th legislation panel, the work of the so - called Qualification Committees was thoroughly discussed. The majority of these committees feel that it is not the responsibility of such committees to suggest a choice but to discuss objectively on the qualifications and general qualifications of those who are being made on the basis of the qualifications proposed and provide counsellors there. In the case of the case, it was stated that the U.S. commissioner viewed the function of the committees, their orders, and their role as properly considered. In addition, the majority believe that a positive change has been made that the number of ambassadors who are appointed in the foreign service without a regional decision in Class 1 will be no more than the number of e - mail office at any one time. Ministers' sources to the order of ambassadors are thus clear and limited. A greater proportion also feel that in a bill report, the term "supervisor" is not used as a translation of the English term ◯career dipkomat sheep, which refers to a representative of the foreign service that is progressive for a ambassador's position. In the panel of more part on the bill at the last legislature, this translation was considered inappropriate and failed to cause misunderstandings. In view of all of these, the greater part of the work of reforming has been done by the changes made on the bill from its contribution at the last legislation. The majority still feel that it is time to re-examine Iceland's foreign service law, no. 39/1971. In view of the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the slight changes presented in the Committee opinion. Under this view, the one quoted here is writing, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, and why. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen, chairman of the Committee, Njáll Trausti Friðbertsson, Resa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Bjornfjordsdótttir, Silja Dögg Dög Gunnarsdóttir and Ari Trausti Guðmundsson. A respectable president. I've covered this committee opinion, which may not be very long. The bill is clear in my mind, and we have taken considerable time to review it here at the council. I'll think about it. A business committee has done a professional and well over the matter, received a number of reports, and discussed this. The basis for this is so that today there is no limit to what is highest. A foreign minister can appoint many ambassadors, each one or in what way. The bill simply goes on to put your arms around that particular frame, so that the ambassadors in general are not significantly more than the emissaries that have been decided to have a minister by the order of the President of Iceland and then agree with the General Assembly Department of State. I view this as a very good matter, and we say in fact, in the opinion of the committee, that we still recommend that we reevaluate these laws that have only come to our own age. It should be noted that we had a considerable discussion at the Committee, and many of the managers pointed it out, and I'm going to say that it didn't have, so I remember, that there are other aspects of the law that need needed changes but that the law has been more discussed in its years and therefore there is a reason to review them altogether. It is well accepted in a paper with the bill that a total review of the law was one of the projects specified in a report published by the Foreign Minister on key foreign reforms, a report of reforms, policy and the economics of foreign service. We encourage the work to continue but suggest that this bill be agreed with the slight changes proposed in the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u87	Mr. President. I've come here to recommend the Committee on Committee 1. It's my part of the State Department. That's what he's signing. paritaprevir It's a Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. The bill was previously proposed to a Council of 150, but it was not granted. At that time, there were many comments, as well as those that the committee brought to him visitors mentioned in the majority opinion, making good use of them to the work. There were many comments, and some strong criticism was observed both in the reviews and in the visitors of the Committee. As a result, the majority of the committee made significant changes. They have made their way into the bill that now lies before this council, and they have every reason to rejoice as they were for considerable improvement. They are three-way, subject first to the fact that ambassadors who will be temporarily appointed without advertising have a university education and experience in international, foreign, or special experience that will be used for office. Second, it allows the bill minister to call temporary ambassadors to their home for other jobs within their time of command. Third, there is a requirement to appoint an qualifications committee to be a minister to advise on the ability and generally appropriate ambassadors, but of course, that a minister should make his final decision. Despite some positive changes from the previous bill, and while the 1, smaller things are on many of the main objectives of the current one, there are still too many things that remain to be considered complete. However, it is worth noting that the matter has been received in the committee and the chairman of the committees have called in visitors and clients for the wait, so it is not being reported. Yet, we face huge international challenges due to poverty, war, disaster, and a pandemic, and a god knows what will happen next. In addition, we are in the midst of a digital technology revolution in which neither county nor border boundaries are as useful as they have once been. Furthermore, we live in an international week and face a new world scene that is completely different from the law on foreign service, for example. when they were put back. It's my opinion, and ours, that this is the only way you can deal with it, with much international cooperation. Hence, we need a good and efficient foreign service and a growing need. Foreign services need to be in charge of defenses, climate agreements, development, northern events, resource issues, and all the many international commitments and challenges that the future may place on us. The work and nature of the foreign service have also changed dramatically in recent decades and will eventually make great changes. A changed world includes a challenge but also an opportunity for a small nation like Iceland. Hence, intelligence, experience, and knowledge and workers in foreign service are important and are very important when changing laws about them. It is of great importance that foreign service is at any given time superior, but at the same time it is flexible enough to cope with this new situation. It is therefore a great pleasure to see that the order of foreign officials is considered at the minister's office because it is necessary to ensure equality, transparency, and professionalism in the recruitment process so that a successful setting can be made around human foreign services and to build a solid and well - playing team. Of course, there is also the need to increase the equality of the sexes, and it has been referred to by a minister as one of the goals. I think it is also necessary to increase the number of opportunities for young people with new knowledge and a view of foreign affairs to make it wider. That is why it is long time for a total review of the law of No. 39/1971 on foreign services. Indeed, it is peculiar, although made up of progressive paces in the bill, to legalize a given number of ambassadors before it has been completed. The bill suggests that the maximum number of appointed ambassadors without any local decision will never be more than a number of emissaries. A smaller portion does not take sides with the desired number of ambassadors at any given time, yet it is unfortunate that these changes are not clearly supported. A small number of foreign - service staff performs considerable variety and challenges in ever more complex realities, as has been achieved here on a global scale. Thus, it is quite difficult to see the benefits of such a course, such as. to reduce the number of emissaries, as reported in the case of Ministers, especially without a full review and review of Iceland's foreign service. The first minor items are positive for the Minister's permission to appoint an individual temporarily without advertisements, although there are grammatical limits where there were none before. However, there is no evidence that a minister could proceed with the fifth ambassador in this way to five years. This is not given objective reasons for the number or time that a minister can appoint an ambassador. Surely, it would be possible with a small amount of continued work, and with this full reexamination of foreign service laws, it would surely be done. The work and goals would be better addressed in larger contexts and by more extensive consultations. We could certainly learn that from other nations, e.g. In other parts of the North countries that have responded to the global environment and a new system of things in a more purposeful way than we have now prospered. So I would like to finally ask if the bill is at the wrong end and if the bill is over my head and ready for payment before such an overall review is launched.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u88	V.E.G. President. When I read a committee opinion 1, I wondered, " What is this 1, my part speaking? I'm no closer. I'm no closer to where he's going after the story of a whale. paritaprevir Logi, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Einarsson. It speaks of positive changes from the previous bill. However, while parts of 1 memory agree with its primary objectives, there is still too much to be considered complete. I'm no closer to what's going on. Well, maybe. A senator might have informed me of that? Or it was considered to be an agreement that, such as the EU, without mention of it, the disaster, the equality of the sexes, etc.? Since the bill is an improvement, is it not possible to be on a committee program with the majority of its parts? There are no other suggestions in this, except for an overall review. Isn't this just better than already? Is that not something you can accept and agree to? Then we'll go to a full review later. Is that why there is a barrier? Or what is it about?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u89	President. I'm not surprised by what I'm saying. For the last few weeks, a senator may not always feel that he is aware of why people are expressing themselves. Here we consider that there is no evidence to explain why a minister feels that it is necessary to place in some way a number of ambassadors in certain points. There is no evidence to explain why temporary recruitment by Ministers is a fifth of the total and why they are five years old. The 2017 report specifically speaks of the time when such things are too fixed until total effort has been made. V.E.G. In the 2017 report, a minister is not consistent with himself and then with the bill he presents here. While there is no contradiction in having a positive view of various factors in the bill, there is still no contradiction in saying that the end is wrong. It may well be that an overall review of the law would produce, e.g. This means that there would be a difference in ideas about the number or duration of recruitment. I don't know what's peculiar about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u90	Mr. President. There is a large folder named Foreign Service for the future. All these viewpoints and all these evidences, of course, exist there. I'm just letting it piss me off, when we have a bill like that. The senators evidently consider improvement, that they are creating some minor opinion that doesn't tell me anything, not what they think, how many or what time these ambassadors are supposed to be. I'm no closer to anything my 1st thing is saying. It's some kind of magazine, empty blade. All of these data exist exactly, an entire foreign service directory, which, of course, is a remarkable document. When you look at such minorities, you think, " What's the point? Is that just to come up with some vague ideas? This is a lot of news; international cooperation, poverty and war, etc. So you ask: Why aren't these fine senators just in the majority opinion and then in advance explaining these points when discussing the matter as we do today?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u91	Mr. President. I think that would be more correct for that. A senator would look at himself and ask himself why he is on different opinions and why he is at the head of a vote with the government when he makes one act after another and speaks against it. [[The point is: He often asks himself that question.]] Yeah. We don't get the answer here, and I don't really think anything peculiar about it. A senator doesn't understand what we mean. I don't take it personally. However, the publication Foreign Service for the Future has some comments on the order in which things are best done to make foreign service the most efficient and flexible. In case of a moment. A senator would now read his report in front of him, but not only look at his coat would he see on several pages, 39, 88, 89 and more, see that it is correct to see that it is in almost all comments, both when the case first appeared and when the case came up again during this council, that the people feel that it is right to start a total examination of the law before each of the factors like this one.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u92	V.E.G. President. It has come to the end of this case, which is called the ambassador's case, as we have seen. It's mostly about putting roofs on the number of ambassadors in Iceland's foreign service. Though I object to this matter, and will come in more afterwards, I must commend the committee for having fixed it. That doesn't necessarily do it good enough for me to agree, and that's why I've put this committee's opinion together and I'm just going over it. As soon as this case came to my attention, I felt it was rather work, and I feel that it is missing the quality stamp on most of the things that come from the Ministry of State. Of course, there was evidence that the matter had more and less been won elsewhere, but it has come in here. I'm pointing out in the committee's opinion that I don't think it's necessary. I don't think it's necessary to put a roof on a number of ambassadors. There may be two reasons why. In general these commands have been handled very carefully, perhaps one case of which you might say something else. Second, and there is a fundamental difference between my opinion and the performers of this case, I think that by placing a roof on the number of ambassadors, it is being limited and reduced the flexibility of foreign service. Now the law is to have a set number of 36 - I wonder if the ambassadors aren't today, something like that, maybe 41, I don't exactly remember that number -- and getting that number, 36, into the law reduces flexibility and we might have to order an ambassador on a particular mission or on certain lawsuits, etc. I'm familiar with the attitude expressed in the bill. You've heard too many ambassadors before, too many emissaries, etc. But I completely disagree with that approach, so I disagree that the matter will go through the way it is laid. They've put a reservation on it, and maybe it needs to be explained more clearly why this is the one that's all about, why there are five ministers who can order without advertising -- why not three or six? - and also why this title can be lent five times, in five agents. Perhaps it would have been good to explain this further. You see, I think the masses should reflect the work being done. It may well be that you look at things this way, and it's just fine, there's nothing to criticize, that the project will be no more, that there won't be more than 36 ambassadors. It may be possible that people have found out, but I feel that this will reduce the flexibility. I also have to mention, and I thought there was no reason to review it in the committee opinion, that in the comments received, both at the early bill and at the new -- though the matter changed only then, most of those comments are still relevant, for those who have turned in the reviews of the second article referred to the previous reviews - seven positive but 57 made comments. I don't want to say that they all were negative, but at least they weren't positive; they were comments that included criticism. It has also caught my attention - and I don't remember seeing it before, I don't mean to say it didn't happen - that some of the nation's most experienced ambassadors felt that the reason to come out publicly and criticize the bill was extremely harsh, critical of the journey being held. Of course, it is always difficult for officials or employees to come out publicly and criticize, and I'm tempted to believe that those who spoke on behalf of others. It's just my feeling and, of course, I don't know anything about it. I know it's probably gonna get into my mouth because I can't argue with this, but it's that feeling. Part of what is critical is this lack of flexibility. V.E.G. President. I don't understand the need for this bill. A reduction in the number of couriers does not in itself bring much savings. The hire of an ambassador at home on a Red Sea path is not much higher than most officials, office managers, or anything like that. On the other hand, when they go outside, they raise a lot of money and get a better salary, and there's no question, and there's a number that counts there. It is certainly a matter of opinion about what is demeaning and what is not. I think it's worth a good deal to go through the criticisms that came along. I agree with the people who have said that they were almost putting people in an effort to revise the overall law. I admit it's one of the things you should have done when you had the chance to do it. I'm sorry it wasn't done. But I don't think there's any question that there is a full need for it. As a result, I have some adjustment that I'm going over to see about it. Mr. President. I haven't read my opinion of the committee from start to finish, I believe that in itself is unnecessary. People are fully capable of learning about it, the bill and that opinion, and their own opinion of whether it was right or wrong or whether this might have been possible to wait. I haven't seen the point yet. It may be narrow-minded. It is very important that we remember that the Icelandic foreign service is small, it is small. Many may feel that it is normal because the land is small and the people are few. I have felt that this is why we need a bigger and more powerful foreign service than is today, even though those people who do this work are doing an amazingly good job. I admit that before I went into this business, let's say, I had a little different opinions and ideas about the ministry than I have today. Of course, officials or officials of the foreign service, ambassadors, may be concerned or have opinions about how their work environment develops. There's nothing unnatural about that. I believe, however, that all of this is done with good intentions when one sees his work environment, employment security, and the like, and I don't make any comments about it. I have personally declared it over and told myself that it is normal for me to have foreign service mixed with experts, that is because of business or politicians, but they should always be mys to know that those who come from the ministry are the majority of those who are involved in these activities. Thus, it may well be wise to have a set of guidelines but not to have them legally, as to how many are out of the ministry. I think it's all right to wonder, but I think it's wrong to put into law, at least there's always a lot less things that should come in that way. If we just look at the project, of course, then the assignment of foreign service is foreign. It is taking care of the nation's interests, business, individuals, and helping out when people get into trouble. It's been demonstrated lately. The Foreign Service responded and did a tremendously difficult and difficult job when the Covid epidemic struck, and it's done a lot of good. It is international agreements that foreign service is involved in the professional and financial resources responsible for them. It is international agreements and international relations. There are interests that must be cared for that are of utmost importance to us, a legal agreement. There are air travel, etc. All of this is of great importance to Iceland, and most important to a small nation in the middle of the Atlantic, a country of natural resources, which builds its community on the ability to defend and ensure that international laws are respected everywhere. That's one of the great roles of foreign service. It is very important that we continue, and in fact, I think people have done quite well in introducing the activities of foreign service and showing and relating what is being done. In fact, this ministry is invaluable. A respectable president. Finally, in the minority opinion, the problem is over again and over again and reviews the opinion of the person who handles it. I realize that this matter will be agreed here at the Congress Hall and therefore do not suggest that the case be rejected, dismissed, or rejected. On the other hand, I make a motion that will allow the deadline to be suspended. I know that there are flaws. Naturally, the minister's goal is not to postpone his execution. You have to understand that the minister naturally wants the matter to be accepted as soon as possible. In view of the great criticism of the case, in view of the need for an overall review of the law, in view that there are several months of election and the matter is disputed, I think it would be wise to postpone the filming but to initiate a review of the total U.S. foreign services with the intention of developing new laws at the beginning of a new assembly. If you don't accept or destroy the law before the 2021 a.m., then these laws will be accepted. I'm just as opposed to the law, but what I'm trying to do is provide me with some perfunctory suggestions on how to solve this conflict and start working that way. Of course, there is nothing that prevents us from getting to the highest. A minister starts his work by reviewing the overall laws of foreign service. Whether my proposal is accepted or not, I just hope that it will be done because there is every reason to. I would have thought the other would be more beautiful, but here in this hall, we don't necessarily vote for beauty.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u93	A respectable president. I decided to give a speech too. I gave the commission earlier and wanted to be tempted just to answer the question. A senator, but I feel that I might be more expressive in a talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u94	Then I'll just come back.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u95	Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson, Sveinnsson is welcome to answer me. I'd like to start by saying that at the time I've been sitting on my feet. Of course, I have seen the potential and the good workers we have in foreign service. The reason I make that statement is that we have been dealing with overcompensive challenges that have come up short notice. As an example, let me mention our session under the United Nations Human Rights Council. It was a decision made on very short notice. There, the Ministry and the employees showed what they can do, to carry out a major project in a short time, and to ensure our viewpoint and effectiveness. Not only did we sit in the Human Rights Council but we actually participated in the discussion, did things very good, and used the opportunity there. Prehumanity can also be spoken of in the Arctic Council and in other places. This may have been more predictable, and we had more time to prepare. Then I have to name Covid and the condition that we watched as the world almost closed and the Icelanders, as we know it, out of nowhere and out of here on this globe. The officials of the foreign government just got involved sitting by the phone on shifts and saving Icelanders back home, and it was amazing to witness it. I heard from people who had had had to use their ministry and so really felt what it was good to be an Icelander in such a position. I was going to say it first. Of course, it shows that we have in the foreign service, such as the Icelandic administration, this space to respond quickly, something I think is very important, and we may not see all the equations in the administrative department. Government is by nature and should be somewhat conservative. But when we are like this in smaller ways, there is a measure of power, and there is a measure of ability to move on and change. So they asked. paritaprevir Logi Einar Einarsson, when he spoke here for committee party I, a memory of the State Department, of whether or not it had started backwards. I just want to say no to that. Things had clearly not started backwards, for the very first time they looked at the future foreign service. It was asked: " Where are our interests and how will we direct our foreign service so that they look to the interests and interests? Like what? paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson introduced us as a small nation, and our foreign service is the nature of the matter, in accordance with a very small international scale. It means that we need to be very focused and focused on what we are going to do and focus on. I believe that was a complete diagnostic procedure. We can then decide if there would have been an overall review of the law. I just reiterate what I said earlier when I gave the commission, that we still recommend that it be done. In fact, I noted that I did not recall any particular mention of anything that would require an attack on something other than a review of the law in its entirety because it had come to its own years. Whether we like it or not, the order of an ambassador throughout the years has often been given much discussion and even criticism in the community. As a result, I feel that there is good reason for us to have a clear framework regarding the appointment of ambassadors. The ambassadors are among all our top officials, and that's good. This is an extremely important work. Since it is important to represent the Icelandic State in a foreign field, it is important that we choose a suitable person. As I said before, I think we have an extremely well-defined foreign service, but it doesn't change the fact that it's important to have a clear frame around it. I have to admit that I don't understand the argument that it doesn't matter how many ambassadors we have. I might have believed this from the United States, who has talked about raising the number of public jobs and that's the main thing, but I have to admit that I think it's a little crazier by then. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson speaking as if it had nothing to do with it. On the other hand, I can wholeheartedly agree with what appears to some extent in his committee article and in the above talk that, of course, we need to be well designed and enthusiastic, and we need to be able to cope in an unstable world. As a result, the number of ambassadors is not fixed, but they and emissaries need to be assigned. We have, for example, recently shown that we have not only ambassadors but ambassadors who carry out special assignments. We have emphasized the equality of the sexes and have appointed ambassadors who have the issue in particular. I see a lot of such opportunities in the future. We want to be quick, able to respond, and set out a series of initiatives in order to form forethought, or something else. As a result, it is good to have that freedom. That's why I think the bill -- or I don't think anything, I just know, I'm quite sure that the bill we're here with and these laws we're making are meant to make this frame over an ambassador's order. We are here to suggest that these jobs, which I second insist on being among our highest office jobs, be advertised. There is no requirement today, it is in the law that it does not need to be done, and that has not been done. Yet, in recent years we have come to feel that such positions should be advertised, that all interested ones should be able to apply for such things. It's, for example. One factor that I find very important. At the same time, I can't better see that both smaller parts also agree that there may be reasons and it may be important for a minister to have room for someone without advertising and someone outside the ministry. I think this is where we're giving us a clear, good frame around this thing. We're increasing transparency, we're explaining the requirements, we're strengthening this frame. I think this is further added to professionalism at the order of an ambassador's office and only professionalism in our service. In fact, I have to admit that when I read my 1st opinion, I feel that the smaller things are kind of more and less involved in everything we've been doing on the committee and what we're doing in this bill. In fact, it does not show how things should be in some other way. At least I'm going to commend him. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for just being open with the feeling that he should not place any restrictions on the number of ambassadors. It's just a clear view that they can be as many and that each person feels at any time. There may be reason to also conclude that while ambassadors are appointed to five years of age, under government law, this may not be entirely at the table. Perhaps it is a higher tradition that senior officials are on their way to life. In some cases it may be very good. It is also important to remember that in this bill other commands are temporary, especially for five years, and cannot be extended or re-ordered. I think this is what we need when I'm trying to describe that the service needs to be started too, and there's a short period of time involved in a particular project. A respectable president. As I've said before, I support the bill. I haven't heard any argument that I'm impressed with the fact that we should postpone drafting, and less not vote with this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-09-34.u96	A respectable president. I have to start by taking this opportunity and thank them. Parliamentaries who participated in this discussion. I'm gonna be careful not to repeat a speech. paritaprevir The Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir's Daughter. I agree with everything that came out there. I thought why. A senator gives excellent evidence of this. However, I intend to review only the criticisms that have been made. I call attention to the fact that the government opposition, aside from the people's party, has been a big struggle to get this bill to a cat's nose. The bill had appeared this spring, but it had to be negotiated in particular at the end of it now. Killing this case was a priority. There has not been much debate in either the Hall of Congress or elsewhere, nor has there been a grammatical argument against the bill. But I agree with what. paritaprevir Butt of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir and compliments. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson's son, not for his viewpoint on the matter, but for my respect, I make it clear, to the point. A senator has written articles, or at least one article on the subject. Similarly, he has appeared here and described his viewpoints. I have to admit, I'm in exactly the same place as what. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son, I don't understand. I'm not gonna repeat that as a dog. paritaprevir Brises Níelsson's Brynjar said, but it was very difficult to understand exactly what the 1st thing was to criticize. Let us speak human language. Like what? paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir referred to there's no record of this. None. Now it's the one standing here on foreign and development co-worker. And if I make up my mind, then what? paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson to ambassador, I'll just do it. I can do it later. Then I can go to a coffee shop and order people to get ambassadors' positions. It's just that way. Here's the first time you have a bill to put some frame around these cases. I haven't heard a single man, except for those who sent in the envelopes, and hardly a word. Senators, except for what they're doing. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, who has promoted his views, protests that it would be wise to put a frame on these matters. Not one man. And already it is. Councilmen say, "Hey, we can't do it right away, we're gonna need a full review first, so I'll agree with the latter. I'm not making it impossible to start such a job, not at all. But putting a frame around these things is a big step now. When they say there is no need to put a roof on a number of ambassadors, let's just speak human language. There are 160 dipolamates, plus/minus, and ambassadors have gone up to 42. This is where they've heard that it's all right to multiply them, that the fourth, the fifth, each dipolamate is an ambassador. Now, in the process, if a minister calls ambassadors, the life council is the subject. That's the way it is. - I also want to use this opportunity and thank you for the warm words for the staff of foreign services. I agree with that. It's also my experience, so it didn't surprise me. We have very powerful people. - We have 26 emissary offices and they have even said it's all right to have 50 or more ambassadors. You can't put two ambassadors over each office. You don't. If there is any doubt that this adds to flexibility, this is exactly the evidence of flexibility. I have even been criticized in reviews for using legal authority to appoint an emissary of the emissary of the emissary. The person then has the title ambassador because he is while he's in charge of the office. Then he comes home, and he'll be the emissary again. It's curved. Of course, I've never had such a long time in the history of foreign service where no ambassador has been appointed. When I arrived, 40 of 160 diplomats were ambassadors. All were appointed by that minister, and some had been given the opportunity very young to be ambassadors for the rest of their lives. I'll quite admit that, a respectable president, I strongly disagree with the view that people are supposed to live a lifetime. It may well be that at some point in your life, a person is truly wonderful, but there may be some things. Besides, I don't think it's a good incentive for the person to know that he's got the situation his whole life. It is as inflexible as it can be. There is no doubt, more dignified President, that this bill, will become law, enhance flexibility. I could use some. Hv. paritaprevir In recent times, Bill's Bryndís, Haraldsdóttir, gave us some examples, and there are always cases. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson conducted the Civil Service project, where a large part of foreign officials worked day and night to get Icelanders home. One of the factors that made it so successful was that a change in foreign service based on proposals that have virtually all been made, 151 proposals, and all numbers were made. This increased the flexibility in the ministry. Because of what? paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson said that he would not copy such criticism from foreign workers now thought that there are endless cases of staff protesting changes. I know it well as a former health minister, and I'm not alone. I remember that time when it happened. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, the highest. Secretary of state, made the adjustment to unite development and the foreign service. Hv. A senator can sort me out sometime, but I don't remember the hurfreaks and fireworks from the employees who expressed themselves about it. On the other hand, I think that's what we're doing. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson did exactly what he did when he asked for it. I have done so before, and I can do it again to commend myself. A senator for making these changes. They were wise. I've followed these changes in my session to the minister's chair. One of the reasons for such success in the civil service work is that the development of foreign service has blessedly been united by its development. The people who have been involved in developing cooperation work, which is now increasing in volume, did a great deal of good work, as did the rest of the people on the job when all hands were needed on deck. It was good then to be flexible. When I was a health minister, I said that health care is not for the staff, it was for patients. And foreign services are not for the staff, they're for the Icelanders. Of course, health care for Icelanders and others who need that service are needed. That doesn't mean I'm talking the staff down. That's a long road away. It is very important to have qualified personnel in these areas as important as others, extremely important. It is important that they feel good and feel good about themselves. This bill has very little effect on the current ambassador who will only be ambassadors. But this is a big deal, especially for younger people who are starting a job in foreign service because it enhances the flexibility of foreign service and gives people the opportunity to go to work stations and emissaries as ambassadors. When ministers who will be here in the future decide to make an ambassador an ambassador, they are not making decisions that will even affect people for decades. Now it's just a way of dealing with humans that everyone has their own talents. You can never know what the person will turn out to be, except when he's given the chance. The number of opportunities for the staff of foreign services is increasing. There's no dispute. I'm not going to get into this any more. I hope I answered the viewpoints presented here. If anyone wants more information, there has been no hesitation in getting them on. It has certainly been discussed for a long time. A foreign - business committee and we are not underreaching this progress, for this is indeed a progressive matter that will strengthen foreign service and increase flexibility in that vital service. What I like, however, when I do not agree with them. Congress officials who have criticized the bill is that people here appreciate the work being done in foreign service. It is not default and has not always been. That's a good thing. The more people notice it and call attention to it, the better because foreign service is of utmost importance. It's just that, a respectable president, even though me and Iceland are generally favored, I think I may claim that, no one will be able to care for our interests unless we are ourselves. No one does. We need to stay in the field and guard our interests. We too need to be completely aware that, as in other places, we are few and small. This does not mean that we cannot set high goals and apply them. It is not a sign, either when it comes to the foreign service or any other public service, between size and quality. We should always set goals, preferably measurable, about how it should work. Me and the Icelanders have more to do than many others, including Because we are few. The curve that the bill offers will help us to do so. So I'll compliment you again. Bragi This Sveinsson us to take care of our interests when he left, in great opposition to various things, if I recall correctly, in uniting foreign service and developing cooperation, which is a most important service. The people who have been there in recent years and decades have great experience and knowledge. How good it is that it too is used in the traditional foreign service! It's my experience that we've been going along. But better, if it's enough. I'm counting on it. Congress officials will be very much responsible for this great progress. Even if you're suggesting what to do. Bragi ISveinsson not going to Gunnar against it, so that's clear... yeah, I'll take part in a vote, and I'll vote against it-- doesn't rule out that we're going to have a full reexamination. [[Up front.]] It is a very big project, however, and it does not matter how you handle it. It would be best for good reconciliation to take place both in order and in order to reach the outcome. Of course, it is not possible to say that things that obviously need to be changed cannot be changed because they do not take everything at once. There's evidence that's not going to work. Here I have seen no material or grammatical arguments that at least convince me not to accept this matter. On the contrary, I have always had strong convictions for the case, and I have actually grown stronger every day in my belief that this bill will become a law.
