ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u1	It is a arrangement between the president and the presidents of Congress that a meeting meeting can last longer than at the end of the day. 20 if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u2	To answer these questions, Prime Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers, Seafood and Agriculture Ministers, Foreign and Development Ministers, Transport, Industrial and Development Ministers, Social Affairs and Children's Ministers and Justice Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u3	A respectable president. It's good to be back in the council for the next election. You see, democracy doesn't go under if I sometimes get the impression that the government wishes us to be a little slower at the council. But it is our responsibility and responsibility to provide financial support, and that is why, in our restoration, we have been more and less supportive of most of the government's actions but also brought criticism of the government and sometimes, in some cases, a crisis. It is interesting to observe the government, and I see that the government meetings are extending when it comes to the use of government defenses. That's why I'd like to know, is there absolutely a solid agreement within the government for the treatment of disease control? I also think there's a little bit of information. Yesterday it was said that audiences should be banned at sports games, but now audiences are blessed to play sports if they wear masks. I would like to direct it to the government to only sharpen information and information flow to people and the public. First, I would like to ask: Is there a solid agreement within the government on the operation? Then I want to go to the top. The prime minister to set up economic measures that are in line and in relation to very strong and clear disease prevention measures. The government has promised a number of beautiful things, but I think it's getting a little new and better. We've heard a great deal of statements about a lot of projects. Then it becomes evident that projects are reduced from year to year, including for transport between 2019 and 2020. The government doesn't have a sound and a picture. V.E.G. A secretary of transportation said yesterday: There are words for the first time when jobs and jobs were being discussed. I especially ask: Have we not gone beyond saying that there are words first? We need clearer action and clear messages. Second, I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Will the government take advantage of a package of action that gives people more security than just the next few weeks? Can we see steps that will allow people to extend space to the next 103/4:12 months? That's when I'm talking about extending the income immediately, including... loss of unemployment, temporary reduction of insurance costs for the next 12 months, including for SMEs. These are two questions to the highest level. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u4	Mr. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir that it's good for us to be back on our way to the council, and it's absolutely right. A senator that democracy is not under siege. Of course, it is important that we continue to have this important conversation at the Allied Parliament on the situation in which we are now, both in terms ofindustrial and economic and social measures. I'll call the president's attention to the fact that the clock is on some trip, so let's put it this way. At least she's... [[Maybe it's just a timeless classic.]] This clock is a timeless classic. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But I'll call the president's attention because I'm only talking until she stops. Hv. A member of the council asked for treatments for disease prevention. Of course, the situation is now, as shown by Thor Aspelund's fine entry this morning, that red flags are everywhere, regardless of the incidence of infection or the severity of illness. The situation is serious. Hence, it was very important to act in a decisive way. I sense, like all of us, fatigue in the community of this condition, but I also sense a great deal of understanding that it is necessary to act in a decisive way toward the protection. We were very successful in mastering the epidemic during the first and second waves, and there is no reason to believe but that we will also master a third wave by following our best advice again, based on the evidence and knowledge we already gain in the struggle with the epidemic. Is there a unity in the government? Yes, there is a unity in the government on these actions. Despite the length of meetings, they say nothing more than the fact that people want to cover their actions and positions thoroughly. It's what worries us all. I'd like to use this opportunity here and encourage all of us to do everything we can to promote solidarity, because if we can get along with this third wave, we'll get it down faster. [[The president calls.]] Yeah, all right, then I'll just talk about the economics in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u5	I think it's the highest. The prime minister has now had his two minutes, but I pray that the clock will do so with respect. There's some fluttering on the vote system, too, that's supposed to be closed, so something's only going on with our technology. The president will suggest an old insult.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u6	Mr. President. I would like to agree strongly with the prime minister, it is urgent to promote and prepare a solidarity in the community. I've said it many times here. The organization is such a valuable tool for us to get through. The closer we are, the closer we can get through a crisis and the great scrap that is no longer new. That's why I want to clear the government of being ready for action. This is the third wave right now. We've been told there may be a few. Therefore, I would like to encourage the government to set up economic measures that are in line with this massive crisis and this massive unemployment, whether in Southnes or in other parts of the community, in order to give clear answers. That's what's being called for. I think it's very important that the council be activated to a greater degree, I stress it. I don't particularly like it when I see that the government is getting a special opinion on how far it can go in control decisions. All right. If it's to know what the line is, it's fine. But I want it to be directed to the highest. Ministers and governments think it's more successful for me to activate a democratic site and he's here. He is the General of the Icelanders. And you know, there is a greater solidarity than people suspect, and more support for many of the measures the government is making. But we also say: " Bring what has not worked and give answers. ' Shall we mention a cane loan? They haven't worked. What other options are you planning, for example? to invite travel services? [[The president calls.]] Yeah, we're in this together, but it takes two to dance tango.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u7	Mr. President. That's important. A senator says, the situation is often higher in the council than is suspected. That's how I feel that the discussion we've had since spring on how to take action and how to deal with the epidemic has been good. I think the debate at the council has been healthy, and I think we're about a lot of envy in that regard. Hv. A senator asked about the government's actions. First, of course, we have made extensive preparations, including extensive operations. to deal with operators in trouble. Of course, it has the highest priority for tourism, but I would also like to mention to make up those who work within creative articles. They will be brought with arrangements by the government, which we will propose here at the General Assembly and will appear in a budget bill. I also mention a temporary reduction in the amount of insurance that was reported during the days to support the work experience. We will discuss such measures in financial programs, both short and long - term. Hv. For example, a senator mentioned a public investment. It has increased tremendously in the history of this government, yet some projects have been delayed. It's not the government's fault. Hv. A member of the body quoted a paper written by Páll, likely a son of Hreinsson, on the legal rights of disease - control laws when she referred to legal requirements for the ruling decision. Of course, it is very important at any given time that governments exercise certain self - criticism and seek the most qualified specialists to review the authority of the law. There were some very helpful tips that will be presented at the General Assembly in reviewing disease - control laws but also the central conclusion that governments have very rich authority to deal with the current situation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u8	Mr. President. In a job crisis, there is no work to be found for jobseekers. In a pandemic and in an uncertain period, there are about 20,000 people without a job in Iceland. Everyone knows about the situation of the tourism services, which had become the largest sector in Iceland, but the epidemic also has a major impact on the pressures of social and health care. Our futures are under great pressure and are mostly female. Throughout the world, the virus epidemic is increasing not only inexorably but also in sex palaces, with the response of many countries to the crisis, and that is just the case here. The government's so - called investment campaign increases gender rights because it is about 85% of the men - made work. Investment in innovation also belongs to women, and obviously everyone works with almost exclusively traditional male activity. The results of the analysis in the next year's budget on the effect of action on gender equality are that much more functions are being made up of by the increase in expenses won by men. Most of the investment initiatives and the greater part of the other measures are thought to contribute to the unchanged conditions in which there is a gender palace in favour of men. Unemployment affects women as much as men do. The lack of employment for women is more than that of men in almost all parts of the country and in Southnes, where there is a total lack of work, was the unemployment of women in August 21% while men 16%. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister, why the highest. The government decided to deal with unemployment in men rather than with women and to promote the discrimination of the sexes in such a decisive way in a professional crisis.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for raising an issue that is very important, which is different from the results of a pandemic for men and women. Worldwide, we see that the pandemic has caused increased domestic violence. Even in this regard, the United Nations has spoken of a special epidemic. There the government has responded by supporting the female shelter specifically and attacking the growing awareness of violence. The Icelandic government has decided not to cut down the official system. This is a very important and political decision, and more of it is a part of women's staff. It is true, however, that when we consider special investment campaigns alone, such as driving a car. When a senator here speaks of the effect on the sex, it is clear that when you look for transport, for example, or the building sector that is the traditional investment, they are primarily useful in creating men - made jobs. Why is that? Yes, because the Icelandic labour market is the most sensory exchange you can find. That is a problem, and that is one of the things we have considered. Now we're starting to have a special opinion of the salary and the sex exchange between the labour markets because it needs to be looked at for a longer time. Why is a Icelandic job market as sex - oriented as it really is? It's a long-term project to change that. I want to say it to what. A senator that when we look at this investment plan, many of the decisions that are less useful to women will be made. I mention research, innovation, green projects and creative articles. All of these are investments that will certainly benefit women as well as men. I agree with what. A senator that we need to be very aware of the subject of a sex market, and I'm happy if the General talks on that subject. But it is also a big decision that protects the public service, the health system, the schools, and all the agencies that women have maintained, and if we can reduce this epidemic, it is especially the great responsibility that has been placed on the shoulders of women in all our public system. [[The president calls.]] Thus, I am not minimizing the men who work in those classes or who work in men's classes like the police, who have also stood in the front. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u10	It is still only time to tease us, but now it is so obvious that it adds up generously 20 to 30 seconds at the time of public speaking. Congress officials are not authorized to do so, but the president brings attention to the fact that there is no need for the full use of that time. Rather, it is desirable to stick to two minutes of prior traffic and one minute of the next.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u11	Mr. President. The conclusion, however, is that with the highest measure of action. Governments, with expenses designed to deal with employment crisis, lean on women. That's the way it is. We must insist that this be changed. V.E.G. The government intends not only to promote gender discrimination but also to discriminate people who are unemployed and in a difficult position. When the income - related period was extended at the beginning of September, I repeatedly pointed out that this law was about to leave behind those who had reached basic employment benefits and made up of three months'income - related improvements. Government officials chose not to listen, leaving 12,000 people behind when other unemployed received six months of income - related improvements. Why was equality not cared for? Why does the government want some of the best victims in this crisis?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u12	Mr. President. As far as this last point goes, I think it's important that we look into it specifically, i.e. to respond to those who fell between ships and docks when it comes to the income - related period of unemployment. But at the point. A senator comes up here, really speaking, and talking about the government being aware that increasing gender rights by its actions is, of course, like every other joke, Mr. President, when we look at what this government has been doing, when we're promoting public service, promoting education, taking real action to improve the health system to support that class, as I described earlier, that have maintained this system. When we're changing how we think about investments, just watching a green investment, watching research, watching innovations. Yes, it is, in this view, that men are more likely to get from competitive funds than from women. There's something to consider in the system. However, there are no doubt few governments that have put greater emphasis on gender equality in recent years, who view equality as a unit. We're going to be reimbursement of equality here. So I think it's kind of kind of funny to take out some long - term, timely growth in transport and building projects and to talk about it as a special approach to gender equals. I don't really think it's just any kind of water.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u13	A respectable president. The main meeting of the Quantum Community was to conclude, with permission of the President: ▪ An amendment of the Organization's Organization requires that the government reevaluate its stand on the standard of life for disabled and long - suffering people and without delay improve our benefits. The government's shame is to keep us in poverty and hide behind Covid and bad economic conditions. The conclusion also states: ▪ For three years, the government of Katrín, Bjarni, and Sigurður Ingi has decided to increase the poverty of disabled and long - suffering people instead of improving our terms. A persistent group of disability are in poor condition. 25,000 million people were able to squeeze out by crocodile rivers. At the same time, 25 million were coming to help with food. At the same time, 50 people had to disappear and no food assistance was provided. At the same time, people are at home after ten days of the month without food, and they can't even join ranks. I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Is it not time to tell these individuals that their time has come, and they are no longer to wait? Or when on earth is their time? He wasn't in the goodies yet. He's here now, isn't he? I ask: Is it really ambition for this government to defend this situation, protect people from food, protect them from the need for people to wait for food, spend some people at home, and maybe have nothing but a little signal or maltdos in the fridge? Is it not time for these individuals to get a contract of life, even if only that? Why on earth does this group not get a contract of life as everyone else has? If that does not exist, would a minister be able to answer for any reason, or are there no money? If we look at this in the context of what is about to be spent by Covid, it's a huge amount of money, and in this case it must be able to go to their pockets. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u14	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for taking up this important matter. I just want to review what has been done in this terms, since contributions to microenergy have increased from 62 billion to over 80 billion in real value, to over 80 billion. Of course, it is, to some extent, because of demographic changes, but also because of the increases that have taken place. These include a special contribution that the Council decided to defend in order to reduce the breakdown of disability - saving donors and thereby to meet one of the requirements that have been most prominent in their presentation, natural. We also have in all our activities, the entire ultimatum, the priorities for income groups. I'd like to mention child support. I'd like to mention changes in tax systems that put taxes primarily to the most efficient groups. I'd like to mention a health component that we talked about for years and now have taken major steps to reduce the expense of patients in the health system, especially with emphasis on micro-energy donors and the elderly. The dental cost, which had not been revised since 2004, was finally taken action. Then I'd like to mention the last thing that attracts the elderly, i.e. a new added support to those whose feet are nested is one of them. He builds on the most difficult work that was done with older citizens when he identified who was the worst. It is quite true that the government that sat here was making a major change and greatly increased contributions to the elderly in its time by legal reforms approved in 2016. The first work of the current government was to increase the job income-free market, target changes in health costs, and at last bring this added social support Of course, it remains that the change in the micro-organization system has not been made at the highest level. The social and child-friendly minister contributed at the beginning of the terms. I think it's very important that these changes are under attack so that we can meet those who are in the front of their feet. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u15	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister. It is true, but the fact is, people don't eat for this, they are as hungry as they still get a refusal after meals. It's just as bad to stay home when you don't have food in the fridge. I'm asking and I'm going to the highest. A minister has not yet answered: Why on earth is this the only group that doesn't get contracts of life? Why can the biographies be protected by blundering and unbounded agreements and given unlimited money to the European Union, not to be put to this group? V.E.G. The prime minister speaks of shrinking. The system is so insane that by reducing people's losses, they lose money, they're taken from it only rents or some other group of benefits, and people aren't doing well and even worse after. There are many examples of this. That's why I say, it's time to answer it once and for all, why this group won't be rewarded like everyone else. And why can't you put your arms around this group so that it doesn't have to stand in line for food to be kept in line?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u16	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. I would like to remind you that in the budget it is clear that the improvement in social security will be 3.6% over the year based on an estimate of the total estimated average increase in employment market by 2021. This is in line with the 69th grade. the social security legislation requiring that these improvements should change annually and take into account the development of pay, although they will never increase less than according to the consumer tax. This is based on this assessment. But then I must ask. paritaprevir Guðmundur Igngi Kristinsson, who comes up to say that the government is giving the employment organization unlimited funds: how to deal with it. A senator? Counts 'em out. A senator who is too busy securing jobs in this country, creating jobs in this country, paying for employment so that the people of the country can continue to work? Counts 'em out. A senator too far gone? Counts 'em out. A senator says it's about some member of the Professional Association? You see, it's not like that. It's about the evaluation of the community's total interest and how we can continue to create valuables in society, something that I would have believed everyone had. Senators should be able to agree and put us through this scrap together. This is about, of course, that whether hunting fish or creating new knowledge and increased value for exporting, whether it is about providing services or selling trips or making food, we will continue to do so. [[The president calls.]] This is what it's all about. Is it normal for the General and the government to face the commercial situation at such times? Of course it's normal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u17	A respectable president. Watchful has been the reply of the State Marshal to the Evening Press asking about individuals on a file that was not to be dismissed during the past two years. According to the U.S. Marshal's response, there are 64 persons, both of which are candidates for international protection and those who have been expelled for illegal living in Iceland. Then you must ask: Is it men who have become aware of breaking up, or are the members who have been on the land longer than their visas allowed? It also states in response to the official's permission that the exact number of people in this country cannot be determined, but many have left the country, possibly with counterfeit conditions, that they may then have lost. Then it says: "In some cases, people have been found here, and they have left the country. You have the feeling that this may have happened, so the police have just walked down the dry road and met some of those people, learned their stay here, and referred them out of the country. But it's more complicated than that, because these people need shelter and food to survive, and you wonder at what circumstances and circumstances these people are staying here. The police do not seem to monitor this group, and they have flown for the regular presence of a group of people who have come here illegally, I'm not talking about people in shelters or such things but about other parties. As a result, you have to ask the highest. Minister on how to monitor and whether to formalize it or to increase it in some way. For the reasons that I've already traced - I have 11 seconds left by the clock - I have every reason to watch this carefully and make arrangements to make sure that there's a catch. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u18	The president reminds us that the clock is being done in such a way now that it automatically adds 25 to 30 seconds to each speaker, so the president respectfully points out that the speakers should not use that time to the full.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u19	A respectable president. Hv. A senator asks mainly of the operations of the head of the state police department responsible for this work. There, ten people work there, having a set of procedures that I have recently studied with them. First of all, there is a report on people who are supposed to be disfellowshipped and who have not left the country themselves. If it fails, another process will follow. Of course they're being watched, and the police are calling for company. This is not the case with people who see themselves in the background, such as the driving force at the Lau 25 - 60's. A senator wants to be left alone. They can stay somewhere else, then go wrong, so they get into trouble with the law, and they'll be sent out as a result. Of course, the project needs to be reviewed, so I had a recent meeting with the U.S. Marshal's Department, where only ten people do this work. Of course, it is clear that there is an increasing number of those who need to be expelled.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u20	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this poor answer. I can't tell if it's the highest. A minister can appreciate how these matters are handled. I'd like to mention another one, too. People in these situations are more susceptible to man-saltering it, as well as whipping it. That's why I'm asking a secretary again if he's not going to make any progress in promoting surveillance so that these parties aren't in this illegal manner in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u21	A respectable president. I had questions about the construction process in the past few weeks, so I had a special contact with the U.S. Marshal's Department to review all this procedure. Where Can You Do Better? Where does the lawgiver post the task, perhaps making it more difficult for them to do otherwise? Where can you do better to monitor more closely and make these projects more easy? We need to look at options and have had discussions in European countries about some options, having people in certain areas we have, for example. not executed by changes in our laws. There are many countries around us where this is done so that people will be in a certain area after they receive e.g. Denial from both administrative points to facilitate the implementation of this procedure. This does not happen when people are lost in society, nor can decisions be carried out. There are some changes in the law that would have to be determined, but otherwise we are considering the entire work in it as well as in other aspects. Hv. A senator enters organized violations and human halls, and of course we are also considering what we can do better, and we are sitting over it with all the police offices.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u22	A respectable president. In spring, the government complained that there was so much uncertainty that the government could not put its plans out of the code. Congress and nation had to wait six months for government policy. Prior to the weekend, the government's policy was finally over. In short, the government's policy is: Unless we get back 2 million tourists to Iceland in 2023 instead of 2026, there will be a slang and cutting. A bonus if the hairy comes back. Do we really have to wait six months for this? We face a huge problem, the largest economic crisis in a century, and the solution is to wait and hope for more tourists. Unemployment is approaching a rate of 10% and will most likely stay through the year at least in spite of government policy. Amazingly, in just one part of the budget, there is a new goal to be set. The goal is to create a total of 200 jobs next year in the knowledge sector when the need is a hundred times that number. Meanwhile, 1 out of 10 sufferers wait for unemployment, two out of 10 for young people waiting for their apartments in the South. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is the plan really just to wait and hope for the best of tourist arrivals? Why are there no steps in the financial program for new and lasting jobs? Does this government usually have a business policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u23	Mr. President. I have to say, I don't really realize where it is. A senator is leaving. The financial strategy presented here includes the policy that we are not in the process of cutting. It's simply not so, Mr. President. We are saying, "We are going to protect the results that have been achieved, whether in health, welfare, or education. " And not only will we contribute when it comes to education and increasing its supply. In particular, I would like to mention a new decision to promote and expand education opportunities in Southnes through the Southern Education Committee, where employment conditions are just very bad. We're promoting this element specifically, because we know it's one of the ways that works. It is important for people to have new opportunities. I don't believe anything but that. A senator agrees, even though he is unlikely to be here. Then we're looking for a longer time. No other government has ever lifted a single donation when it comes to basic research and innovation, whether through the expansion of competitive college funds, reimbursement for research and development, the creation of a new innovation fund, Krishna, or the promotion of technical development funds. These are investments that will really matter. I know exactly what some of them are. Senators will say. They will say: "Why no more? Why no more already? I know this sector well, and I know that having a clear view of the future is just that important. This investment will take time. And, yes, there will be more work here in the knowledge sector. And, yes, we'll see an increase in wealth in every aspect of society. I also mention the food wealth that was started with the plan to increase innovation in food production in particular. Do we have a chance there for Icelanders? Yes, we have a lot of lost opportunities that are finally being done, one with this fund and another with an increase to garden farmers as well as other opportunities for them. Then there are investments. Gonna go for it. A senator to say that he does not like working on transportation, building projects, or anything else being offered? Of course, it is not so, Mr. President, that you can come up here and speak in a way that you can. A senator did. [[The president calls.]] This treasure is being used with full force so that we can grow out of this crisis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u24	A respectable president. I can only talk so easily. It's part of the budget. I asked for new permanent jobs. I asked because the government had exactly the same proposal for innovation in us that the government rejected them. I asked because there's about 10% unemployment, despite all this. During these days, tens of thousands of people trust in public production. We can only hope, for there is no other budget so that most of the unemployment workers will get off as soon as possible, there are only temporary resources available, hoping that tourists will have 1923 so that they won't have to get cut. It's simply part of a financial program, very easy to find. However, accepting a pension is not a temporary arrangement and is especially necessary in this regard. However, the government does not intend to do so, leaving a pensioner with an increase in the terms that others have received in contracts in recent times. There are no plans to nurture spiritually to the vast number of people who will be pained to bind unemployment, and nothing is available for him except to wait and hope. That's a big transition from the highest words. Ministers that justice can't wait. Has some assessment of future costs been made by keeping people in constant uncertainty and insecurity?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u25	Mr. President. Of course, I can't tell you what's wrong. A senator chooses to say here, and he can say what he wants, I'm just completely against him. I must keep the facts in place, as if to make up the fact that no other government has promoted mental health in the same way that the one sitting here has. This has been done in a progressive way since the beginning, since we do not view it as a temporary project. Rather, we are now because of the situation of adding even more to what has already been determined. So I can't agree with that. A senator says that he acts as if nothing is going on in this regard. Hv. A senator is concerned about the level of employment I have, too, because I think persistent unemployment is one of the most evils anyone can have. So I wonder how the government presented its efforts to support Icelandic employment during the days, including tax appeals to green investments, to the most unlikely operators, and then, of course, I'm referring parties to tourism, but also to parties in creative articles and others. I mention a temporary reduction in insurance bills. And, yes, I heard Porta's response. It was natural just to do something special for the economic organization. It's what it is. A senator is really not supposed to be supporting the Icelandic economy at the time we are now living with increases in innovation, coming to meet the worst by helping the people of the country, and passing through these provisions? I must ask that question, given the response of Porta's council so that I don't really see a stone standing over a stone.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u26	V.E.G. President. The storm that swept the country last December had great consequences, as we all know. The state responded quickly and has had important work on electricity. Work to bring electricity into the ground has been accelerated and will reach 250 miles [250 km] on Earth this year. That's fine. This project strengthens countrywide and ensures farmers and other citizens better security and improved quality of life. But the storm had a greater impact. The wallet blocks down fences in large areas. In each country, fences are a major expense factor. At the top of this, a kaal appeared in the thick regions of the north and east of the country. According to my sources, there are areas where no one escapes calculus. Of course, farmers responded by recycling and cultivating, but as often on our good land, weather was still difficult. In the northern part of the country, the spring was very dry, and a large proportion of recycling failed as a result. A goose also has helped, and their rivers are great. The situation now is that many people are less alert and therefore have to decide whether to meet them with a decrease in livestock or a cost to a costly haystack. Not all farmers hear me optimistically that the government is coming along with them because there is no added funds in the treasure. Last year, he was applied for increased funds in 2013. Governments have been able not to collect money from the fund but have always come to help when tragedy strikes. There is now a funded application due to 4,700 acres [4700 ha] of calculus and approximately Two hundred miles of fence. V.E.G. President. So I would like to ask myself, " Will a minister intend to use his means of raising money to a treasure, since I cannot believe that farmers should be left alone with this loss? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u27	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry on this urgent matter. You're absolutely right. You're going to miss it. A senator, especially in the North and East, suffered severe supplies in connection with the storm that she made for publicity. Hv. In this regard, a senator cites a Fund of Limbo that operates according to law since 2009 and is in the foundation of a state independent institution. In addition to the funds that put money into the fund every year, the sea has a way of working on its property. His possessions were over the last millennium about 200 million. K. but the budget is about... 8 million a year, which is small in the large context mentioned following this storm. The sea advertised according to applications for strength and delay to submit applications was completed on October 1. 271 applications were received for calmation in the tubes and 74 applications as a result of fence damage and application procedure is under way. It is obvious that, in view of this magnitude, the usual budget is not 8 million. A.K., and a question of what space it will be to meet these wishes all together. I believe that they should make an effort to do so and will direct them to the council for financial treatment that will be done. Like what? A senator rightly pointed out that such things are examples, in 2012 and 2013, cold lions were added by special funding, and I have no basis but for this to be repeated in view of the disaster of farmers in this area of the past winter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u28	V.E.G. President. I thank the minister for his response, and I trust him to follow these matters. I will receive it here at the council and lay it on the scales in this respect. But I would like to arrive at the end of my discussion, which, in fact, isn't gradual and can't be settled in a very short time. During the days, a major difference between the EU export figures and the number of importers was found in Iceland's Habitat. This is a huge interest and high stakes, jobs inside the country, lost income for state funds, and it is the common interests of farmers, consumers and importers to the integrity of a business that has already been agreed on. What a surprise it was to realize that many European farmers are victimized and badly injured! But it affects all of us, both consumers and manufacturers. I think we need to hold on to this group, and I'd like to see if a minister can discuss this matter a little bit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u29	A respectable president. Thank you again for your answer. I expect a good cooperation with you. A senator who works for a degree of relief for his financial status. That's what I'm talking about. It is true that a certain discrepancy has developed in toll files, file itself, and import. I'm aware that the Minister of finance has it in practice and has set out to update the toll file and try to spend the streets there. It is clear that the largest weakness in these matters, if we can talk about weakness, is the contract made in the history of the Government of Sigmundur Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunnuga in 2015, as the then minister of foreign affairs, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, and the then agricultural minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, introduced in September that year, and followed by a major import. The leaders of this deal are, in my opinion, smiling, and therefore we have a job, me and the highest. Secretary of State, preparing a review of the same contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u30	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize a legal adjustment to the General Assembly. I present the bill on behalf of the International Presidency Committee, all of whom are assigned to the bill along with the audience members of the Archipelago and the Gangs. Reasons are well - known to the United Nations. The experience of the staff of the General Assembly in the Covid-19 epidemic has shown that there has to be a ruling authority for the General Assembly to participate in committee meetings using telecommunications. Parliamentary regulations assume that the members of the Parliament are obliged to attend a meeting of committees, but they have the same rules as meeting members. Have it in 1 mg. 17th par. A concierge was understood to make it necessary for a member of the committee to arrive at a committee meeting. Thus, a meeting of committees is considered to be just a conclusion if a greater proportion of members of the committee are present at the meeting, as indicated by Article 22. Congress. Although the use of telecommunications and telecommunications has been widely practiced in committees over the past few years, it has been true that a member of the committee has not been able to participate in a vote on matters, rights, or the subsequent decision of other members of the Parliament, except on the spot, on the private council. During the last legislation of the legislature council, temporary variations have been adopted, as permitted according to Article 95. to dissociate from 1 mgr. 17th par. Congress on the attendance of members of the Parliament found regular committees and 22 stragglers. of the Summit's Summit. This led to guidance on the implementation of the variants and the use of telecommunications equipment. This was done to create members of the General Assembly to handle the committees despite meeting bans and restrictions were removed from the crowning epidemic. They were first adopted at a meeting on March 12, but they were then extended, and they acted as the epidemic went forward. I think, in general, it was a pleasure to see how, both members of the council and the guests, and clearly, that telecommunications made it easier for us to get through the past winter and last spring. President. The objective of the bill is to allow members of the Parliament to participate in a decision-making committee meeting using telecommunications at specific times. This suggests that the principle remains that members of the committee are in a meeting place, but in the event of an unforeseen situation, members of the Parliament are allowed to participate in a meeting using telecommunications equipment. Takes the warrant, for example. to the health and disease prevention conditions, such as the ones we now live in. Similarly, the illness of children or other caregivers may conflict with the use of telecommunications, travel disorders due to the weather, or the collapse of travel so that delegates will be firmly blocked in their own votes, away from a meeting place, or when committees are held outside the council's work programme. The bill carries a change in 17th and 22ndregs. That's why we're contingency. A closer, perhaps fixed, extraction rules for the telecommunication system are expected to continue. It will, of course, be considered and first based on the counsel that has already been published on the same subject. It is proper to insist that this is not a general and open warrant for members of Congress to participate in committee meetings with telecommunications that may be acceptable to some, while others are concerned about overstepping these materials, at least first, as humans get better in this new reality. Here's the way I think it should be acceptable to everyone. Any specific circumstances create the possibility of a telecommunication at a committee meeting or a telecommunications hearing. Then you will learn more about how things work out. I think we've all learned a lot from going through the last winter, last spring, and after last summer's incident. We are still in the position of having to live with the obvious need for this to be important, even crucial, in terms of maintaining functioning of members of the Parliament despite the possibility of contracting, or some having to be held out from the assembly for contaminating, or even isolation. The conclusion is to suggest this change in the law of Congress and it would be desirable that the case would quickly be granted so that we do not have to continue to build on variations or forwards from the council. Mr. President. After this discussion, I suggest that the case be addressed to the management and monitoring committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u31	A respectable president. Like what? A senator went over, not by general authority, but by one step in that direction. I think it's wise that we don't take the big jump right now, but we're moving on toward more telecommunications. I wondered, though, if we need a clearer definition of certain aspects of this matter, such as. for transport problems. Hv. A senator said that this is true when members of the council were properly confined to their homes in a district. I wondered if we need to have a definition of what it means, if there is a need for proof of transportation problems, or what it is, so this does not become a public authority. If we merely take into consideration the individual's judgment, the temptation may be to make more use of this material. I'd like to ask you some health issues that concern the senator himself and the child's illness. When people are sick or are treated with a sick child, they are only sick and have nothing to do with their work. This is how it works at every workplace. If people are sick at home or are caring for a sick child, we will not let them attend a meeting even if they are at a telecommunications meeting. I wondered if this factor is above the head of a step in the right direction. A sick person should be allowed to be sick, and the parents of sick children should only be allowed to care for them. If we allow sick senators to come to a meeting they may as well call the fighters on, I am not sure that the Council will lead us with a fine example of how people should be associated with their medical rights in a job market.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u32	Mr. President. Of course, the main concern of transport problems is, for example, if the local Parliaments who take advantage of flights from home and home on weekends intend to attend a committee meeting on Monday morning, but then there is simply no flying to Isafjörður. It is simple and official and should not be complicated in itself. It is basically assumed that under such obvious circumstances the senator can call in and ask for a visit. This is indicated in the final case of Article 1. try to report it to the committee as well as you can in advance. Regarding the possibility of being there when the senator is present, e.g. I don't think there's any reason to worry that it's right to force senators to be either sick at a meeting or running from sick children. But this possibility exists, e.g. if a deputy of that senator is not able to step in and if the senator himself wants to. Suppose he has been involved in a matter for a long time, now it is time for a committee to be decommissioned, and he likes to be involved in the case, as they say, on a committee's list, he has the option to connect with meetings through telecommunications. So he is a conclusion, can take a stand. Of course, it will be in the power of each member of the Parliament whether he chooses to take advantage of this possibility in their presence, and he has legitimate reasons to do so. I don't think there's any reason to worry that the General is going to the ice in terms of the Labour Protection Act or anything like that, if that concerns a senator. I don't see it. Above all, it rests on trusting members of the council, that they should choose for themselves and appreciate what is wise to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u33	A respectable president. What working people and workplaces have learned from Covid is that when we experience symptoms of illness, we should not be tough, arrive at our workplace, and risk exposure to people. This is one of the great lessons that will likely change the way people do work in the future. At the same time, the distance between work and home is in a sense made possible by telecommunications. There is something we need to be careful about. This is not a question of whether OSH law is broken at the General Assembly but whether we, as the workplace, are going to maintain the culture of disease and to attend a meeting or to set down sick children in front of YouTube and take one committee meeting. It's not a matter of forcing senators to do this. It's a question of not opening up this possibility that, that I think, a bad example. When people are sick or are at home caring for sick children, they are on sick leave and should not work. I understand the thought behind this, but each member of the council is just not the essential thing that he has to attend all meetings. Therefore, all members of the committee are armed men. If that replacement fails, any group of members can call a member of the council to fill the subject's seat. We are not essential to working when we are ill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u34	Mr. President. I would have thought it would be good to open up the possibility of being at home, of course, for health and disease reasons, if they are present, as they are in the present situation, or because of possible illness, that it's the good thing that instead of being tough and showing up at work, you can join a board on telecommunications from home. That is exactly what we want, especially in the present circumstances and are encouraged to do, and has recently been introduced to information that people have the slightest suspicion that they are sick, either because they have minor symptoms or because someone around them may be ill, they do not show up at work. While there is such doubt, e.g. It would be good for the individual to be able to do his job through telecommunications equipment. Of course, it is true that if such a situation arises, it would be appropriate for a member of the body, his deputy, or the members of the council to resolve it. Why don't we trust the partners to choose the best? That. that either be present or that the council nomits a person, if available, or if you think it is best for a member of the council to continue his duties through telecommunications, he will do so. This suggests that it is not necessarily our responsibility to have human understanding in these matters. In case of a moment. A senator, however, objects that this warrant is there, that it has its own sickness, or that its victims are being held as an expression of the possibility of attending a telecommunication, is likely to be viewed by the committee. But I'd assume that's what. A senator would be significantly less inclined to think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u35	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying that I'm an importer in this case. I was on the presiding committee when the case was settled, so I support the case. On the other hand, I wanted to explain my motives to that excellent case because it is the lowest common denominator that all committees could agree on. That is not to say that all of them agree on how it is best to act. Hv. 2.m. That's the north side. and a dignified president, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, studied the main points of his speech earlier in his speech, and I think it is unnecessary to double what was presented there. However, it identified the bill as having the authority to use telecommunications technology to attend a committee meeting that is conditional. This condition is what I want to make for publicity and just go outside the box on what it is that we really need to do. This means that telecommunication technology, such as technology in general, is something the General should have ambition to make the most of, not because it's hip and cool or cool, but because it's good for the job. This will improve the prospects of the Generals for their well - being. This increases the prospects of local Parliaments and members in general to participate in the work without having to, for example, beneficiaries. for transportation or for longer time away from family, friends, environment, and voters than they need. For some reason, at the 2008 Parliament, I am quite shy about doing best, and sometimes I wonder what happened to the attitude that happened shortly after the collapse of 2008 and was then in the past, in some slightly more fancy way, that Iceland would be the best use of technology because we had full access to it. There is no reason for Iceland to become the best at making, say car production, or something like industry. To cope successfully with some things, communities need to be large. Information technology is not part of that, a respectable president. So the size or number of people in our country has nothing to do with how much we can do in that sector. All we need to do is keep our attitude, make full use of technology, and realize that the opportunity is exactly what it takes. Hv. In his talk, a senator mentioned that some senators feel that this is not to be overwhelming, as it was said. That's exactly what I wondered about, a respectable president. Why is this fear of overindulging in as simple as using modern technology to be a member of Congress? Where does that shyness come from? What's so risky about using computers? During this term, I've had to reason with other members of Congress on whether or not to allow computers in a Senate hall, a respectable president, and always pretend to be an instrument. It's a tool, I'm using a computer now, I use a computer in a gym, I actually use a computer to most of the less jobs within and out of Congress. Why are we always trapped in some view that using technology is somehow dangerous and dangerous? When you ask this, a respectable president, there's very little truth about real evidence, there's some emotional activity that you need to learn to do well and stuff like that. We learn to do this well by doing this. That's how you learn from computers and other technology, using it. Hv. Senators and members of the Parliament may not take some special study to make us ready for more telecommunications in the future. And if so, how would such a study be? Well, it's in the process of using technology and nothing else. There are no more sciences to use that technology than what is involved in using it. Why don't we just use it? Why Must There Be Limitations? They are, by permission of the President: ▪... when it comes to specific matters, such as health or health benefits, transportation problems or illness, or when meeting outside the council's work programme. Why? Why can it not be just a general authority that the president of a committee or more of a committee, regardless of what people might like to do with it, just depending on whether it's good or not? Then it can be taken into account that some people find more enjoyable or comfortable or that something to be at some particular location, for reasons that are not obvious to me, rather than using the technology to attend telecommunications. I'd appreciate it if we were to try to develop a little more logical in such decisions in general. I also have to point out the opportunities that are taken off the table with this. Sure you can dream, and I dream that one day this special restriction will be removed. But I wondered what the discussion will be like back then. Does this not just mean that people are asking, "Why wasn't this done in 2020? " I don't think there'll be any answers then unless they didn't want to go too far, want to go to some extreme or something. I'm not going to copy any members of the council, so they won't take it so that I'm putting words in their mouths. It's the feeling I get from my speech, that it's something dangerous, something dangerous. It's just nothing, a respectable president. As far as I can hear, it's as good as conjugal the opinion of all the senators who have participated in telecommunications that they've been doing quite well, not entirely snooped, but generally quite well and better, as people get used to technology, learn to use it, learn to use headphones, so I now mention it here for history's history and more in that way. Technology will only improve, careers will ask for the word and the like. This is not a problem, a respectable president, and has not been a real problem so far, even though most senators are using this technology for the first time, at least to the extent that we've been doing it this year. Some of us here at the council are more accustomed to this technology than others because we have used it to communicate with foreign countries or even in a game. In Covid, it became known to have a party online, where people gather at the digital bar and enjoy it. This technology is useful, a respectable president. It is simply useful in games and activities and in daily life. There's nothing wrong with using it more. There is nothing of concern about this, it is not too urgent to create general authority for the Republic's Supreme Council to use the technology to the extent that the General Assembly or its committees seem. There's no danger, and it's just the same old shyness about innovation, which is sadly characteristic of the General for some romantic, emotional reason that I'm in the mystery, though, of course, I feel similar feelings from time to time. What I do, however, in that case, a respectable president, is that I ignore those feelings if I find and know arguments that numb romantic feelings. We're not here to dress up and come together in some room. It's part of the job and good and good, I'm not complaining about it, I'm just saying, that's not the point of coming here. We're here to work well on legislation, to examine the ideas that come out, to investigate the criteria, to talk to the outside person, to put on committee opinion, to give speeches and votes. None of this, a respectable president, none of this, requires that two senators ever meet in person, nothing. This work can be carried out entirely by modern technology without even meeting two members of the Parliament. I'm not suggesting it here and now, it'd be too bad for a lot of people. Councilmen imagine it with good results, at least to the extent that they are comfortable with it. But I'm just pointing out that technology is that it's technically possible without any harm to the job. The way the senators want to conduct their work, how they feel at work, and all that, may well be, but not in order to do their job. Even voters can be held online because they are public. There's no need for a vote at the Council, at least not at all, as a matter of fact, when we choose presidents and likes, but even that idea is no more than that people can look at each other's buttons. The technical challenges, a respectable president, are not exactly any. I'm not going to say that there are absolutely none because I'm sure this calls for a change of work, e.g. with members of the Parliament and in some way altered the work of members of the council as we know it, but more serious it isn't. I feel that when we're making decisions like this, we shouldn't be stuck in the way things have been being, but how they can be better, and they can improve this by having a general authority as the president of the committee or more of the committee can use to maintain telepathy for the reasons that the committee wants. Also, I would like to consider some of the ways in which this could improve the work of the Parliament in a much larger context. The General Assembly of the Icelanders is here in this house in Reykjavík. In fact, I think it is formally in P.P. 150, if I recall correctly, but at any rate in the territory that people call 101, and a lot of complaints about, in my opinion, that the Council is a relatively welcomer of Reykjavík, and that no wonder because here we are, yes, and even members of the Parliament who work long at the World Council and are from the country, volunteer for the country, owned or live in the country, must be here in Reykjavík and, of course, lose certain ties with their territory. Any telecommunications would fix this. Let's have a little dream here. What if there was a proper organization at the General Assembly, where votes would usually be in one day of the week, what? What if we could actually organize conference talks so that they follow some kind of algorithm or greeting or anything so that members of the council could organize their talks and hold them at some particular time, but perhaps during committees for two, three days a week as a whole? If so, members of the council would need to arrive here to be reduced to perhaps two, three days a week instead of four. I think it would remember that. This, of course, depends on more extensive changes, but we are not able to make those changes without a general authority here. Now I'm going to go further, I hope that I haven't missed all members of Congress, what if some sort of telecommunications were held at a telecommunication or by some kind of telecommunication? Now I know that there are some of them. Senators are snooping, as I am approaching the blasphemy of the council. So, what really exists as a standoff? What is the goal of giving a debate? Yes, it is to promote viewpoints. Is there anything about the Internet that prevents it? No, a respectable president, however, is the Internet that enables it. It is the Internet that makes it possible for any citizen in Iceland, or as good as anyone, to monitor the conversation live on the phone and to look back in time. That's a good, respectable president, that's a computer technology that's used to do that, for their work. There is no reason and no real technical reason why we stand at this point in this house to say these things. I could tell these things into this camera that I have in front of me, I could use my phone to do that. Let's go further, Mr. Honorable President, the blasphemy is not over. What about votes? Why do we have to come into this room, into this hall in this house in Reykjavík, to vote? These are not secret votes. If something were to go wrong in security or something like that, the senator would simply call and report it. My vote is not quite all right, would be the reason. A senator says and then it would just be fixed. This is no problem, a respectable president, except that the General Assembly must always create some problem to hold on to some old, romantic, emotional picture of how things are so natural, and now I hope that a certain attitude has gone further than this, and I find it so boring that the Allied Council, which is the highest power of the Republic, has the right to be one of the least of the ways in these areas. It is not just in this point that I ponder over the question, but more often as I work here, because I see opportunities and the question is, Why aren't we the best at this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u36	In the spirit of the romance presented in the senator's speech, the president wants to remind us that the matter of Congress is Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u37	Mr. President. I didn't intend to extend this discussion, end up at the top. Secretary of the budget is pulling out of here to make an order for his case, but I think I'll have to bear my hand for the head of the Generals. I don't think it's right to adjust it to some ancient attitude, nonverbal evasion, or the fear of a general assembly of innovation and change. It is not that Piratars have the exclusive right to be in the modern field and to know how to use computers. It's just not like that. A general body of well-history experiences, and I still consider it to be progressive. The General Assembly was the first assembly to record recorded at talks instead of having them written down. When the present vote system and direction came into existence, it was the most prominent of all. It is true that such equipment has been replaced, but it is being done exactly as it is now. In the past few years, the general council has invested a lot of money in Iceland's light-leading pool. It's not retreating, it's not ancient. That is exactly the most important foundation that the entire nation can take advantage of modern technology in these matters. We're investing a fast we're talking about software upgrades, like what we're talking about. A senator knows, a new senator's riddle, et cetera. It is in preparation to completely replace the digital equipment in this room and bring it to the best known and, indeed, the whole room, hopefully. This is also in good shape with the government's emphasis, the focus of the Commission, on Digital Iceland, and what it is now called, as a financial minister, could tell us things about. More recently, we have invested much in new equipment for the past few months, certainly because of the pandemic, or we have been encouraged, but the ability of the Generals to maintain good telecommunications in quality equipment, etc. Why any restrictions? asks why. Senator. Is that just a back-up or a conservative thing? No, there's been some grammatical evidence that certain things are difficult to solve at such telecommunications, e.g. the treatment of confidential information, the confidential talk that may be felt by political media, the welcome of visitors who have confidential information, and the like. This makes it hard for us to imagine something other than that there will be a future combination of telecommunications and traditional meetings. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u38	A respectable president. I'm gonna start with the confidentiality. I can't see how it can be technical. Of course, the Internet software in general has security needs and needs security in some way. This is not necessarily done by personal contact. All the members of the council that I know about and probably all the guests have smartphones that are, unfortunately, regularly abused to take a recording of people without being noticed, something that is actually illegal in most cases, that I think, and unfortunately all too common bad. But I'm pointing out that there is absolutely nothing to be said about a guest or a senator shooting a meeting with his phone today. I hope that doesn't happen, I don't know what happened, but there's no less confidence in keeping telecommunications and thereby ensuring safe communication over the Internet with the local encryption minister and the like. Of course you have to be careful, but it just needs to be done. It is not beyond the ability of the Generals or other institutions to do so. With regard to a defense debate. A senator and a respectable president, I don't mean that the Council is the worst at this, but I call out that we're the best, that we do as well as we can at any point. It is now beginning to update software at the General Assembly and a variety of technology, which is very good. That's a very positive step. It is a lot of things the World Council does that are exemplary, and I could give a different talk about it in particular. But what I notice is that it's being done this first time it could've done sooner. It also turns on the Generals' operation, not only that we use buttons here, which are nice, or that we use software to run a meeting meeting, which is fine and good and cool and good as well as good software as I can see. But when it comes to such events as going to a committee meeting, I ask: " Why do we need to be in the flesh at a meeting of committees after all? It's not for technical reasons. At least I disagree. A senator and a respectable president of this matter. That argument simply doesn't make me feel like a decent, respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u39	The right to counter will be enlarged to financial and financial debates, i.e. It must be ensured that representatives of all government groups can give a reply to a minister's speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u40	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill for the budget of 2021, paragraph 151 of the legislature. According to the 42nd. The Constitution shall provide a budget for the General when it meets and in Article 25. Conventional law states that the bill should be submitted at the first meeting of the fall council. The financial bill is based on a financial programme for the 2021/2025 submitted at the same time as the bill. That is different from what is expected in the law, but this is in harmony with what we have already decided. The bill is presented on the basis of revised financial policy adopted at the beginning of September. As noted, the unprecedented situation of March last year as a result of a pandemic crown virus, and it was inevitable to reevaluate the established financial policy of the year 2018,2022, where all major presidents had smiled. In addition, in view of these unusual circumstances, it was decided that the contributions of financial programs would be postponed. In the years that followed, the epidemic that still does not provide the end will have a dramatic impact on the lives and livelihood of the people. The financial bill now being presented continues on the course set out by the government's counterrequisite actions in the current year, focusing on extensive and intensive measures in support of households and businesses. On the other hand, the main resistance will be the full application of the financial situation, guided by the rapid escape of Icelandic society from this most expensive crisis of modern economic history. The financial bill reflects the objective of the government to counteract the deep downstairs in the economy we now face. It has an important financial strength, which is the result of the fine results that have been achieved in recent years and enables us to continue building up the Kingdom in spite of difficult circumstances. Under such circumstances, it becomes clear how much more important it has been to use the good years to benefit from them. The fact that government funds have been run well at the top of the economy and that debt is reduced now makes it possible for us to face the changed situation with full force and without severe surgery. A respectable president. The wealth has taken a heavy blow. The economic crisis has led to the growth of the government's income at a further hundred billion dollars. During the current year at the same time as expenses have increased, especially as a result of increasing unemployment and government counterwelves. A combined effect on public survival is that there are examples in Iceland's economic history. A budget bill in 2021 suggests that a hold on the budget of over 264 billion will be won. or about 8.6% of gross domestic product. Total budget is expected to be 1,036 billion. During the year, an increase of 118 billion per year. The wealth of the state's funds, however, will be intertwined, but the total wealth of the state will be estimated to be about 72 billion dollars. or 137 billion lower than expected. The initial equation of the year will be 6.8% of gross domestic product. Marked prices and inevitable increases in debt are followed by estimated salinisation. The debt of the state's funds will grow tremendously over the next two years, despite the premium of national interest forecasts of 3.9% next year, as the economy has been exposed to massive production losses. In fact, it looks like the shock is going to get a lot worse if the next few years become unchanged, and it is assumed that the debt of state funds will be about 50% of the gross domestic product by the end of a financial programme according to a law on public finances. In the short term, governments have set out a policy to support the economy until the economy is restored, as is shown in a revised financial policy. It presents goals for the development of state funds and government up until 2022. The policy assumes that there will be no more than 9% of gross domestic product in the coming year and that current plans will ensure that the rest of the funds will be within these limits. This means that despite the lower income of the state's budget, expenses will not be cut down next year but will be increased in order to meet up with temporary and unemployment due to the epidemic. In next year's budget, contributions to key issues will continue to increase. It reflects the determination of the government to protect the transfer systems, the vital structure of the infrastructure and the services of the State. However, there will not be an additional or increased budget than those related to the direct counterimbursement or the situation caused by the chorionic virus epidemic. Costs of other injury will have to be financed within the current framework. Thus, budget changes are reflected primarily by the response to the epidemic and its consequences in the 2021 budget. It is estimated that the increase in donations related to the Korean epidemic is less than 31 billion in the coming year. Thereby, contributions due to increasing unemployment increase, which is estimated to be 23 billion dollars. over the next year, which was estimated in the current budget of the year to be about 50 billion in 2021. There will be 27 billion investments in infrastructure, intelligence, and knowledge, but everything is expected to spend more than 100 billion on such projects during a financial program in line with the government's policy of supporting the economy until professional life has taken over. In addition to other major investment and construction projects already planned according to previous programmes, such as the construction of a new land hospital, previous transport initiatives, and the construction of a new office building for the General Assembly. In next year's budget, health and welfare matters will remain in the foreground. Health contributions increase by more than 15 billion, apart from changes in salary and prices. Thus the health system will continue to be strengthened with the goal of improving the quality of the services regardless of the economy, patient payment will be reduced, and nursing facilities will continue to be applied. The construction process of a new land hospital will continue and will be spent at nearly 7 billion on the project for a future year of financial gain. In addition, it is planned to spend 2 billion on other health - care investments in connection with the former government investments and building efforts. Since 2017, contributions to social, housing, and insurance services have increased substantially and weigh them on the payer side of the budget bill. They're 26% of the total wage. Among the main focus of the season is the increase in the income income market for the elderly, the prolongation of birthworm, which will be 12 months in 2021, the increased stock productions for the building of rent houses for the income market, as well as the payment of shared loans that will go into effect on the 1st of November, but such loans are designed to make it easier to obtain their first apartments. At that time, education has been enhanced at both the college and the college levels that have been achieved by an ambitious, grammatical program. Its aim is to use Icelandic in all instruments and software of the world's largest technology systems. Energy and cultural contributions are expected to increase by less than 6 billion in 2021. Of these, 2 billion are due to the estimated number of students due to the effects of the Korean virus epidemic as well as to the new educational education laws on education. It will then be 1 billion spent at the university level in line with the policy that Iceland will achieve an average OECD of university funding. A respectable president. New creations and research have been given a high priority, and in this context, it is called a Krea Institute, an investment fund designed to promote the structure, growth, and competitiveness of the economy. In addition, the presence of companies for research and development projects has been approximately tripled since 2017, but this financial support is expected to increase to 7.3 billion in budgetary Regulation 2021. The estimated contributions to innovation are nearly 26 billion dollars. and have an increase from year to year, about 9 billion from the budgets of the current year. In addition, contributions in 2020 are expected to increase by less than 7 billion from budgets, which can be explained to the majority of the action of the Korean epidemic. In addition to the contributions made to the work Digital Iceland and Digital Iceland Task Services, it is promoted, but it operates in cooperation with the government's institutions. Increased contributions are made to improve government communication and services through simple processs of payment and further digital solutions. We are in the middle of a task to make large contributions from public service digitally and have recently opened a new site for that purpose. We realize that next year a smartphone program will be available to you, allowing you to access the Web site electronically. In my Constitution, there is a new bill on a digital mailbox, and there is a great deal of work to adapt the legal environment and solve the technical aspects of these cases so that we can get big steps in the months and years ahead, toward a technical public government. It will not only simplify the process of spending and save time for people but also include a great improvement in the use of funds. The cost is evident for all concerned, agencies, and anyone who has to search there. Environmental events have been focused on the entire ideal period. These include climate action programme, land healing, and recovery of wetlands, as well as a high priority in reducing environmental policies and energy exchange support. By this time, additional donations will be devoted to the massive construction of the infrastructure at tourist locations as well as to increasing land management. Worldwide, nearly 24 billion estimates are made to the environment during the coming year, with a total of 3.4 billion dollars. increase from year to year. In addition, new donations are used as a result of collections of 800 million in rural areas. K. A respectable president. The government has reduced budgets in its terms, and emphasis is put on continuing to reduce the tax burden of households and enterprises, with changes in income tax taxes, extensions of tax returns, increase of the tax deficiency target of tax taxes and further taxes for the third sector. Substantial changes in income taxes are already legalized and will be fully implemented next year. It consists of a three-stage recovery of the tax system with a much lower base step than before. By means of a new tax system, provisions are going to increase substantially, but the change will reduce over 14 billion in 2021. At the same time, the value of the second two parts of the income tax change is a total reduction in income taxation by 21 billion per year. That amounts to more than 10% of the government's income from this tax base. To another tax base, an insurance bill, which is normally in the discussion. It has also dropped considerably during the election season and becomes the tax burden of enterprises at 8 billion dollars. less next year than it would have been. Added to this reduction, there is a temporary decrease in insurance fees to meet the impact of contracted pay increases in the labour market that will be met despite the collapse of the epidemic. There was a temporary reduction of 4 billion. So in 2021, insurance costs will become 12 billion lower than if the price had not been passed. In the context of collective agreements, there will also be implementation of tax-based measures aimed at promoting and supporting companies for investments to promote innovation and competitiveness of the economy, focusing on green transformation and climate targets. At the same time, tax incentives will be considered to stimulate the involvement of the public in the commercial world with the stock market. It is also worth referring to the urgency of the decrease in already established bank tax, as well as the amount of reimbursement of the enterprise's research and development costs being doubled. I have high expectations that tax action to encourage investments can result in increased activity next year. According to the Association of Business Life, it may remember billions and may have even been mentioned as billions. I think that in this context, it is important that we do not look for too short a time in the process of making the move and give the most necessary effort to make an investment. The larger the investment projects, the longer the period of pregnancy, they have generally had to have. These measures should not be tailored so narrowly that it is not realistic for those who want to use this attempt to do so within the time frame. Yet, we cannot help but look for ways to increase our activity when we lack it. One of the things that stand out for the interest of the year is how much industry's investment has run out and is still shrinking. This problem is not merely solved by increasing public investments because it is an independent problem that jobs should not invest. It will by no means be reimbursed on its own by public investment. Usually, the public investment must be sufficient to keep the necessary structures on which we are built and build up for the future and beyond the writing we have to face. And even if we're making an effort to increase production in the public sector, of course we're also looking to it to be useful to society. Let me mention in this regard the ideas of laying a sea cable where we're looking at the entire economy and putting on a sea cable to ensure that there are communications timbers in Iceland. Without a doubt, it will benefit not only the public in a direct way but also the whole society. The private sector will open up new opportunities for that investment. I wanted to mention this specifically, and we'll discuss it in an independent plagion when it comes to how we're going to handle the tax resources discussed here. So if you're going to take a little closer to that, we're primarily talking about the expiry rules of the tax law in this regard. A respectable president. If specific measures are overlooked for the Korean virus epidemic, next year taxation will be about 34 billion dollars. Less than would have been if there hadn't been a government taxation in the season. Specific measures due to the epidemic are measured around 17 billion next year, and all of this is about 52 billion if you want to try to obtain a number in this context. But I always like to think that when we try to measure the extent of the tax change, we watch it in some type of double context, but of course we believe that with lower taxes we will be able to stimulate and create that will result in increased land production and that the government's loss of income will not be exactly the number that is below but will become new, stronger income stocks. Nevertheless, the changes in taxation over the past few years have greatly reduced the ban on people's income, the changes in income taxation that I have considered here, that have already been legalized. These last steps take place for the year. This change was a key action in closing collective agreements and has greatly improved the provision of human income but, at the same time, improved sectoral competitiveness. Also, during the past few years, tax changes have been working on the environmental objectives of the government. I specifically mention the energy exchange. A respectable president. At the beginning of the season, there was a balance in terms of government affairs. The release was a premeditated section of the government's finances, and it was used as a reversal to reduce debt and pay off an unfunded Penitentiary. This gave them room for application. The government was a policy for a significant improvement in welfare systems, a major ininvestment ininvestment, a review of tax systems, and ambitious environmental goals. With contributions to most causes, there is an ever - increasing growth rate as there is greater scope for spending. I've allowed me to put it this way in this hall that when we discuss considerable tax growth in recent years, we need to examine the overall picture. At the same time, we were reducing debt and making plans for the future. We may be more inclined to look to see if we are improving our expenses in a sustainable way, not just focusing on expenses for a name or a percentage. I think it's time to get close that way, and that's the way I wanted to remember. Our main concern is the community, the cover - up of social projects that we plan to finance. In this context, it is often a joy to be able to increase donations to individual ethnic groups, to be better concerned with these projects, to achieve more fully our goal of caring for our community. Of course, we do not have government business in order to get some rest, such as the company drives itself to give its owners some profit. Far from it. But let us keep in mind, as we now look ahead to an enormous stream of sliding, not just in the coming year, but in the future, that we need to regain our ability to care for society. It is not there right now, and we need to take a loan so that we can live up to our willingness to care for our assignments. We cannot base our future on loans. Rather, we need to regain our ability to sustain ourselves in a sustainable way under social projects. That is the major work that we now face, and we will discuss it more closely as we consider the financial program. We have spread the fruits of long economic growth for this purpose. We lost debt, we strengthened the public ministry, we established a social support network, and we reduced our taxes to the benefit of home and business. These measures and measures have enabled us to cope with the current economic breakdown caused by the ronovirus epidemic with as much force as we can see by resorting to massive counterweight measures. If people realize how important it is for us today, they must aim to restore a trust fund to the position of responding to major events. That must be a goal. It is clear that this project will not be solved without any intervention, and it will be discussed in more detail with the financial programme each year during the programme period. This work will not be solved in this discussion, but it will be a permanent project for the next few years. What I believe is the most reliable way to achieve this is by action that increases national production. The increased economic production, both in the public sector and in the private sector, is the premise that living in Iceland will remain among the best known. The public investment in infrastructure, education, innovation, and research is very effective, but at the present time, it is evident that most of the problem is that employment is taking over in a strong way. We need to make sure that when the pandemic is over, the fight is necessary. The public plays a key role in creating the right conditions, using the motivations I've been discussing here, directing men into the paths of higher value creation. It will provide solid support for a competitive society where prosperity is built on a powerful human and powerful economy. A respectable president. I request that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. The budget board.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u41	Mr. President. V.E.G. Minister's not in an envious position, I'll figure it out. Unemployment is our main concern today. Today, some 20,000 Icelanders are out of work, and their numbers are increasing. I wondered, in my counter-reguage to Minister, if it could not have been done better in the government's investment and building campaign. We see that only 1% of the land's production is due to be successful. Likewise, the bill allows unemployment to decline only by 1 percent next year. Again, I raise this question: Is that all we need to do? Of course, I know that the rooster is great, but at this time, it may be wise to spend a little more money to make money. By creating jobs, through investments and innovations, government funds gain additional income.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u42	A respectable president. For many reasons, it is important that we work hard in our investment. We've increased our investment levels here in the past. We made a special effort because we were looking for the good of public members to the State, and we decided to expand the transport process, and we have been on short - term food work. But here we indicate a much bigger investment project than before in the season, and we have an increase of about 1%. What I would like to point out is that there is not a small task - let's say that we're talking about an increase of 1% but 2% - adding another 30 billion on the operating side next year. This is not just a matter of survival next year and financing; it is also a matter of putting these projects all in one year, in 12 months.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u43	Mr. President. So I can understand the highest. Minister so that if the job life, the innovation sector, etc. Thinks they can find these tasks, that's the best. A minister to make a considerable increase here? I know this needs to be a realistic and profitable project, but there's plenty of it. I wondered, " Should I not take a good look at it, in the case of the committee, to increase my investment package? ' I feel that 1% increase in land production in investment campaigns is too small to face this deep crisis that everyone is aware of is very serious. We can also see that the addition to innovation is only 0.3% of national production. Again, I reiterate that innovation is a magic word in a crisis, and for example, technology fund, it has believed that a number of projects meets its highest level, but all that remains to lie down on that project is the lack of funding. I wondered, " Is there no room for a minister to join us in making the effort to add a little bit when it comes to my investments? ' At the top. The minister agrees that the wheels of the industry need to be restored, and in this case we need to use our financial affairs in a more handsome way than this one does.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u44	A respectable president. I'd like to point something out on this. Only in public discussion have we found that people watch the public figures and say that they don't have anything to do with what we said they were going to do. That has even been true. with the way people classize investments. We have been very open to view it as an investment in the future to put money into the competition fund, in innovation projects, and so on, even though it would not come into an investment in the Habitat. More is seen in it by means of fasting items and such items. When I say it will be an assignment to produce 30 billion people in such projects, I'll build on the information coming from within the system. I call attention to the fact that we are, for example, someone. to extend the transport plan as it was done at the council, even when the council lost a tremendous amount of money when it was released by the council. It was, in effect, a evasive force. [[The president calls.]] Other than that, I believe that we are doing very well in the language and language. A senator, however, notes that it can be considered on a committee altogether.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u45	A respectable president. It is now said that the lowest improvements under pay will be to be raised. If we take the percentage of the biographies, it's an increase of more than 7% in the lowest salary. However, the remuneration that the Minister is applying at the next year is 3.6%. I'm asking, how do you figure this? How does he get that it's exactly the same for the pensioners as the biographer deal, when it should be twice as much? I ask if he is willing to correct it on the grounds that the inflation is now about 3.5% and has suffered a massive fall, so everything has grown dramatically.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u46	A respectable president. Yes, this is a work here on the basis of the law that states that improvements should be made in accordance with the overall next year's pay changes, expectations, or if inflation is higher than expected. Today, general pay increases that are expected to take effect next year are higher than those expected of inflation, and therefore the pay factor is looked forward to. So this is, as we count in the Ministry of finance, just in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u47	A respectable president. It's kind of weird. It says in the budget bill that next year's paybox will be 5%. Was it some kind of writing? How, then, can this be compatible? It is being said that once all the tax returns, it will be 10,000 calls per month at the end of the month. In the last tax reduction, the discount was also reduced. Is that right now? Or does it stand to rise according to an index? And what about the personal discount? How does he get along with this? It is used in this system that a certain amount is given by the left hand, and much is withdrawn from it with the right. I wonder. This was done in last taxes with the personal discount: Does that also exist today?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u48	A respectable president. The rule I referred to shows how generalized changes have occurred under collective contracts. That's the standard you're looking at. This means that the benefits of social security do not increase according to pay requirements, if they happen in the community. So the 5% as a dog. A senator refers to the market as a whole for the added remunerations. In terms of the income tax, it is fundamental that the personal discount has maintained its value. Through this tax change, we have proclaimed that we will be assured of the person's discount, so it will rise in accordance with the prices of this change, thus calling the recording of the three-stage system and the reduction of the bottom level in the coming year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u49	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Foreman of finance. I just want to get into this huge debt of government and government and the need to process it and balance it in public affairs. As we have seen, a key factor in the development of economic growth is that in the coming years. V.E.G. Minister. What is the main focus of this bill on budgeting for future economic growth? What measurable goals are behind them? Besides, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister for new forecasts of unemployment that are considerably darker than previously predicted. This will likely mean taking loans to cover the pay of unemployment that have reached the highest level. Is this dark forecast going ahead, how will it affect the survival of the Kingdom Fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u50	A respectable president. I think I misspoke during my last answer when I spoke of the personal discount. I was talking about the tax-free zone, that they were insure. This request. What is it in the laws that prepare economic growth for the future, and what measurable goals do we have? So economics now that it's not science, it's more social science, and it can't be put in an inch bag on economic theories and say we get it out exactly. But what we believe in is increased oxygen, providing creative branches, such as. Increased support will come back. We believe in research and evolution. We believe that we are in a technological revolution and need to take care of a change in the public sector by investing in it. We believe that the infrastructure investment is very important for the future so that Iceland will become more competitive and that all of this will eventually come back if the curse is also set into place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u51	Mr. President. We're running out of time and we're running out of time. A minister did not bring up my question about unemployment, this dark image, and the effects on the survival of a government fund. He might come on in a second answer. In 2025, the target is for a baseless equation, not an overall equation. So the budget will be fired with a tilt, and the difference between the equation and the overall balance may be considerable, interest costs high, we have to take a high loan, etc. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister: What effect might this have on our survival, and why? V.E.G. There may also be other things I wanted to come to. It's the death of tax pennies, i.e. 17.8 billion k. and an increase of 741 billion. K. ... fromthenewst where I'm from. Why are things so bad, chief? Minister, to get that enormous amount down? [[The president calls.]] Why is there so much written down on legitimate tax requirements?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u52	A respectable president. First only about the level of employment and the unemployment that is our primary project at this time. I think I've done well, even though I say so myself, for the first time, to set up a basic stage view, to be so in the field-of-view analysis, both pessimism and optimistic predictions, as well as a goal of developing new jobs in the private sector first and secondly. What if darker stage photos come true? That's bad news. This will require more adjustment. There's a question about the death of taxes. This is partly because a company that eventually goes off and then it just disappears all up and there's nothing in it to catch. But it's a very large joint, and I'm sure it'll go better into his stitches. It is true that the original equation is a different number than the total balance in 2025, but the total house is heading for some 60 billion in this program. [[The president calls.]] But it's at least First stage of recovery. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's absolutely basic. If we do, the debt rate will stop getting worse. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u53	A respectable president. The public has a proper balance to meet the economy in a proper way without putting too much government funds into the background. As a result, inflation or intensification would result. On the other hand, by appropriate counterimportation measures, the balance of the state funds does not matter, for the measures should result in successful results that gradually recover. The same is true if inflation does not take off. That's when it really doesn't matter much. On the other hand, inappropriate counter measures prolong the crisis and reduce our quality of life. So I ask: It's 35 billion bucks. enough and are the actions that are made better than others? I guess the answer will be yes, but I look forward to hearing the argument. So I ask that there are a lot more opportunities to use, but the government seems to decide not to take them. I ask because under the civil law, the government should support its policy. I'm asking because this argument is missing. Why is 35 billion next year sufficient to meet the greatest decline in a century? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u54	A respectable president. It's just that we're saying that 35 billion is enough. We're saying that 260 billion is what it takes. 260 billion, not 35. It's just the investment. We say, " Despite the collapse of income,'we let our government funds go to a home. Compare this with another economic policy that was tested ten years ago, where people took a lot of tax measures to regain their income. They changed individual income taxes, raised insurance bills, made electricity taxes, and some other taxes in order to obtain income for the state's funds. We have a financial obligation not to do so. Similarly, there are 260 billion more than we have seen, and we are taking certain specific measures, such as the partial improvement process and the like. In particular, because it's taken out of here, the 35 billion, I think people will only have to think how much can be done over a twelve month period if we speak, for example. on practical projects. [[The president calls.]] What does the senator believe can be accomplished by means of a government fund in practical projects in 12 months? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u55	A respectable president. 35 billion are these special counter measures. This is made clear in the budget and budget. The other are the automatic rhythms to be resorted to and are only good economics and I commend the government for applying the right economic teachings that the State takes on this fluctuation in increasing unemployment with unemployment improvements, etc. If we take that aside, we will have some 35 billion special counter measures. It's clearly in the budget bill. I don't know why that's enough. Especially in view of the fact that when we set about 9 billion for innovation in spring, the demand for that money came out of proportion by the end of the summer. Now, for the next year, it has become a policy of government to make the exact amount proposed by the government in spring, but today the need is even greater than it was in summer. So I don't realize how 35 billion are enough. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to explain, but I can't find them in the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u56	A respectable president. Much of what we have been doing this year is major action on a scale, but it does not necessarily cost the government money. For example, consider the continuation of local pay, the procrastination of public payment. We increase the scope of the job life by more than the sole cost of a government fund is possibly loss because of failure to get through a difficult period of time and then financial expenses. Thus, the magnitude of the procedure must be determined at any given time. I'm just saying again: It's easy to stand here now and say, of course, just let the automatic rhythms work. But it's not probably the government does. It is our special decision to allow that very thing to happen. Many other governments are going other ways, and there have been other governments. It's a class factor to say that special actions are like this and the automatic fluctuation equations. [[The president calls.]] Still, it is a personal decision to allow this to go on like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u57	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Prehistoric finance minister. I just want to talk about investments on projects and projects. Now I'd think it would be most urgent to make the most of a short period of time. V.E.G. A minister has mentioned that it may be difficult to do so, but concern may turn to the fact that many public projects will not catch flight until after the time we hope we are going up the depression. The question is, What is the exact thing that man intends to do in the next 12 months? Is that list ready? It is really too late for public projects to begin in nine months, after 12 months. [[The president calls.]] Do people have conviction that they have enough work at first hour?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u58	A respectable president. Yeah, we can put in the list of projects that are behind those numbers. As I mentioned earlier, in some cases it would not all fall into the definition of Economics in financial bills of investment. But I'm saying it's a real challenge to get a lot more involved. We have, for example. it's been a little slower to plant everything we've financed in recent years. I'm just going to remind you that we've been trying to set priorities for projects that are ready, for things that are realistic, for things that are going on, for things that are worth the human effort, and for more production. These are things we've especially looked at. These are the practical projects. Then there are all the other matters that we consider as an investment in the community that are the injections for the competitive fund, the increased refunds, and the other aspects that we have allowed us to talk about as an investment in this regard. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u59	Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I'd like to go in after two. One major project in the maps is the bridge of an Alpha who has come to the fore as a private project. This project, if I understand correctly, is in itself ready but is probably delayed because it takes time to establish a private project. Would this be an example of an assignment that might be possible in the order of the task, using it in other areas? For investments in softer sectors, let's say, innovation and the like, I also ask: " Wouldn't it be wise to speed it up, e.g. The funding for Technical Development Fund, into Sturdy Crea, which was ablurable about 5,500 million, with funding right now just to start all these projects right away? That's what we need so much.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u60	A respectable president. I believe the Elfjörður Bridge is an example of a project that we should try to push, an excellent example at the moment. Senator. To what extent we should add even further with financial aid I cannot make a decision, but we have shown by our actions that we have a rich desire to increase our support there. We've already brought money back this year and are reassigning to the budget bill and financial programs in the years to come. It is only necessary to be careful not to be financing in the competition fund from year to year but to have rather progressive growth and to allow the funding to continue living for some year because others can find themselves in a more difficult position. And then I just want to remind you again that there is a job investment in Iceland that doesn't have and we need to spend more time discussing what we can do to get our companies back to invest. There will be a special bill on it here in the fall, but it's not the public investment in itself that screams at you after this plan is introduced, but the fact that professional life is not investing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u61	Mr. President. These funds do not increase jobs or put their arms around lost jobs. These are not the green revolutions that have been offered here, and the investments are too small. Why do I say that? As a result, the government's investment campaign accounts for 1% of land production, and it is not enough to meet one of the deepest depressions in 100 years. The environmental improvement is 0.1% of national product and the addition to innovation is 0.3%. It's too small and too close, Mr. President. We need to do better to get our business wheels back on track, and in this case we need to use the money in a more handsome way than this one does. I realize that the balance of government funds is great, but it is justified in my mind to have it greater so that we can get out of the deep waves in which the Icelandic economy is present. Of course, eventually it will be published and the economy will take over for a long time, but now it is the time to use the terms of the money in a handsome way when it comes to green, investment, innovation, and public service. Unemployment is our greatest problem today. There's poison in the bones of the Icelanders. Today, some 20,000 Icelanders are out of work. It's going to be about 25,000 next Christmas. We need to use every means we can get on the job, but in this financial bill, I think it will only drop by 1 percent. There's not enough in the situation we're dealing with, Mr. President. We need to contribute to professional opportunities. We need to trust the wood and the public infrastructure, many of which were in considerable trouble for Covid. There are 20,000 people without jobs, but there have been fewer jobs in the labour market. There have been a total of 20,000 jobs in the labour market, except for the unemployed, which is the proportion of people in the labour market. To put that number in perspective, we have 20,000 jobs combined in Akureyri, Eastern Europe, and Western worlds, with unemployment to 30,000 people, as we have heard, and we can add a sad comparison of Smokejanestown. There's not enough work here in investments. V.E.G. The minister has said that this number, which he plays here, is 1% of national production, will take into account the tasks he can take into account. Then I'll ask why. Chairman of the budget committee and Minister - if we find any further work, if our unions come to the budget and say they can do more, or the innovation or the government - if we are not ready to accept it with joy and to ensure funding for the projects that create interest and employment. Investment is something I'm quite worried about. I also worry about the unemployment benefits, and we've been over it repeatedly in this room that they're too low. I know that the Icelandic state is putting a lot of money on unemployment, which, of course, takes into account this massive unemployment but expects people to live at more than 1000,000 dollars. After the end of the income-related period, Mr. President, it is not acceptable. We should take steps to temporarily increase our basic employment benefits. This place sucks. Of course, everyone knows losing a job sucks. Of course, it is a major economic blow, but it also has social and even health - related challenges for the individual and family. We need to do better with this large group. There are already too large groups that have to live at 250,000,300,000 bucks, disability, parts of older citizens, etc. Of course, we must not increase the number of people in Iceland who are forced to live at 240, that is too low, and we all know this room. I do not share any concerns that have been heard that by raising unemployment rates, they will reduce the willingness of people to look for employment. There is a discussion that we have taken before and is taken in many parts of the world, but when there is no job, that is not the case. I'm getting closer from the other direction. I want us to lighten up with families who have lost their jobs. I think it's time for us to move on, Mr. President. These are the main criticism issues in this regard that I am on the budget bill. Of course, it's interesting to examine tax changes. I've been a little cynical about the idea that it's part of the budget that this is about to tax the actual growth of capital income instead of making name fruit. It's a discussion we'll take later in the winter. It seems to me to be protecting capital owners, one group, against inflation. There are 2 billion earmarks marked for this tax reduction. Maybe I sound like a scratched record. I've been criticizing it and pointed out that the dollar number of hunting fees has been lowering, including Because of the system changes we've gone into. Sometimes it's said to me that hunting fees were even lower, if it had not been changed by that government of 2018. Then, to answer the criticism, when the government changed the law on the hunt fees of 2018, there was a review from the German Union, and it says, with the permission of presidents: the Icelandic Common Association protests a severe and planned reduction of hunting fees... This is criticism, which was a challenge at the time when these changes were made, and the fishing costs need to be higher. They were almost three times higher in the last time the government was in power. I know they're off-limits. I know it all right. But when the rate of hunting costs is about as high as the radio charge, we should consider what route we have made. We saw the figures that the article published itself during the day, on the seabed day, it was found that sales to the owners of export companies were some 62 billion in the last five years. Can you imagine 62 billion in five years? There are, of course, non-employment payments, except for the profits of their companies, except for the increase in their stocks, and outside the market if they sell these shares. So annual remunerations go directly into the pockets of a developer and his family, and these have become higher than the fishing fees of some years. We only see the centenarian, again I'm comparing the dollar, and I've been paying for fishing from year to year, despite the substantial profits in this article. In fact, for the past five years, the prosperity of the fishing industry was 200 billion. Of course, I want the fishing road to go well, but I still think it's fair that it's very large, I'm primarily talking about the big fishing industry, paying a higher price for this access to one of the world's most productive fishing grounds. That's what this fundamental question is, and I'll mention it in this context, because it's related to the money potential in the Icelandic state and, of course, we need all our money to face this crisis. I agree with those who have said that now is not the time to raise taxes, and we really shouldn't be doing that. We should, rather, lower taxes to stimulate. We're supposed to spit in some places, even lower taxes. I'm concerned about the little companies that are rarely spoken of as the spine in Icelandic employment. There are companies with perhaps one, two, three, four, five employees, these are the dictators, industrialists, hair shops, accounting agencies, this is an incredibly diverse operation, and somehow we need to lighten her. These are restaurants, of course, which are at particular risk of Covid, artists, etc. Somehow we need to get to these groups better than they do here. I'm a little worried about this. We need to expand our nets and think of certain groups and territories. The Southnes are areas that I am quite worried about. It has reached the age of 20% unemployment. I was able to deal with artists and people who work in cultures, entertainers, they have repeatedly pointed out that they are experiencing a complete drop of income and have actually not found a way in this operation so that we should just listen to the people in the hideout. Of course I know people are trying to do their best, and I know that. Secretary of finance is not in an envious position. I'm not gonna act like I am. I know this is a tough situation and I know it's something no one saw before, this tremendous blow in the Icelandic economy. It may be nice to review the measures the government has taken. Some things have gone well and other things have not worked, but we see a partial improvement process that seemed to work, so I now commend it. I'm impressed with everyone working the campaign that's being extended. Such points need to be drawn better into the light. The National Bank published a specific analysis of investments this year, and it was a bit interesting because there have been two, three sheep jars approved here. The Land Bank said a week ago, with President's permission: However, it is quite clear that the last effort to achieve large - scale investments has not yet been reached, whether public figures on national interest accounts or government financial figures, is not yet achieved by 17.1% between the previous half of 2019 and 2020. Here, the Lands Bank may not be what we expected, but we also need to consider reaching different groups in our society, to both genders, etc. Other measures taken by the government were debates, such as the reporting route. I haven't seen any other governments go to the end of lay-offs. I think that's a mistake. One of these major measures was to be 80 billion, but by the beginning of September, there were now 1 billion, according to the news I ran into, and the only borrower was Icelanda, or a common one. The delay of tax pay may take some time, but there was one fifth of it, the closing concentrations were at the end of summer only 8% of what was available, and the extended support loans were about 11%. The travel offering was too small. The market was small when the country was closed. Also, a critical person is expected to support the media because he was a bit peculiar. It was decided to strengthen the private media by 400 million for Covid. It was announced that the press should be strengthened by Covid, and then the government decided to take the previous 400 million and only strengthen them by 400 million. I hope it's pretty clear. There's something we need to consider with the media, and I think it's being done on this bill. The social action is not quite strong, especially when it comes to the problems of the unemployed, that is what we need to consider. I know, Mr President, the projects are gone, but there are so many things we can agree on. There is no one who really speaks against innovation or investment. But what we're arguing about here is the scope of investments and innovation. I sometimes take this as an example, because we get this information on a budget board, that Technological Development Fund, a key fund of innovation, has pointed out that the number of projects that get the highest rate in the fund's assessment of robust projects, is high. But many projects cannot be financed because of lack of money. These are not big numbers, I think it's 3 billion technical funds, something like that. They're putting more money on it and I'm celebrating it, so let's just keep it going, but here I think we should put more. In the summer, I saw reports that the Technical Development Fund believed that if it was given 5 to 6 to 6 billion, it would be sufficient to finance the busiest projects and meet the strict conditions for strength, for example. Of course, I think we should listen to these suggestions because we have a large budget, 1,000 billion. The numbers are getting big, and we may have gotten a little blind on them. But all of this counts. Finally, Mr. President, I'd like to take this together: we're in unprecedented times, but they're temporary. We're gonna get out of this. We need to use our government budget in a more handsome way. We need to increase the number of jobs in the public sector, and especially the private sector, we can do both. If we look at the public sector, I'm not talking about some professional job job. I'm talking about strengthening the public institutions where it is needed. We can see that there are 400 medical staff missing. Still, we have educated 1,000 nurses who are not nurses. Iceland's police relationship estimates that there are about 200 police officers missing. There is no need for psychologists on health care and school and social workers in many places, so I refer to these fundamental classes that we could increase in. The head of the BSRB has noted that government levels have decreased proportionally within the past 11 years. This is sobering because the project is huge in this sector. I have been criticized for talking too much about public work. I want to talk about public jobs because they are part of the film, but of course we need to strengthen our private sector. He's in trouble, and I agree with the highest. As regards the need for us to take decisive steps to rebuild the building up, the minister of finance does well. We need to approach the tourism companies who are getting this huge blow, the entertainment industry, the restaurant industry, the relativity sector, in some way we need to get closer to these people. I don't think it's the best thing to say in this bill. Of course, there are positive things to find, but what I'm trying to do here is to encourage the minister and the majority to do good. He has had the word that we are in the same boat, so let's show that we are. When it comes to helping those who need to live on the hard breadwinners, let's stretch out for a little longer. It's very strange on our part now. We can do that, and it's a good ideologies and political bitch, in my opinion, to use the terms of government in this way and then take a little longer to pay off the angle. I may now be a little out of business because we'll talk about a financial plan tomorrow, but it's gonna be in an unpublished canal after more than two years of less than 40 billion. We will succeed. Of course, I fear that the cutting - if it is done - could come upon those groups who rely on public service, whether older citizens, disability, students, patients, or poor people. These are groups who have relied on public service, and we need to protect them whenever possible. These groups have been very Greek in this government, and now the last of all, both the Microcracy Association and older citizens, have reasoned in a rather harsh way on this financial bill, count far from meeting their needs, even if they are part of it. But this is something we have to do. Surely we can do a little better when it comes to these large groups. I've kept saying that Iceland, despite all its wealth. We are the tenth richest country in the world, but in order to help these groups, we certainly need to make money. As long as it's not possible, we should be in debt as is being done in this bill. But we need to do it more, so I'll just speak Icelandic, we need to increase the angle more and then take a little more time to get it down. Iceland is a land of opportunity, but not for everyone. We need to create an exciting economy and a society in which all find their own people, where everyone can live a decent life. I know we don't do everything for everyone, but can't we start with the most incomely groups, especially when it comes to this kind of situation right now? When people who want to work don't get a job, we'll have to create work in the meantime, both in the private sector and in the public sector, but we'll also take a little better care of the groups that are forced to live in Iceland, the most expensive country in the world, and we'll never make it at 240,000 bucks. That tells itself something, Mr. President. Other than that, I look forward to the work of the Committee, and I know that we get a lot of reviews and hopefully we can listen to them. We've been a little bit of a little bit of a Icelandic on the budget to have many guests, but maybe a little bit overstated them, so I'd like to encourage a panel to get together on the motion of the case and not get involved in political shootings, because we're now in an emergency and we're supposed to make more changes. We are a small community, and all too often we are arguing about Caesar's beard. I'm not divorced there, and I hope that we can work better together and make this bill better and give people hope in it. Unfortunately, it's not enough for me to read first.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u62	A respectable president. We've had a word before on this bill and the material specifically mentioned in the talk each time. Senator. I'd like to mention two special things. On the one hand, I'm going to ask what. A senator what he means when he wants to mean that large - scale fishing fees should be paid higher than that. Is he evangelizing some ideologies about different fishing fees according to the size of an enterprise or what exactly is that? However, we have agreed that this is the access, the right to attend, the basis for the application. That's why it sounds a little strange that, in addition to that, we're going to work out between species. But the other thing I'm going to say is unemployment. Of course, it's easy to say. A senator when he says that unemployment rates could be higher, but these are insurance rights. It's part of the insurance bill, and they're funded by a job insurance bill. So when a person proclaims higher unemployment rates, he or she will have to decide whether to raise the insurance fee and possibly disappear as a guarantee rights. Not many years ago, workers just wanted the unemployment business to come to them with skin and hair, i.e. both the income and the responsibility to cover the benefits. I don't know if they'd called me now if we'd given in. They'd be at least taking tens of millions of loans if the government had yielded to the call to take over this party. Hv. A senator believes that we should raise our compensation and mention this number, 120,000 bucks. by taxes, there is not enough to survive. But what does it want? A senator tells the person working at the lowest rate of VR? He was at the beginning of a year with 317,000 people. After tax and pay-related fees, there are 252,000 dollars left. Or the person on the lowest rate Investments at 335,000 bucks. and has 263,000 taps. ... betweenthehands? There we have two, one of them has 252,000, and the other has about 2 60,000. [[The president calls.]] And what? A member of the body says: We must raise someone who is unemployed severely. What are you going to do for the others?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u63	Before what? 3.m. s.. The answer to the counter would like the president to point out that the clock is in somebody's reading, both in the president's screen and in the hatch. So Mr. President is trying to count down.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u64	Mr. President. Two questions. No, I'm not presenting a different fishing policy by the size of an enterprise. I thought it was in nature that as companies are bigger in this market, they have higher legislatures, and then they pay a higher price for that access. I believe this key section is available at this point. We need to take the discussion about how to finance what is ahead, and I just think that resource costs should be higher and not just in the seaside, but, for example, as well. ... inthepower. These are the country's common resources under the law, and we see that they are doing well in the production, and especially in the macros. We have a giant fishing business, even in a European field of profit, not only by our own understanding and sense of business but also by the use of this common resource. I handled these two figures, the profits are 62 billion in five years, and the profits are 200 billion in five years. Last year, the bank of its own money was 300 billion and had risen by 60% in five years. It's always talking about getting worse. It's not getting worse in general. You always start talking about the little designs, but I'm hanging out on the big ones, that they pay the highest price, so it's perfectly clear. In terms of unemployment, the Union's political convictions are that we want to raise unemployment rates. Two thousand dollars for taxes is too small. If there's a problem, we've got something called taxes. The insurance is tax. We can finance this with taxes and loans. Now I want to do it with borrowing. We may be able to reason midway: Can we not temporarily raise the basics, borrow it, let's just put it this way, so we can help this group temporarily? The fact that I want to raise unemployment isn't gonna stop me from fighting for the increase in pay too, but what the United States has suggested now is that we raise unemployment rates by 101⁄215%. [[The president calls.]] They would still be less than a minimum wage, even if you would accept our suggestions, which I sure hope you will.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u65	A respectable president. I'm just going to bring it into the discussion over the seaside that as he's doing better, he'll pay more taxes. He pays it through the income tax, through pay and pay-related fees, which are said to be through the local pay. There's an amazing amount of money when people can hire people, and so on. I think the idea that the big companies are somehow better equipped eventually gets bit on the smaller companies if you're going to continue to have similar pressures. With regard to the unemployment benefits, I'm just pointing out that there are a lot of people who work all day long on these lowest ears, and they have provisions that are in that range. A senator says that he is completely unannounced for his job at work. If they are to be treated justly, they are in the same position as people who work all day long and deserve their reward. Of course, going out of work is a terrible situation. But what we have done to meet the groups that are in an upset state of work is taking care of the part - help process and thus saving the job and maintaining the working relationship. I think the strength of the notice deadline was also very important because of his granting full access to all pay-or-explanatory expenses and the deadline itself. Plus, we've been extending the income-related period. This is all an action that is thought to be caused by an upset job. But it's very difficult, and it's very risky to start moving a lot of unemployment so that you're eventually as set as possible, if you go too far, better than people who are coming to work and returning everything by work. To me, it is that there is more to those who come to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u66	Mr. President. When there's no work now, people aren't playing at all. No one wants to be out of work. That's what I'm trying to draw out. There have been 20,000 missing jobs from the Icelandic economy under the Habitat. There are 20,000 other numbers, out of work. As long as we do not see an ambitious job structure and creation working, we need to approach this group in a more handsome way. I don't think we're supposed to fight these two groups, out of work, and out of work. The minimum wage is in way too low, 330,000 a.m., that's low. I know. I must be able to fight that we should be able to raise unemployment rates at the same time as I believe minimum wage is too low. It must be possible together, Mr. President. I also feel that there is a proper approach to this particular group that improvement is not that low, at least temporarily, if the highest. Minister is afraid this will stay too high for too long. I examined only in the summer whether the rise in unemployment changes puts people to work or not. It's not. I examined Yale, Harvard, and Moody's research that showed that it wasn't. Even in some places in the United States, unemployment rates are higher than the minimum wage. Still, it was not discouraging for people to look for work. Can you imagine? I'm not talking about unemployment benefits going up for minimum wage. I'm talking about temporarily cutting them down in some step in order to make this a difficult time in people's lives a little more bearable. At 250,000 bucks a month, people spend all they can because they can't afford anything else so they can get back into the economy. It is also good economics to get professional wheels started, to strengthen low - income groups and middle - income groups in this way because they immediately spend their money on the economy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u67	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ágúst, Ólafur of Ágústsson, did his best. As I understand why. A senator agrees with the policy expressed in these budgets and turns on defending the standards of living, defending the transfer systems, not moving on taxes, rather reducing spells, as the Supreme Court does. A government has been doing and is now fully accomplishing its purpose. I'll mention, for example, the content of the three-stage system and the income tax. On the other hand, there is a reason why. A senator must be very careful not to be doing enough. Now we've got three allowances from April through June, a total of about 103 billion, if I remember the numbers correctly. We look at the situation today that we have over 1,000 billion budgets that are pretty much in harmony with current financial programmes. Then we'll review budget plans tomorrow. Hv. On the other hand, a senator puts sizes in perspective and says that there is more to be done. We defend our infrastructure, as it is being done, and I know what it is. A senator believes that it is very important, i.e. Health, welfare and education. If we take the legal domain of these three systems plus interest rates, the next year's income will be 772 billion. Well, then they're good for it. The other areas of activity, the expenses we are spending to maintain public service levels and living levels are borrowed. [[The president calls.]] I know it was mentioned in the speech of two. A senator said that he agreed with the policy presented in this regard. But there must be some limit to when it is enough. [[The president calls.]] And where are those boundaries? I'm asking why. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u68	Mr. President. It is not enough to protect 1% of the land production in a government's special investment and building campaign. That's the case. It is not enough that the addition to innovation is only 0.3% of domestic product. It's not enough, Mr. President, that the addition to the environment, the so-called green revolution, gets 0.1% of land production. It is perfectly right to compare this with national production. We talk about this all the time. That comparison is perplexing. This is not enough to face one of the deepest depressions for a hundred years. It is not enough for a person who loses his job to live at 240,000 dollars. He can't make ends meet. That is why I disagree with many aspects of this bill when it comes to the scope of action involved in innovation, green business, investment, and then the loss of employment. Another thing I disagree with on the bill is, and I don't know if they've noticed, that there's still a retreat to the hospitals and schools I criticized at the council. Not much, I know. Why, though, is there still a 0.5% stipulation during this time Covid? I feel that the following year or so, men can comply with the requirements. So there's a lot of criticism here. Of course, I know that members of all classes are trying to do their best, and I know that he's great. Of course I know. But I say, given the position in which the Icelandic economy is in right now, we have to do more. It makes money against it. When we create a job, whether it's in the public sector or the private sector, the state gets income back. The thumb rule is about a third. [[The president calls.]] Sometimes it takes money to make money, and that's why I think we should be a little more ambitious in this budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u69	V.E.G. President. I may not have been clear enough because of the question. Then, in his speech, a senator took note that he was concerned that when we discussed the budget of 2020/22025, we would need to consider reducing the debt increase, 3,35,440 billion each year. This is because we have to pay interest on this loan, 60 million a year. It would be good to be able to use that money elsewhere. As we look at public financial laws, I pondered the baselines for sustainability and stability and whether it would be responsible politics not to look at the overall situation when we're going into debt to 50%. There's not the tireiest films, 50% of all the valuable things in this country in one year. If the highest. The government would bring financial benefits and would make a great contribution to all of these and all of these factors as easily as possible. A senator says that it's not enough, could it be responsible politics or responsible financial management? We would then have to deal with much, much higher money into the future and add to the burdens of future generations. Hv. In his speech, a senator himself said that this is a temporary situation. We have an unused manufacturing device and a work force. The job has not left the sector where the strongest is shown, in the tourism industry. We must only maintain our faith and, as with all our actions, maintain it as much as possible so that we can meet the demand and the work stays alive when the demand comes. Because she's coming.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u70	Mr. President. Yes, the demand comes, but it's not there now. That's why I'm calling for a stronger resistance. The government often talks about resistance. It needs to be powerful. It needs to be powerful. And I had only a chance to do that earlier. This summer I've been listening to the various noises of crisis. It was incredibly interesting. Whether you look at the Great Depression, the collapse of the bank, or other losses of the economy, expert experts felt that one of the major failures made by governments in such crisiss is becoming too low. It was said very early that the government was going to do more than less. Let's do it. Let's do a little more than that. I know it's payback time. Of course I know. That's why I'm calling for an investment. Let's invest ourselves and invest in people and businesses. We need to get the wheels going now. Let's make a debt. I know that even that word could not be mentioned here. Yes, let's owe ourselves more. Weeds are e.g. low. Unlike the collapse of the bank, we owe our primary debt today. Let us join in this expedition, create a new industry, and expand our current industry. Let's bet on the movie sector and on the TV sector, on domestic vegetable production, on the line of design, on computer development, whatever one person comes up to think of. Make it possible for people and businesses to get out of this wave valley and take the money with us. But sometimes they don't have the war difference. There is a lack of a public setting that is often in the form of assistance at a time like this, whether through the New Creation Fund or whatever else we have. Let's use these options a little bit better. 1% investment effort is no effort, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u71	A respectable president. We're here on bill for budget 2021. That bill has remarkable features in these amazing times in which we live today. Within a short period of time, we have lived two amazing periods of time. The first period was the failure of the bank. Then there was a man outside to protest. Now that you're inside, you can protest here at Covid and strongly protest the mission that this financial bill is to those who have less in our society. Since August 2019 to August 2020, the pay card has increased by 6.4%. These are new official numbers. It increased 4.3% from August 2018 to August 2018. Yet, social security pensions were only increased by 3.5% last year, and now it should only be increased by 3.6%. The survival of micro- and senile pensioners continues completely. And what are governments always doing? Yes, the majority of these funds are most needed, and they are the worst for receiving half of what they are to receive. These 3.6% have the right to keep up with inflation. They just got it. Of course, the rest is missing, the increase in food, and other products due to success. It is clear that the dollar has increased by 9.7% and the euro by 17.5%. It's now 15% and it's almost 20%. What does that mean? Yes, this shameful rise, 3.6%, is not returning. V.E.G. For the next year and on page, the minister of finance simply said that this would be expected to be paid for it. 104 of the budget bill makes it clear that it's 5.2%. And I'm asking, "What do you think this government has to do with numbers? " And why on earth does she have no more ambition than then go out into a ridiculous combination for the sole purpose of making sure that the 69th par. Law on social security? Not much of an ambition. Then it is the personal discount. If only those who have been in charge over the past few decades had it calculated correctly, and that is a foursome, alternately. In recent decades, the fourth category has divided its management points. And what have they done? Yes, they've taken a personal discount to say that if it had been calculated according to a remuneration rate, as should be done, we would now be at a minimum of 300,000, tax and impairment. I say for my part that it would be much easier to deal with this, to get the personality discount to the right, to concentrate on taxes rather than on these non-profit elevations all the time, both on the pay and on the pensions of public security. Then, of course, it's totally weird. In this century, we still talk about pensions, reforms. It's a pension wage. It's just the right people, and people aren't making up for anything. It's being paid to live. Another question you must ask yourself is why, on the other hand, the personal discount has not been made with inflation. We remember that it was not so long ago that IRS was reduced. But the discount was dropped, too. It's amazing that in public insurance, the tax system, and everywhere, a system has been created so that someone is right with his left hand, and then almost everything is torn off with the right hand. But they never tell us. It is only related to what was right in the left as being holy truth. This is exactly the same reasoning as the highest. Secretary of finance has used it when he says that social security has increased from 40 billion to 80 billion. It just doesn't tell us a story, it doesn't tell us anything. It's because older citizens and micropunchers are growing, it's inflation, and all kinds of things are involved. It has nothing to do with whether those in the social security system get any hyperventilation or whether they're doing better or worse. They're always worse. What we have to do and should do right away is tax down payment on the pension fund. Let's just tax them. That's about 100 billion. And what does that tell us? Where are we putting that money now? Yeah, we're putting them in the pension fund. What will the pension fund do to them? They invest in companies. Did you see the store's Pension Fund? He invested in Ikelanda. What happened to that money? Should we go to the collapse and watch all the taxes that lost them? If there is no money to raise those who don't have food and wait in line for a meal when just one week of the month is gone, why can't you tax down payment in a pension fund and use money for these people? And I ask myself, " Why on earth does the government not want to do that rather than allow these tax revenues to be on the market, since they are lost even and there is no guarantee that they will return? ' We need this money now. We're supposed to use them now because we don't know what's going to happen to them. Otherwise, it's just something in the woods that will never be in the hands. We cannot help those in the future who need our help now. We have to make sure that we do. And what can we do about this too? We can greatly expand our contribution to the health system. We are shamed that there are waiting lists, both now in Covid and during good times. Waiting lists are prolonged after arthroplasty and after treatment for paediatric patients. Today, 1,200 children are waiting for mental illness. A thousand people are waiting for replacement operations. How does this affect us? It helps to increase the stress on the health system. It tells itself that if a person is told to wait on a three, four, five years waiting, it will happen while the patient is down, drugs are burned, and end up in a hospital where the 24 - hour hospital spends more than 100,000 dollars. At the same time, this government reduces wealth tax and bank tax by tens of billions. Imagine that, at the same time, this government has saved tens of billions of dollars to deny a dollar or a penny of microchip. No, no, no, she used deception, 65 bucks, against a dollar, was all the magic. As a result, tens of millions of dollars are left there that had been promised them before the last election. I say for my part, Guð help you if you're going to believe that one more trip when the dust is blown by the campaign that this government is going to change something. And what will things be like after two years of cutting down? Who will be cut down first? They've found wide banks. There are older citizens, poor people, and low-payers because it's a masked right control. We need to realize that there are 65,000 pensioners in the country now and 20,000 of them. And these people can eat what's out in front of the government. The star of inflation is on its way. And what did they last tell us when it happened, in the collapse of the bank? 12,000 families lost their homes. I'm asking, "How far is it going?" You may at times become speechless as to the fact that in these amazing wretchests, the hula was tolerated, and nowhere in the budget is there any attempt to reduce the 30% of this group's survival. There's nowhere to put a crown in trying. It's as if they don't even want to make things better for these people. With no greater ambition than they have, they have declared that they are going to defend that position the way they can. To defend what? Yes, it is a group of older citizens who are good, and they are also desperate, and there is also a certain group of employees who are good at it. But at the same time, there's a huge group, way too big, and we're embarrassed at how big it is, which doesn't have good things, and basically leaves death out of shell. No one realizes it until he gets into a situation that sucks just waiting for a month's convention, and when the month's meeting begins after the next month's convention. And it starts in panic because the person realizes that he can be thanked for living a week or a half month, and the money's gone. What is the best result for this group? Yes, it has been created such a system that the only thing that comes directly into this group's pocket is to give him no tax money. Of course, it's also because of that, and it's important to the 10,000-thousand-to-lay call to pay the taxes. But will he fully return? No, I'm sorry. He won't because it's already started and has been in preparation all the time to make sure that when that 10,000 guy returns, one of the most pathetic things I think was invented will have been taken back in the wrong, chain-messages. It seems to have been invented solely for the cause of micro- and older farmers, to make them believe that when they have some raises, they will turn them into their pockets. The exact same thing happened that we agreed on at the time of the first bill I gave to the council, which made it clear that there were no more taxes to the poor and older citizens. It was such a gigant case that showed the ridiculousness of the system. When taxes were stopped, they were strengthened directly to the person. But while they were taxes, they could be used in an endless, chain - bearing impairment. As a result, people lost the money. And how pathetic can it be that we still haven't fixed such a ridiculous system? Nobody seems to want to fix it. The ambition is to protect it. What pride it is to defend a rotten system! Sadly, there is not much to increase. Tens of thousands are in the situation that sucks. There, parents ask themselves, " How in this situation should I feed and clothe my children? ' And it doesn't get better when 20,000 people are on unemployment. At the same time, the rich sing: The money is good. And they make as never before, as happened to them by reason of reason. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, 65 billion profits in the last five years, 12 billion a year. It was so difficult for this group to reduce the cost of fishing by 6 billion. Interesting. In the past, we were told that there was no one of the $2 60,000. 200,000 K. And if there were a little more, there would be no motivation for winning. We've created such an amazing system that the microchip is at the bottom of 220,000. paid or less than 2 60,000. for tax. Then there's a total of 290,000 out of work, more than 300,000 dollars. Now. Then there's a minimum wage at 351,000. when the biographies came in. In one place, we have accurately determined what is needed to live. Where is it? Yeah, artist's pay is 408,000 bucks, total genius. There's the number. At any rate, let us take pride in making sure that no one gets less than 408,000 dollars. Somebody calculated it. I'd like to know who calculated this and how it was calculated. Of course, it is remarkable in many ways that the advancement in this our system can be calculated in such a completely different way and that those who are ill, those with the least chance of saving themselves, should be the ones to be remembered. In the 69th. The social security legislation says that the improvement in social security should be changed annually according to each budget. The budget shows the annual updates of the money in the social security system. It even says, by permission of the president: In the bill, a percentage increase is expected to improve social security, i.e. At age and disability, and improvements in social assistance laws, there will be 3.6% starting on January 1, 2021. Half the time it's missing. This should be a minimum of 7% if properly administered. If something was being done because of shutting down, this should be a minimum of 10% and an increase in $10,000 if anything was trying to help this group. The decrease is based on evaluation of estimated mean increases in the total labour market by 2021.156. This method is by no means compatible with Article 69. Act on social security. You see, it says: The health of social security [...] will change annually according to each budget. Their decision should take into account pay development, although it will never increase less than the price of the consumer price. Has this been observed? No, it's a long way from here. Still, this is clear, the scale will take into account the development of the remuneration in the future. They ignore it. They just go right down to the index price of consumers and say that there's plenty for this group. And that's what they're going to defend with their mouths and jaws. This does not say that the decision should take into account future pay development or predictions of a change in the index value of consumers. Therefore, it is easier to interpret the provision as a basis for remuneration from the last update. In addition, this method is more accurate, as data are already available, so there is no need to predict what may happen in the future. This is also one of the most amazing things that have been in the social security system: prophecy. Sick people, older citizens, and poorers, these people are always supposed to predict inflation in order to reinvent their income plan. The government uses the exact same method just to keep those in old - age pensions and infirms out of the raise they have rights. They just look at a magic ball, figure out all kinds of percentages, 5.2%, 4.3%, and then say, "We'll just give them 3.6%." Is there anything here that shows black on white how this is calculated? Never, not a staff can't end, I think. In addition, it is strange how your pay development is checked in the budget bill. It shows that assessments of the estimated total employment market average increases are used for 2021. No further information on this evaluation is available in the bill. In addition, in recent years we have repeatedly seen the challenge of predicting contracts. Now the last time SA attacked the biographies agreements. Would it not be closer to the pay sheet used since 1989 to measure pay development, as the law expects? Too simple for the last few governments. It is much better to protect against law and to provide only the compensation, the increase in index prices. Of course, by doing so, poorer than at the same time will have to make the rich richer. There is no doubt in my mind that when it came to law, the understanding of the law would be applied to a pay number. But there is some explanation why the pay card is not used. That's because she'd raise the benefits more. That's right: Give more to disability reforms and sensibilities. There's poison in the directs of the government. It is ridiculous to try to return more to older citizens who have built up this country. And sick people? There are wide banks. The load is to be borne. Here is simply a preferred algorithm that costs my state funds instead of choosing a fair and efficient method. It may be best to compare it with another method in the budget bill, i.e. to determine pay development. As I learned earlier, on page 30 I spoke up. 104: The rate of pay is 5.2% increase. A prophetess of the government, which is probably the highest. Financial Minister Bjarni Benediktsson, predicts a 5.2% increase in pay. He said: "We're going along a projection to raise the pension pay to a social security agent. But somehow, 5.2% jumped down to 3.6%. Then he went on a trip to try to explain that there was a difference between something that I just have to say just as is to be completely out of the cow, just an incomprehensible phenomenon. There's no difference. Either this number is correct and we should have had it, or they don't know how to predict it. Why is this projection far more positive than the one involved in high - pensions in social security? The answer is simple. There's the estimated income of the state's budget of insurance, not the cost of social security. Then, of course, there are standards that indicate better predictions. I think that's why I'm here. There they prophesied about the insurance fee, and then they could take in a little more. If this is reversed, it's better to have the other number because they won't have to pay more for older citizens and micropunchers. I have to say exactly as it is, I don't understand this government or the former ones who have somehow been placed in these amazing budgets year after year, where one group is always left behind. Somehow, it is decided that the lowest of those who have had the lowest of their belts always more and more. We're seeing the consequences. I'm saying just as it is, we're in a bit of a strange position and we have to watch out because we're in a Covid epidemic. We're isolateing people. We're making rules about people being more isolated at home, that a certain group of the most vulnerable can't go out. What is the danger in this situation? Some people are forgotten, those who are sick are forgotten. We have terrible examples of what has happened. An individual, just within the city limits of Reykjavík, was found in a forest and had been there for months. They didn't call any alarm alarms. In the position we are now, it scares me the most that we're starving people here. Who's going to watch it? Who sees what happens to people who are at home and who do not trust to follow a meal, and they see no purpose in it because not all who go in line get food? They can't afford to order food online. If these individuals are alone, what will happen to them? All we can do, all the government's supposed to do, and its duty to do is make sure that they have alimony, can order their food, and not have to starve in their homes. It is the obligation of every government, it is in the constitution, and it is in the European Convention that it should ensure that everyone gets a decent living, not just a few chosen.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u72	Mr. President. The budget bill presented in difficult economic circumstances shows that income and cost become almost the same as expected this year. This will mean that the State debt will increase significantly over a short period of time and the balance of state funds between 2020 and 2021 of the largest in Iceland's history. Thus, it is a very difficult situation to discuss in the economy, and it is important to be successful on the part of a government fund to try to soften the challenges that are present with all available resources. The Hall that was to become 10 billion this year will be over 269 billion. Next year the situation will be the same, limping to 264 billion. In two years, therefore, the cap will be 533 billion. When the collapse of the bank occurred in 2008, the hook was 194 billion. So we are in a worse position in debt than in the collapse of the bank. This situation involves a great deal of trouble for a part of the nation, especially those who have lost their job and are losing it. The figures on unemployment are increasing, as are predictions of unemployment, and forecasts have only deteriorated in a short period of time. A labour agency has raised its project on the development of unemployment and professional drivers' organizations predict that as many as 30,000 people can do without a job for years. Of course, it's very serious, Mr. President, but unfortunately, there is a general shortage of funding bill that increases in financial resources follow clear and measurable goals for the growth of jobs that is the main project we are facing. Invested investments in the state funds during this year are very important. They need to be bigger than is required in this bill. And if not now, when? The business situation is particularly bad on Southnes, I want to get it in here. The lack of employment is just about 20% in Smokejanestown. How sad that there have not been billions of projects in Helgavík, on the behalf of the Atlantic Alliance, on the part of the government, on natural maintenance projects that then come into civil use, and according to our commitments to NATO and to alliances! Here is another example of how the Independence Party bends to the powder for the left green ideologies in this category. To cope with the problem that we face in the economy, we are not able to raise taxes, and that is a reasonable way. Also, it's not supposed to take a cut, and I'll find out more about that afterwards, but it's to take a loan to get through a lot of economic problems that everyone hopes will be short-lived. The living room predicts 3.9% of the interest rate next year. I hope it's going to work. It is very important that this remains, however, there is a large degree of uncertainty, e.g. for the virus vaccine will be available, and tourists will be returning to the country, and the wheels will return to the economy in a natural way. But I am quite worried that these economic forecasts are not going to work out completely, especially in the light of what made us feel better now, this increased infection. The direct economic impact of the epidemic makes the publication of the State Fund worse by 192 billion dollars. There the rate of tax recovery is the largest in terms of the estimated 89 billion dollars. In spite of a considerable change in next year's economic projections, forecasting about unemployment is the same as in an updated financial policy or about 6.7%. However, there is a considerable chance that unemployment could increase in the next year if economic interest rates have deteriorated and economic growth predictions do not work out properly. There's a darker forecast of unemployment now. As a result, there is likely to be a lack of expenses for unemployment benefits in the bill, which could exceed 100 billion in the next two years. It is therefore of utmost importance, Mr. President, to promote creation. The government must have a credible policy in this regard. The role of the State is very important. I'd rather just step away from the state's debt collection. Even though it is the best available option in these difficult economic situations, there is still great concern in debt. According to tomorrow's financial program, debt does not stop raising until 2025 as a percentage of land production. There is the danger that the debt of the state and rural society will reach 65% of land production at that point if no action was taken. What a dramatic change that is for the worse in a short time! So this is where economic growth is essential. It is a long time and concern that it takes five years to balance your budget. So I'm going to go back to a financial plan - it's necessary in this discussion, even though we're going to do a careful review tomorrow -- it's assuming that the publication of the state funds will be negative about 264 billion next year and about 800 billion years from 2221/22025. It is apparent that the debt of state funds increases to 1,250 billion by the end of this year to over 430 billion. If the uncertainty shift is fully new as it has been reported by new financial policy, the debt of the A-part of state will be over 2,000 billion by the end of 2022. These are just plain unprecedented numbers we've never seen before, Mr. President. Hence, it is vital that we succeed in the financial work, which is the key to making the government come in in handsomely in an effort to minimize the serious economic crisis that all of us have faced. The next year the debt may increase by 268 billion and will be over 1,500 billion by the end of the year or by more than 41% of land production. Low interest levels and payment on loans for interest on interest rates are certainly positive, but this will not be the case in the future. We are expected to raise again, not so long, and the financial cost of the state's budget to rise. V.E.G. In his background, the minister of finance mentioned the importance of living in the best interests and paying off debts in recent years. It is true that the government of Sigmundur Davíð's Gunnlaugsson was on the road there. However, there was a conference with a new government of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, until they woke up from a bad dream in traveling service. It is not available in the budget nor is it stated in a financial programme what results the government's system of measures have yielded to the virus epidemic of up to tens of billions, despite the fact that the government's laws on government finance are responsible to assess the results of such measures. The government's actions were characterized by a number of despair and were not well prepared, as we saw so clearly when determined companies began to take advantage of such measures as the partial improvement process without needing them. Here, the preparation of the procedure was simply inadequate, keeping in mind that the state funds are common fund for all of us. Misuse of it always comes in one way or another. In general, there is a shortage in the bill that increased budgets follow clear and measurable targets, e.g. there is an increasing number of jobs. What should be achieved, when to achieve it, and how to achieve it? Finally, we need to be clear - cut goals. This is very important in the work that lies ahead. Large jobs have a significant impact on economic growth, and now our largest sector of exports, tourism, collapses almost overnight, as well as the two exports, the big industry, and the marine soil have been successful. All talk of the loss of industry and the speed of the green revolution is irresponsibility. The same people are unaware of the economic situation in Iceland and the importance of valuable things for a small nation. The same can be said of the seabed. It is not for the nation to constantly speak down this most basic work of ours, especially now that the influx of currency has been severed and unemployment is on the highest level. However, there are a number of things in the fishing industry can be corrected, tailored to these problems, as they say, the saying, the saying, the salatography, the salary, and the way hunting costs are calculated, but the government should always seek to strengthen the working environment of Icelandic companies and, especially, when the economic environment is in a more serious position. It is disappointing that the financial bill does not account for more reduction in the insurance bill than it does. A transient reduction of 0.25% is effective in this situation. It needs a handsome reduction or a down payment on the insurance fee, and that does not result in the loss of the tax. Let's keep that in mind. It creates valuables, creates new incomes for government funds as the number of jobs starts to grow, and there is no need to pay on unemployment. It is a vital step to increase the number of jobs and, in effect, could be linked to the decline, thus encouraging companies to recruit people. V.E.G. In his speech, the minister of finance said that next year the cost would be 10 billion lower. Nevertheless, the price next year is 100 billion. The minister also said that the State Fund played a key role in this. Under it the mind should be taken here, but this key role is to use in the right way. A handsome reduction in insurance costs works against unemployment, which will cost 100 billion dollars in two years. High insurance costs are worst for companies where pay and pay-or-remuneration are largely expensive. Every job is important, and especially at a time when unemployment is going to an historic peak. The economy must be cared for so that they can keep their employees and hopefully increase them. High insurance costs also weaken competitiveness. Improved Iceland's competitiveness is very important and especially now. Icelandic tax returns are high in international comparison, with the second largest in the north countries behind Norway. Despite the abolition of the insurance bill, it is calculated to deliver more than 100 billion dollars. in the next year's government funds, but as it is known, the insurance fee is a special price to be paid by the payers. The price is calculated as a percentage of the salary paid by the company to its employees and the more dollars paid by the company, the higher the sum needed to be paid in insurance and the higher the higher the insurance fees to the company, the more expensive is the individual employee for the company. The higher the percentage, the less pay raise, the less the company can support and the number of jobs as well. The price reduces the ability of an enterprise to invest and create jobs. Therefore, private companies' growth potentials are blocked by high insurance costs. V.E.G. In his speech, the secretary of finance also stated that it was very important for private companies to invest. A reduction in the amount of insurance would make it easier for them to do the same. In recent years the competition between international enterprises has gotten worse because of the domestic cost increase, measured in foreign currency. This trend is now evident in the less valuable production of exports and enterprises on the national markets that compete with foreign companies. Thus, the benefits of a good reduction in insurance pay are great. In addition, companies are to be supported by paying taxes on the stock market and the tax-free market. This is also an important injection. This was done a few years ago, and it would allow the public to be involved in building an enterprise that will create the work. It is positive to see an increase in funds for competitive funds in the bill for the development of research and innovation, but it is important that there are clear, measurable targets such as this. the growth of sustainable work in the future. On the other hand, this is lacking on the part of the government. Mr. President. It is obvious that in the government budget, there is evidence that there is an election coming. Although economic growth is expected to occur immediately in the new year and the tourism service will resume, expenses will not be reduced. In that respect, these budgets are election laws. It is committed to the next government to bring down the balance of state funds. The government, which has less than one year of its administration, feels that it is important that a clear and practical policy should be set up to stop an increase in government debt as a percentage of land production at a later date than the end of the financial programme and to break by causing the cycle of surrogacy and debt to restore the government's financial status in the future, as stated in the financial programme that we are discussing tomorrow, should it be established in this context because it is obvious that the government is not afraid to be able to recover much by reducing public activity. That's too short for an election. Normal efficiency and efficiency must be required in all government activities, especially under the difficult circumstances of the financial crisis. To face this crisis with some cutback on expenses is a matter of confidentiality. It is possible to operate without reducing assistance to the public. That's basic. The money saved by cutbacks should be used to create e.g. temporary jobs. Moved by money from local societies, they temporarily produce jobs in their home area, and then the state's funds also bring about temporary jobs. This is important and reduces unemployment, reduces unemployment, and includes necessary government management. I would like to step in on climate because I believe that it should not take first place when we discuss the standard of living in the most serious crisis society has experienced for 100 years. The problem category is increasing by 4.4 billion years to the cutoff of donations to the surface and strengthening to the rural community due to irrigation projects. As a result of these issues, there is a 2 billion increase. Is that normal this year's trip? I don't think so. Funds for 2019 included an increase of 2 billion and an increase in environmental government of 1.6 billion years. For 2019 it was a total of 800 million, and an increase between 2019 and 2020 was 572 million. Let us look at other teams where saving can be done in an effort to expand their jobs, using the money to increase the number of jobs. The language category of candidates for international protection is controlled by 3 billion, with a total of 4 billion alien languages. This group of paintings is out of control, and it can save a lot of money. We're supposed to discuss what's better in this system, like in other systems. We will discuss better with our health care providers. We'll discuss what can be done better in the social security system, but it's as if you can't discuss what can be done better in the business of the trustees. Much more of the people applying for international protection in this country are people who are looking for a better standard of living. There's no legitimate reason to get a permit here. These applications should be completed immediately in two days, as in Norway. It's not done here, and government funds have to be paid for these people for months until they finally have their case taken care of. There is no effectiveness in the seminar and shortening the duration of treatment. It's a responsibility not to deal with this, and it's written on the government, and I have to say, Mr. President, especially on the Independence Party because he's had his case on the case for years. He does not seem to be able to handle the problem. And the government does not set out with a fine example in a government conference. In the bill, she gets 681 million and goes up to 20 million. K. Between years of age, for the lack of more assistants and media officials. It is the government's opinion that there is no need to save in the government home, even though we are in the worst crisis for 100 years. An increase to foreign affairs is less than 1 billion years apart. Increasing to the emissary is about 205 million. An increase to the government of the state's budget is 2.2 billion between the years. It is quite clear, Mr. President, that there are a number of teams in which you can arrange and then use the funds to increase the number of jobs and thereby reduce unemployment. We cannot build our future on loans, said the highest. Secretary of finance in his speech, and I agree my mind with it. There's a bloody waste all over the public system, said the highest. Secretary of finance. It is clear that money can and can be arranged in many parts of the Kingdom system to cope with these great challenges, to face people who have lost their job, and to lose their jobs. That is why we have to adjust our government, and it is very easy to do so without affecting people who are now hurting. If there is no basis for saving government money now when government funds are at an historic level, that is never the case. So I have pointed to billions that could be used to create temporary jobs at one of the biggest unemployments in the nation's history. Again, the government is loaded under the booth with the Independence Party at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and, in the past, the slogans of the Independence Party, Refuse, and turn around, and become a laughingstock. In recent years, there has not been a great economy program within the Council of Government, and it has long been time to launch an attack on the public system and reduce public activity. Moreover, it is unwise to improve Kingdom interests, as it has been done, since it is difficult and painful to wind down an increase if the government's earners are changing, as is true today. The increase in budgets beyond the general price increase is rule rather than exception. The government will thus become more and more expensive to taxpayers, thus increasing the cost of government surveillance. The bill holds low state standards, which are surprising in view of a huge angle to a trust fund. It is normal to do at least 10% of the budget per capita. State funds should be returned to over a billion dollars. Mr. President. This government will long be remembered when it comes to agriculture. She has not moved the support he needs, and he deserves it. Each member of the government has adopted conclusions on the importance of agriculture. It cannot be concluded by the Agency to ensure the reasonable working conditions of agrienvironment schemes have been highly regarded when increasing the import of agrienvironment schemes was introduced. The same is true of the Independence Party that spoke for the last election to maintain the strength of Icelandic agriculture. At the same time, he does not want to interfere with a customs contract that undermines the agriculture. The Tolla Convention on the European Union is an extremely adverse agriculture. He is to present the same possibilities to the European Union and this is not a deal. The media have repeatedly pointed out the need to cancel the contract because of the broken foreclosure, but Britain's account from the European Union makes it our largest and best market area disappears from the contract at this time of the year. The European Union will again be negotiated on agricultural products. The evidence goes on to suggest that the implementation of this contract is very hard to read. Inland, a greater quantity of agricultural products from the European Union than allowed by the Treaty is permitted. Therefore, the contract procedure seems to be inaccessible, and this has included: The leadership of the town council pointed out. The media has requested to discuss this matter specifically at the General Assembly. This is a punch for Icelandic agriculture on top of everything else. The viral epidemic has made it possible for the state to have looked beyond it more. In times of uncertainty about the world's economic affairs, the collapse of exports, unemployment, and tourism, let us remember that powerful farming equipment, the European Food and Food Security are the foundation of power, vigor, and human life in this country. Mr. President. As is usually related to the budget bill, changes in various laws are due to budget. For simplicity, this is known as reimbursement rates, and they are frequently valid for the year. Of course, these increases have high prices, raise the index price, raise the loans of the population, and fuel inflation. The State's authority is to be actively involved in the effort to reduce the rise in prices and not to increase beyond what may be considered absolutely necessary. Inflation has been low in recent years, but such factors may have resulted in slight air pollution. The need for Kingdom power to be fulfilled in this way cannot be seen. Resurrections must be strictly maintained, and this is especially true now that the nation is certainly not in a position to let inflation get out of control. Mr. President. I want to, now that my time is getting shorter, only include the locals' affairs. The situation of many rural communities is bad, and much too little has been discussed about the impact of the virus epidemic on rural areas. The budget bill contains a reduction in rural donations and settlements of 1.4 billion. ... anda reduction in rural Sights of 1.2 billion. At the same time, the expense of the rural society for financial support has increased substantially and is expected to increase further. Expenditures for financial support increase by 30% this year, and by 60%, according to figures set by the European Union. Farmers face severe difficulties, and to make ends meet, they need an injection of 50 billion dollars. There is no mention in the bill of the contract made recently by the secretary of finance and economics to the rural community for the increased support of the virus epidemic. Clearly, it is not enough. It is estimated that there will be an increase in tax analysis spending of about 250 million. K. and that's fine, but there is a lack of measurable goals on which such increased funds should be returned to the taxpayers. The subject of innovation is mentioned only of the college and the afterlife. Of course, in order to achieve a complete goal for future innovation, we need to consider the basic school and policy. The tax returns in the bill of 17.8 billion dollars. and increasing by 741 billion. K. I've been discussing this team before, Mr. President, in the budget. It is clear that this seems to be very difficult to get down on account of the Ministry of finance and finance, and this is a serious concern because this amount is large, 17.8 billion of legal tax requirements that do not come into the financial budget. There's something wrong with this system if it goes on like this year after year, and the amount goes up from year to year. This has to be taken. The next two years on budget can be about 600 billion, as we have seen, and it is headed for 900 billion in the next five years, which is a total of funds in the next five years, which is very serious, Mr. President. The bill does not explain how to pay this up. It takes five years to achieve a balance that is a very long time in view of the fluctuating Icelandic economy. The bill does not expect payment of debt, but reduces as a proportion of GDP, thus working on it. Then the government's budget has little space, and the next government will have to make difficult decisions. Worked hard on debts that resulted in the last crisis in the fall of financial companies. At that time, it was the swelling process and the stability process that played a key role. There's no such thing now. Now we need to pay off debt, probably with an increase in taxes, sales of possessions and income that are shrinking, only if economic growth becomes so much greater in the coming years, which will seem relatively unlikely. The loss of debt to succeeding generations has not been established. This should be discussed within the committee. In fact, the Ministry has already provided a report or a summary of this, which is very important to have before the discussion. Because of the time, I haven't been able to access important issues that I would have wanted to discuss here. These are the ideal older citizens and others who rely on pension pay. I have to agree with this discussion later, but it is absolutely unmistakably clear that the benefit of the elderly who have been remembered between their hands is in no way consistent with the general standard of living in this country and that it is urgent to deal with the decline in social security and to look to this group who have forgotten in the discussion of the virus epidemic. Finally, Mr. President, I would like to say that I hope that in the future, there is a good work on the budget of the bill, and I expect to cooperate well with all members of the committee. In addition, I expect the government to look closely at the suggestions we in the central category are making to contribute, which is of great importance to the restoration of the economy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u73	Mr. President. I would like to raise a question here and make comments to the debate. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, who went through many areas and addressed many matters, which, of course, would always be interesting to discuss with greater depth. But since he carried down the cost raise and waste money, as I understood it, and specifically mentioned foreign service, I'd like to share it with you. A senator, as well as a more dignified president, may suggest that we consider it better at our work on a financial committee in the management of this financial bill on the development of budgets. I want to draw attention to what. The senator, when discussing government waste and additional donations for foreign affairs, only says that there are two departments. Looking at cost development, as early as 2007, the adjusted price until 2020 has been set up at a rate of about 2% during that period. There are smaller expenses for this class, but it has been for a very long time, quite contrary to most of the other departments. In fact, there is another ministry that has the same treatment, i.e. The Ministry of prose and innovation, which has far greater contractions than the Ministry of State. I think it's a good thing that we're talking about this in the first place. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's farms deal with the budget in this way. All I can say is that in a small number of problems in the past few years, it has been so much the same with the support and efficiency of business management. This has been done by reducing the number of emissary offices, closed passposts, local workers, etc. That's my tip last year's answer to the question. A senator, who has come to realize that during the past few years, a donation has been made to foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u74	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's tip. He was particularly responsible for the Ministry of State. I mentioned that the increase from year to year as shown in the budget bill is $1 billion. I know it's part of the process is an increase in the development process, but it's, for example, a process. ... untilpassingover 200 million. I realize that the Ministry of State is a very important Ministry, and it is a highly qualified staff agent and plays a very important role in our administration. But we now face one of the greatest recessions, and one of the greatest collections of state funds in history, and then we have to look for all ways to manipulate and make the most of the money. And you ask, "An increase of 200 million to your emissary, is that necessary? " Increase to government administration of 2.2 billion dollars, is that necessary? Is it necessary to place 3 billion in the seminary on global protection applications when most people who apply here are looking for a better standard of living and do not have a legitimate right to apply for it? But so difficult are these applications that we need to keep these people up while they are waiting for their conclusions. All this costs money, huh? Senator. Now we have to roll all the rocks. V.E.G. A financial minister rightly mentioned that there is bloody waste all over the public system, and I think there are a lot of factors in it. There are many ways of setting things straight. And if that's not the time to try to find the money we can use to create, for example. " temporary work to reduce unemployment, reduce unemployment payments from the fund,'I ask, " When can it be done? ' It's just what's going on here, huh? A senator, and he's standing on the bill. It is true that at work ahead of time, we put our stitches completely on, and I hope I have an all - out man. A senator with regard to that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u75	Mr. President. It happened, as if I thought, when it happened. A senator specifically mentioned growth in foreign service, but I'm not going to inherit it with him, I think it's necessary that we go over it like any other. The increase in the cost he makes it that the topic of publicity is much more associated with the success development of expenses, since the cost of government services is normally dependent on policy development. But there is another point in speaking. A senator I can't concentrate on, even though there may be a discussion outside of a budget bill. A senator on customs contracts and farm supplies. In many ways, I agree with it. A senator mentions. But I would like to, a respectable president, that we may have the discussion more meaningful than that, because I am one of those who agreed to the Convention, where we fixed that customs agreement. Then I'd like to have a good time, too. A senator recognized who made that agreement. If he doesn't like it, I suggest a public examination of who made the customs contract. Of course, the evolution of a subject is a serious matter. I know it's the highest. The secretary of state works to reevaluate that contract, but the agreement was linked to a much larger case, which was the confirmation of agricultural contracts. I don't want us to play the political game of not knowing the responsibility for that matter. A senator understands what I mean when I say this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I have to tell you about the agricultural business, it's very well arranged that there was a mistake in making the contract, and we just have to learn from it. So we are to adopt this contract because it is against us. And now we're seeing a big change in the contract environment. The British are leaving this contract, they're leaving this contract and they've had an adjustment period that runs out at the end of the year. As far as we're concerned, that's gonna make a big difference to the deal. Then it is now showing that the contract is under nearly nothing control. Much more agricultural products are being imported from the European Union than there is a warrant. It is natural for a farmer to suffer, and it is a very serious matter. We have to deal with this and unite with one another because there was never a agreement to escape the agreement, as is obviously being done. But I know why. A senator is concerned about agriculture, and he has contributed much good in this regard. I know we all agree that the need for this contract to be a benefit to the people who pray about it is necessary. He's not the same as he is, and we need to set things straight, and I'm happy if a foreign minister has reached that level of work. A senator informed here. It would be nice to know how that work goes and how it works. A minister is optimistic about us achieving a contract that is favorable for Icelandic agriculture. We need to strengthen Icelandic agriculture, especially in our current year tour. Therefore, we are not to put up with such things, as is clearly seen, that a contract made that is more adverse to us, as it were, to abuse them in a way that is clearly unsupervised, and here it flows into agricultural products that are rightly not meant to come through this agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u77	Mr. President. We're here on the budget of the coming year. I'm gonna try to stick with them rather than mix the conversation much with the financial agenda that we're discussing again tomorrow, but I'm sure it's inevitable that something will flow there. The thought that we are now facing situations that in many respects are unprecedented, and that is why there is a need to take action in terms of government motive. The government has been pleased to say, or at least Some of her representatives and ministers, that there is a reason for this situation to do more than less and less, I agree to and agree to that. In fact, we put these words into words and say: " Big steps now! ' So here's a pretty good combination that I think we should try to make use of. There are many problems we face, and at the highest rate, and first there is one result of this unemployment crisis. Unemployment is now on the highest level, and it is likely to be even more. Unemployment is a disaster we don't want in our society. The population is affected in a variety of ways. It's regional, and it's detectable. They need to be handled accordingly. Actions need to be focused on attacking the unemployment problem where it is the most important thing. Similarly, there are a lot of companies in the country with major business problems, and the same is true, the problem is very disconcerting. There is no need to have many comments about the fact that in travel and related articles, people have become more severe and are confined to many places - or are absent - the activity is totally paralyzed and can be said to have a low impact. At the same time, there are other articles that are doing well. This too should be kept in mind when discussing wise action. It is obvious that when a large proportion of people do not earn money, and they are believed to be 25,000, and up to 30,000, some say, for years, they are contracting in a domestic demand when people earn less money. Hence, it is very important to try to maintain the demand by helping these people. There are also many problems with companies and households, which are the social problem, apart from the health of the day. However, it is not only the effect of Covid on those infected with that disease but also the risk that long - term unemployment and uncertainty will affect social status and general health, especially mental health. Then we have a big business at the government fund. It is obvious, and there is no dispute that there is a great debt. We are, though, I think, most of us would agree that the right to use a government fund in this situation is, but, of course, there are limits to what a government fund can do and what it would be wise to do a lot of things. We also have to face up to the fact that the government case had become insurmountable to Covid. They are certainly not sustainable right now, but of course we plan to become self-sustained. Mr. President. I've only mentioned what we're up against very much, and I'm sure no one's surprised. Then I'd like to mention and meditate on several things that can have a profound impact on how things develop and some facts develop in the economy. This is not necessarily an important series, but I'm going to start with the budget, which may be a bit optimistic, especially in the final reports that it is much slower than we all hope to cope with Covid and may be too optimistic. It also turns out that the inflation has only begun to be crushed, only I say, but it's actually getting a lot of trouble. We also live under the fact that commercial power here has been growing in recent years and is, in itself, a source of joy, but we have also found that the growth in society has not been sufficiently high and quite far away. History tells us that eventually it will result in in in inflation if increases in pay or in financial resources go far beyond growth. That's me looking for a long time. This involves a dramatic decrease in the level of the crown's gang. We also know that they are turning themselves into the prices and are already doing so. These are underlying factors that I think are very important to us. One of the things all of us are talking about is trying to put up a good fight, and there are many ways to do this. We and the government are going to be talking about taking on lucrative projects and projects, and I think we're all agreed that that that that's wise. I prefer to talk in one piece about projects and projects, as this can be of various ways. The practical projects are important, and I think that's very important, and in fact, it applies to the other projects as well as to all this reaction, to do more than less and to take big steps right away. In fact, I have a measure of concern that I will be able to get these projects started and started. That's why I'm talking about it. That's why I'm talking about it. The warning words of a financial adviser who says that it is very unwise if the situation becomes quite unwise when the shift in the economy becomes the fastest and the greatest, and we all hope that this situation will not last very long, it is rather short and quick, it is very undesirable and even dangerous that first major projects will be carried out in the following years, when we do not need to work out the tensions or to put on the edge of a general life. Hence, it must be a priority for us to find together both practical and practical projects that may be available to state and rural society, and that they have the advantage, apart from being profitable, being able to create jobs, that they can be addressed immediately. This is very important, and I believe that the government has already listed a number of projects that can be started right away, because that's the main thing. The problem is now, hopefully this will not be the case after a year or two. This is extremely important. We all agree that it is very important to look to the future, and there I think we can do even better than we are doing now and even better than the financial bill. I mean, basically, we're using the devices we have to direct into the innovation sector now and in the months to come. Therefore, I think that despite the best efforts to increase money into this sector, it is important to be very careful whether it is not right to bring a special budget bill right away that the competitive funds will be funded at this time of the year. The reason for this wisdom is that there is a great need for this money. There have never been more applications in this fund. There is a possibility that well less than half of the applications considered worthy have been supported. It would be very important if this money could be put to work right away, not to wait until next year. There's opportunities, there's jobs, and there's the future. If we get ahead of ourselves in this immediate process, we will develop a better economic outlook sooner and longer and will lead to the necessary revolution of our economy, which we must immediately prepare and do. This is why I'd like to mention that this year's approval was to provide funding for so - called Sturdy Crea, which means that the state lends innovation companies that have financial problems, lends money against other investors giving similar money. This was the subject of a good deal of discussions when money funds were approved, and I and I criticized that there were too little money involved, or 700 million, coming from the state into this assignment. It is now found that there were 26 companies who received approved applications and are equipped with a process of processing at the Organic Fund of the employment that has these issues to do. But it turns out that the government can't meet the promises made, certainly in advance that it would have to be cut down if the money was not proportional to the companies, but we're not talking about a small cut-off. This is less than half as much as a cutoff, so a company that had approved the budget of 200 million made investors promise 100 million over the fact that the state would bring another 100, but now the state says: Unfortunately. The money's enough. You only get 50 million or 55 million according to the events. Let us bear in mind that these are loans. This isn't strength. What has also been discovered is that the terms of these loans are extremely rigid and burdensome. It's really remarkable that when we're helping companies, innovation companies, all of whom we're all talking about being the future, then all of a sudden, we're gonna be like the most cruel investments when we borrow money for these projects. Then we say, the kingdom must be as cruel as the most desperate capitalists. I don't know if this is the right course if this is a reaction to the plight of these companies, and if this is the future we're trying to create. I think it would be wise to go to work right away in transporting a budget bill and setting it up. It would be a way of supporting and inspiring, and nothing would ever stop us from doing so in itself. There are other factors that we need to face. We can mention that the local communities have a real problem, and they are seriously affected by such crisis. There's a lot of pressure on the local community, and it's going to have to be reacting to it. Farmers are so rural that they find it difficult to earn money, they don't have taxing power, and their hands are somewhat involved in borrowing. So there is a big task that we must face together. There are many challenges that need to be faced. I've chosen this entry to 1st. not to talk very strongly about the budget or to be particularly harsh in this first round of criticism. Of course, this bill has a lot of good things, and it would be better now. There's a lot of things in there that's normal and probably there. What I hope to do in the work of a financial committee is that it will result in the reaction of the majority of those in the ideal committee, the administrative body, that people will put forth effort to listen to the suggestions and ideas that will be put there by the spirit of government, and the restoration I am speaking of here. The suggestions will be discussed seriously and will be taken seriously. Even though I know and don't question the top. The secretary of finance and the people who saw that this bill tried to learn what they could do are human works that can be improved and fixed for a long time. Of course, the main subject must be to create a powerful resistance right away. It has to be done now. That doesn't mean doing it after a few months or even a year, as I did earlier in terms of bigger projects. Speaking of bigger projects, I had a language place here at the highest level. The minister of finance after his entropy speech, which included those issues. a bridge over the Elf who's on a transport plan but is scheduled to include in the form of a so-called PPP investment method, i.e. Private and government cooperation projects. I'm worried that the methodology I'm not opposed to, I reiterate it, that's a good methodology, will make the project slow. As far as I know, the human race is fully designed and ready in itself to have an invitation and can start working on it right away. I think it would be wise, though it may not be entirely a financial committee to recommend the priorities, but still, to carry such assignments ahead, a project that is ready, and will be of great importance. It's a big project, and it's also a very lucrative project, which I don't think any dispute is important. I think this is one of the things we should take a very close look at. There are other factors that are somewhat limited in the budget. It's, for example. to speed up energy exchange. There I think a great deal of effort could be made, even more intense than already proclaimed, e.g. building loading stations all over the country, promoting transport as eco-friendly. I think it was a huge deal. Then we will stress that a variety of temporary measures can be taken that can stimulate the job life. As I mentioned at the outset, special attention should be given to the hard - working articles. I think in some ways, for example. successfully managed with a so-called transport still valid and set at least Cymbaltic powers were exerted by us Icelanders traveling inside the country and staying at hotels and eating in restaurants. I think we could possibly repeat that game in a more handsome way and give, for example. Three tours and cultures. I think we should link it together so we wouldn't just be traveling, but we could use it for cultural events. We know that these articles have been hard to deal with, so that it might be wise. We also need to examine ourselves seriously and put it to full force, and there are promises in the budget, to make green investments. I think it's very smart to help companies, support companies who want to take big green steps, and they get money to do that. It helps us in climate targets and also helps us to work and do business on such projects. One of the things I would like to mention in addition to this is insurance, which has been a significant subject for discussion. Now, as part of an agreement with the employment community, the insurance bill has been offered to cut it whole by 0.25%. I'll let myself at least. have warned that doing this was the wisest thing to do. I suggest that we consider in very detail the use of a reduction in insurance costs much further progressively toward the ones that have suffered the greatest shock. I think we should also take a very serious look at using it so that there is a discount or a decrease in insurance fees when a company employs people of unemployment. We would thus be encouraging and encouraging people to get jobs and companies to be more bold in recruiting people. This would be temporary action. I think it was important with many of these things, that we have temporary action. It has also been said much about what it would be wise and unwise to do about unemployment. I think, first of all, we have to make sure that we can be equal to people who have lost their jobs so that everyone will sit at the same table there. It has been decided to extend the income link, and we in the woodines think it would be wise to take bigger steps and decide to extend it all the way through the next year. Another thing that I think would be very wise to consider is whether people who are on unemployment will be allowed to earn money without cutting the benefits. I think I'm right about now that there is now a holiday target, so to speak, 70,000 bucks, that can be earned. I think it should increase it, triple it at least And what does it accomplish? People are doing something, making more money. I think it's also wise because many people don't see why they can't go back to their previous jobs, want to make new ones, try new ones, have more time to work on their interests. Mr. President. Of course, there are many things you can say and talk about our subject on a budgetary committee and then the General Assembly in preparing the budget effectively so that it will come as best. I'd like to emphasize, as I did to the publicity earlier, that we'd try to work this thing together. Let's do this together if you're going to mean what you're saying, that you have to activate the Council and that the best way you can do it is through conversation and consultation and cooperation. I think we should talk that way. I want to close this talk to mention only the night's economy. The night economy is not a black economy, as someone might think. Rather, it is the economy of the primary systems of working at night and nights. These are all kinds of entertainment, bars, restaurants, art and culture. This activity has been greatly affected, and at times you may feel that other strands view these activities as being designed to be less compassionate by coming to their aid. I think it's all wrong. This is a very large and important part of the economy, and there is also a very large and rich part that people usually maintain health, especially mental health, that they can enjoy various forms of entertainment. That's where I think we can do more. It is not particularly a joy for those who run restaurants and bars that are more and less closed or half-aged to learn that they are now to raise the price of alcohol. [[The president calls.]] When I say so, I'm sure and believe it, and trust that we will have a very good cooperation in a financial committee to make these budgets as good as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u78	Mr. President. We'll talk about budgeting in 2021. V.E.G. The minister of finance went, in effect, over the entire budget of a more detailed narrative speech earlier today and I'm not going to repeat everything that had come on it or going over the entire budget bill. But I would like to use some time here today to review some of the budget programs that I believe are of particular importance and important importance, especially in the present economic situation and that we are looking forward to in the coming year. What's the most significant thing in the budget of my mind is a thing that's not self-centered at all, i.e. that in spite of the lower income of the state's funds, simply because government funds get less income, including money. through taxes, where there are less social activity because of a pandemic crown virus, the next year will not be cutting down expenses, but will simply increase in some places for temporary, energy - related, and unemployment. At times, though, the discussion might help you to think that we are discussing cutbacks. Not at all, and that alone is an enormously important economic and social factor that must be maintained. The budget bill, for example, emphasizes the importance of protecting the success that has been achieved during the election season. The road system is protected from the effects of the Covid crisis. Official investments are increasing, and thus more jobs are involved. Health, environment, and innovation contributions are greatly increased, and they are also educational and cultural. For the financial bill on page 18. 88 is a picture, or a table, in which the exchange of government funds for 2021 is shown and is of enormous value, for it actually explains where the big figures in the financial affairs of our society are. It shows that 26% of the budgets next year go into social, housing and insurance and 25% go to health care, i.e. just over half of the budget goes to what we call in the daily speech of our welfare system. This is important to bear in mind, on the one hand, when talking about protecting the welfare system from the effects of the Covid crisis and from the time we are discussing the amount of money that goes on several other issues. There we are in many places adding tremendously to, but if it's calculated as a percentage of all the funds, we can get a pretty low number if you want to go out in that number class simply because the welfare thing that I think we all care so much is so important. I love living in a society that places so much emphasis on welfare. There are more tables in the budget, both on the previous pages and after the fun page. 88 and I recommend, for those who want to understand what their taxes are and how their expenses are divided, to look at these pictures on page 20. 87, 88, and 89, for they tell us pretty soon enough about the money. I talked about protecting the welfare system today of this Covid crisis, and I think we all realize that it's extremely important to just deal with the health problems of society because of the crisis. But this means so much more than that. We protect all the rest of the welfare system, and it is also of utmost importance in this context that as soon as we are defending and maintaining basic services, we are preventing unemployment in professions, public professions, where women have much more. It is well - known that when a cutback is used in a recession and is cut down in public service, one of the things that happens is that a public service takes place in homes and becomes an unsalaried work that is often in the hands of women in the community. This is a matter of concern to me in this discussion, for by defending our well - being, we are also defending jobs, and in this case, when it comes to the health system, we are very often defending women's work and preventing increased stress that often strikes women. This is certainly important in the way we live. In fact, I think it is important that the budget is covered in some detail about the use of financing and the effect of the action being under this budget will have on the sex. It shows that a part of the injection, which I think we all agree on, is extremely important and is in the management sector, including In strengthening our road system and transport system, there are actions that are primarily useful to men. I think it's important that we understand this when we discuss these things on the budget, that it can affect the genders where the money is. It doesn't have to be bad, as it is when it comes to the road, that men work primarily, but it's important that we realize this because it tells us so much about our community and our community. the sex of the workforce. Looking at the results of a variety of transport improvements, when they have been diagnosed as tried to do in the budget, it is found that it often has a positive or positive effect on women's work and employment activities. But I think it's very important to discuss this on the budget bill, for it's one of the things we can use in the same way that the tables and the illustrations here are also to help us understand where and how money works in the community. Mr. President. Because I only mentioned that health, environmental, and innovation contributions are greatly increased in the budget, I'd like to mention some examples that are extremely relevant to health matters. It may not have to be surprising that a new hospital building thinks there's quite, quite normal. It is an enormous and complex project, which I think we all agree to make a big difference, and maybe it's pretty good now that it's important to have a lot of public activity, that we're building a hospital. However, it is also being continued on a project designed in this government by reducing the patient's payment intake further. As psychosocial services continue to increase, adolescents and children are being promoted and increased in the construction and operating of nurses. There are things that always matter at all times, whether it is a crisis or a good one. But I think we must see that because of the psychological difficulties and the psychological complexity that we are all experiencing as a result of the Covid situation, and perhaps most of all young people, it is of great importance that there is an increase. Only to the environment. During the season, there has been a 47% increase in financial contributions to that category. This is of utmost importance to the future. We need a society that has a completely different way of handling the environment. I think there's something that everybody's really agreed on. The additional contributions for innovation are being made, and contributions to investments are being made in the sceptres, the remuneration rates are being increased as well as the amount of money that have been raised during the season. More money is also being put on the Technical Development Fund and Rannis. These are factors that are important for us to get stronger out of the crisis as well as to increase the diversity of Icelandic employment. I also mentioned that educational contributions are increasing. For example, education fund is being met because of a new system of loan support and scholarship to students, but it is also because we know that already more unemployment occurs when more people study. It's money that, in my opinion, is extremely useful. The number of people who can get an artist's salary is also increasing, which I think most people well agree that is important in this Covid situation, where we have a relevant situation. heard about and saw how difficult it has been for artists, so it is a procedure in the financial bill that is of enormous importance. It may not be surprising that a contribution to the work programme is being made to 685 million. Of course, it is crucial in today's commercial situation. Here are the budgets that, as I said at the outset, are so important, that despite the decrease in income, they are not being cut down. They're increasing to include... in the health system and in the environment and innovations. Mr. President. I'd like to finally mention that although the government's income has dropped, it's still taking place that at this month's end there will be a change in the tax system we've discussed, i.e. to establish a three-stage tax system. It's going to be legalized and it's going to come to completion. This change is a major factor in reducing the tax burden on individuals with low employment income. This is of utmost importance to the survival of the households, and this is one of the things I believe is important. And I think that we who support this government have and can be very proud. Mr. President. I'm not going to discuss more details about other lawsuits than the ones I've just mentioned in this talk. Tomorrow, we will discuss a four-year financial program, and then Prime Ministers will also represent members of the Parliament's response to their sector. There will be a much deeper dive into each category, and I look forward to observing and possibly participating in that discussion. I want to finally repeat what I said in the beginning. The most significant part of the budget is that despite the lower income of state funds, we are expected to have funding that increases the welfare system and make it possible for us as a community to get strong out of the economic pressures we now face.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u79	A respectable president. Short and simple: feeling sharp. A senator would be justified in receiving the same increase as the lowest paid by biographies? And what about unemployment?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u80	Mr. President. Happily, it is not too long since unemployment rates were improved, and that is important. Likewise, income - related periods of unemployment have been extended. These are two operations that are extremely important to those who are unemployed. I believe that when it comes to the microenergy system, it was important to control the system so that those with only insurance payments can be improved. I saw at the U.S. Constitution. Department of Social Affairs will provide primary security standards for system changes because it is so important how money enters the system in order to benefit those with the lowest income. That is important when we talk about raising our payments because they are enormously low, especially in those with income only from a insurance institution and there is nothing else to do. Happily, not everyone who has the problem is a cripple. We need to see how other changes in the system have benefited people, e.g. tax system changes. So I believe that's where the emphasis should be. We need to reach out to those with the lowest benefits.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u81	A respectable president. It was a very simple question: A senator would be justified in receiving the same increase as the lowest paid by biographies? It's no more complicated than that. The answers to a bill coming later, etc., do you have to wait to answer that question until then? That's what I was wondering. So I'm gonna ask you again, "Do you feel it?" According to Article 69, it is justified by the pension of social security. Social security legislation, with the same increase as the lowest pay per biographer contracts this year, 33,750 k.?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u82	Mr. President. I'll answer that question again and try to be clear with the fact that I think it's important to direct money into the social security system so that we can improve their terms... [[...not justifying a requirement, okay.]] I'm gonna pray. A senator about not putting words in my mouth. I'm saying that I think it's important that the system is built up so that we can specifically improve the benefits of those who have no income to support themselves from the insurance agency and at the same time, we need to review our entire social security system. As we have seen in the discussions today and many times before, I think all of us agree that the system is too complicated, too much of the declines that happen to one another, and that we need to make the system simpler and clearer. And in my opinion, one of the goals is to improve the benefits of those who have only the amount that can be obtained through an insurance agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u83	A respectable president. First, I'd like to finish my duty and say that the reaction that we feel in the government's words on the increase of government spending and the decrease in taxes is good economics in this situation. In a downturn, it is normal for the public to give an injection to the economy and to reduce the fluctuations and the contrast then to the upturn. The government's comments on these their economics are one thing, but what the government decides to do with the injection is another. Also, we must ask: Is the resistance sufficient, too small, or perhaps too great? Thus, there are two challenges ahead. On the one hand, the government has to explain why 35 billion next year are sufficiently involved in counter measures, apart from the automatic spending systems, in the greatest crisis of a century. Second, the government needs to explain why the government's work is good. Why are they better than any other project? At the beginning of this discussion, I asked a simple question to the minister of finance, a fundamental question that should have been easy to answer. In view of the circumstances, are government objections appropriate? In particular, because more than less is to be done, it has been said repeatedly, especially in view of the fact that if there is no more economic growth than expected, this will require surgery in 2020. The answers to the minister of finance were predictable political outbacks, for the question was not answered but were filled with words about something far different from what was asked of us. The answer was that it would not likely be to apply the instruction, which is remarkable. Governments should be commended for applying professional and theoretical methods instead of political methods. I disagree with this, so I set aside the size of the automatic devices when I examine how the government acts. The automatic devices should work regardless of who is in charge. No matter who was in control, the cost to them would be the same. It is not a political device, just an economic and economic device. Unemployment is an economic tool for dealing with unemployment. In addition, governments need to provide appropriate measures, if necessary, or even automation settings. This is sometimes done. A temporary rise in unemployment improvements may be observed, as has been done with income connections or other actions that work on these automatic devices. However, the actions we need to consider are these special counter measures by the government, not the automatic ones, except perhaps their settings. Back to the budget bill. There are a lot of topics that need to be discussed. We need to talk about pension, community affairs, health systems, education. We need to discuss transport, innovation, and environment, and most important of all, we need to discuss the future, for ultimately the future is the most important. This is, of course, the bill on the future, the official financial situation next year. In this bill, the government's policy is before the following year - hopefully the code ends around the New Year's Eve or very early next year. Perhaps that will not happen, and then we are definitely in another position. I see this budget bill as government policy after the code, as a building bill. During 2020, we have been engaged in a defensive activity, and in my opinion, the building work was too limited. We had the opportunity to place more money in innovation right from the start, but the government did not seize it. The government now contributes the same amount in innovation as the government proposed in spring. Of course, good works are to be celebrated, but they needed this money earlier, and now more is needed because it has been found that it was definitely needed for all the funds the government put in us and that they could have used immediately during the summer. Since then, even more opportunities have come up. And if we had responded better during the summer, we would have even more opportunities now because opportunities would create new opportunities. Unemployment would cost us less, and we would earn more money because of new jobs. The key point we need to consider is the structure. That way, we'll be able to get on the state's budget again. Pitars always look to the future. Piranus are formed as a future party. There were people who saw that if we continued on a course that was being pursued, they would mean a tremendous decrease in civil rights and a community of Big Brother Orwell's would dominate us. I must say, that prophecy has been fulfilled in much of its fulfillment. If more people had listened to Pirata around the world, things would be better. Pirams, however, had some success in Europe and recently discovered the daily protection laws directly caused by Pirata's struggle. It was a big step in combating the future that Piratars provided for a decade ago, but it is still going to take many steps in that regard. We are in an interesting position in Iceland, however. We have a financial minister who looks to the future, not for solutions, but to past. We have a financial minister who always talks about Iceland 2.0, like he's some Pirati with a software update for Iceland. The problem is we should have updated at 2.0 at the turn of the century, as everyone else did. Then the update should have continued, and if we had, we'd be updating Iceland to 5.0 now. And what do I mean by that? Yes, I'm referring to the general technical update that the world has been through. This is a fitting illustration, for the development of the world's web has been a technological development of communication. And politics is little more than communication. It's also appropriate because we certainly have to update Iceland to 2.0, but we have to go way beyond that. We also need to go through updates 3, 4 and 5 quickly. We're not supposed to wait decades for the next update. The current situation, Iceland 1.0, is like the first edition on the website where we can only read and look at. There's no useful, no communication, just computer-based paper. In the 2.0 update, there is an additional possibility for users, voters in this case, to communicate. You can make comments. This is to a very limited extent today, e.g. ... withtheCommunicator'sCommunications System and Government Opportunities. However, there is a need to send a letter e - mail in order to share in that comment system. But if we look at all the administrations, we are far from in the administration of the 2.0 update protocol. It is far more extensive than simply being able to send comments back and forth. It is an effective approach to all interested persons, even to mean that governments are doing the best they can to make sure that those who are not interested are not interested. Furthermore, comments made in consultations need to be made. Consider an example. The above - mentioned agreement by the government gives Jón Ólafsson a comment concerning the writing of a bill to a administrative law about a change in constitution. It even says, by permission of the president: ▪ In the current framework of the Board of Management Board, almost no attempt is made to link proposals, arguments, and explanations to the public council, references to its unique features are random, and in a single place misleading. No systematic attempt is made to build on the consultations where its results are in accordance with the root series, and no attempt is made to explain the variation when the board is gone other than the agreement indicates that the public is supporting. There's no reason to save the big words in this. The Constitution Society, by permission of the president, says in its review: The aim seems to justify and induce people to accept a clean and complete exercise of power; that political groups in the World Council can make changes in the constitution as they seem, despite the fact that over 2/3 parts of the voters already agreed on the material basis for a new constitution announced in the council's name. Citizens seem to forget that all that is being dealt with by the Board of Directors of Governments is already being discussed and settled in a long democratic process outside and within the Generals. This course is unjustly based on moral and democratic views and should not take place in any democracy. So when a financial minister calls for a 2.0 update for Iceland, he clearly has no idea what he's talking about, that he and his government are working against the changes that this update is based on. A third update is self - efficiency and integration. We've got this update in a few places of the control system. IRS records are due to meet this update requirement. They are also involved in making plagiaries electronic and accessible. There the technical update of comments has been made to a certain amount of self - payment. It would be great to get to 3.0. That would be an enormous savings for the public, and it would also correct many of the headaches in dealing with various institutions. This is update, for example. To solve the eighth task of Ástríkur in the twelve tribulations. We'll have no problem finding permission of A38 when we've updated Iceland to 3.0. 4.0 is such a huge update. It's about access to data. Does anyone know it? As with the 3.0 update, we already refer to this update in public funds open accounts. But that is only the beginning of what should be available to all. The possibility of a 4.0 update is endless and is necessary for the fifth update focused on a public service tailored to each individual personal service. When we get Iceland 5, the government can take the initiative to preserve rights. You don't have to look for the reimbursement of a valuable tax that you have a right to. You get it because you're entitled to it and you don't have to get in trouble applying for it. Secretary of finance wants to install an old operating system. Iceland 2.0 is an old operating system that the government put in a drawer. It's not a vision to pick it up and dust it off because we don't need a 20-year-old operating system that doesn't even know what smartphones are. Let's go to some classic politics, so people in this house might have a little interest in this. There are many subjects that we need to discuss in this discussion. There are areas in rural society, health, education, transportation, and innovation. Because it's 1st. ... let me keep a little more detailed discussion to the 2nd. After we have received reviews from the public. But if I skim over these issues as they appear to me on the budget bill, then the Senate needs to take a real good look at them. The rural population is affected by the lack of income because of unemployment, but it also suffers from a loss of income because of the balance fund. In fact, they suffer a double limit of their income stocks for the same reason. It's a very strange arrangement, since if rural society has to borrow to carry out legal tasks, everyone will lose, including government funds. But government funds are far better equipped to finance such losses than their societies. This is a problem with farm income, we all know it, but nothing's been done about it. The farm stocks simply don't cover the tasks that their communities do. It's a known problem. I suspect that the rural communities are simply being starving to unity. If so, it is a dishonest methodology. Although Ministers of finance say that the rural community is an independent administrative level with independent income institutions and is technically right, it is so wrong in so many other ways. Governments and societies cooperate as public members. This cooperation is not on equal terms, far from that. The state has much more access to the council, which in certain cases seems to be a classic minister's office. By doing so, the European Commission has provided enormous access to the legislation and the definition of the income stocks of the rural community. There are tremendous odds. The government has rural communities in a specific kind of handout relationship, where income institutions in the rural community are high enough to carry out legal tasks. No government seems to have been willing to fix that problem for various reasons, both good and bad. More recently and especially in a scene, you would say that it was for bad reasons, I at least, or for selfish reasons. Selfishness is not good. After all, education and innovation are the key to the future. We need to take care of education, basic research, and care for opportunities there. It's a joy to be finally adding more money to innovation and research than I suspect, considering the information we receive, that there are still more opportunities to use, and if ever to use them, it is now. I'll call for information on the state of the Committee. We need a good overview of the distribution and application of all the major innovation funds and the status of the educational system. So - called calculus is used to calculate how much colleges and colleges get for each student, and it has been ignored for a very long time to update it. This is because the next stage of an upgrade is very large, there are a lot of students in the back, so this update costs a lot. That's when everything stops. It's very important. But I don't see any changes in the education system. The only changes I see are meeting more students. It's just as much money as the students that are already in the system, but it's just as little money for each student as it's been before. Then there are health and transportation. I think it's a little ridiculous to hear the government boast of growing financial contributions in these areas. These areas have simply been starving for a long time. We have a great debt in these areas, yes, we are in debt, and we had to pay off that debt. There is nothing remarkable about the increase in health and transportation resources. This was necessary, and everyone knew, and everyone promised it before the election. This is another example of how the government probably feels the need to give a hand for doing what needs to be done. Like a financial minister who wanted to be commended for using automatic economy. There's nothing important about it. I'm just sure it is. Eventually, there's so much pension and environment. In my opinion, these and professional matters are the greatest challenges. I'm going to end the discussion on that topic matter. I've already been talking about the business, i.e. The future and the innovation, but the environment is just as important to the future. In Iceland, however, the environmental effects of climate change may not be huge in the near future, so many may find it difficult to give the attention they need. It is easier to focus on avalanche shielding, as an example, that provides an additional 1.6 billion for climate protection of 1 billion because there were many avalanches in the last winter. It is normal to deal with such situations with increased financial resources. But we are less likely to see the consequences of global warming and even less so how this will affect Iceland. Still, the problem remains hanging over us like snowpans that just grow bigger and bigger. It would be better to have your goods done before it goes down, not after it falls. Maybe we'll be lucky as we were in the winter. We didn't have much to remember, but maybe we'll get lucky. We still have an adequate climate program that explains how we are going to reach set goals, how much it costs, and what the benefits of that plan are. You see, the current operation plan is only half the way we're going. We already see the impact of climate change in many parts of the world. Uncommon environmental events occur more frequently, more flooding, more drought, more heat waves, greater extremes. Even if the changes are already causing damage, we still control them. The problem is that adjusting to the changes will cost us tremendously. That's the problem. We don't want to spend money adjusting to change. We simply want to avoid adjusting, and we do so by preventing such climate changes. Large areas now inhabited will be uninhabitable. That means people moving and building elsewhere. Large territories that have been called the bread crops of the world will dry up and will not be able to live up to their names. They'll have to grow up and build a new basket area. It'll take time. A direct impact on Iceland may not be much, the greatest uncertainty is the acidification of the sea and the rise in sea levels and the Golf currents and the natural glaciers as we pass and the energy production is present, but there are other solutions to fix it before it does, less problems there. The problem, on the other hand, is global, and we must solve our share of the problem. True, it is small in a global sense, for we are a small nation, but it can never be an excuse for doing nothing. Our share is relatively larger than our smallness in the international community. And if the little ones get away with doing nothing, the big ones use the same argument. And where to draw the line? She must not be dragged anywhere, everyone must participate. Finally, we need to discuss pensions, not the pension fund, although they certainly need to be discussed. This is why we need to talk about the pension of social security. In the budget bill, the pensions raise social security by 3.6% at New Year's Eve. This is just as well as a projection of general pay development in the country next year. That's how the Social Security Act works. It's been shown here in the government case that this is only the law. Pension should increase as much as general pay development or inflation, whichever is higher. The pension is thus insured and also rewarded. The problem is that pensions go up according to forecasts, not according to real inflation or real remuneration. As a result, pensions have lost at least 50% from the turn of the century. He should be 50% higher. The prophecy has failed repeatedly. For just six times in the past 23 years, the forecast has been higher than that. The interpretation that pensions just rise as predicted is the decision. That's the decision made by the Ministry of Economics to interpret the law. That's not an automatic interpretation, and in my opinion it's an incorrect interpretation. The problem facing us in this budget bill is not just that pensions increase only 3.6%, which will probably increase less than the salary of members of Congress, even relatively, just as pensions only increased by 3.5% at the last year's pay while members increased by 6.3%. The problem we face today is the biographer contracts, or rather told, that pensioners do not get biographies. Biography agreements were aimed at increasing the lowest rates of pay. That means if pensions increase as a mean increase, that's a much lower ratio than the lowest salary. Consider an example in which one has a hundred thousand dollars. in pay, one has a million and one has 10 million. If we raise the pay by 10,000 bucks. the person with the lowest salary will increase by 10%, the server will increase by 1% and the highest salary will increase by 0.1%. The mean increase in this system is 0.27%. On the other hand, if we all raise our salary by the same percentage, they get the highest salary rate in the dollar number than those with the lowest salary will increase at least in the dollar number. However, the relative differences remain the same between all wages. The problem we now have is that pensioners get the average increase of 0.27%, not 10,000 bucks. Like everybody else gets. This means that pensioners will receive both the increase that has reduced their pensions by more than 50% in two decades and are missing biographies. I got a little dumb when I saw this on the budget bill. If there's something we need to fix on the bill, that's it. This is a future problem. It's a huge flaw on the bill. Last time, Pirantar and I proposed a new proposal to correct this loss that the government rejected. But now we propose a proposal to fix this problem with the biographies, and I hope the council accepts it well. It's in a forward-looking document that everyone has access to on the front and on the Internet. Obviously, they also point to unemployment insurance, but they need to add biographies as well, on the other hand, on the other hand, health benefits. It's not the ones that have been dealt with right now, it shouldn't be necessary. The amount of unemployment benefits would not be appropriate if the decision was made to continue their income related unless, in part, it would affect the lowest wage in exactly the same way as the biography contracts do so that the amount would be lower than it is in the change. Therefore, the committee needs to review the figures slightly and how other decisions are made together. Generally speaking, Pirantar is a future party. We look to the future and form a pattern, a society based on a prosperous economy that is getting started in a financial program today, very joyful. At present, however, these standards are indistinguishable, but they are good first steps. However, we see other changes that are taking place in the near future that we need to consider in public financial matters. There is a measure of self - destructiveness that is about to pass over. It's automation, which is part of the 5.0 update we should be on the road to infiltrate. But no, we're long, far behind. This self - destructive trend has a major impact on our job life and the problem that lies in front of us today is our job life, our unemployment. With increased self - efficiency, jobs are reduced, but they have always been told: There are new jobs. Yeah, it's been right so far. That does not mean that it will continue to be right. Furthermore, it works in a way that the new jobs they started are not as long as the work they started. New jobs will be later self - induced. Then let's continue to develop for a few more laps. A new job that may have developed may have been a life span of ten years before it has been self - induced. A job that takes place may have a five-year life span before it becomes self-active, etc. There will be inevitable changes in how human employment comes about in the decades ahead. This is something we need to look out for and think about. What should the economy look like in that environment? We're seeing a certain energy revolution, finally. There's a very green revolution going on. I only saw news yesterday about a certain circuit that simply generates its own electricity, works on a very small amount of energy, but works anyway. There's progress in super-secure batteries, which are highly environmentally friendly. This energy revolution will wipe out the lead we have in green energy, the building of dams and dropwaters to create energy will become much more troublesome and not nearly as environmentally sustainable as any of the benefits that come to offer us in the coming decades. We're seeing an enormous revolution in agriculture, e.g. with a carnivore I've talked about here all the time. When I first spoke about it, the agricultural minister didn't even know what I was talking about, I thought I was talking about some protein powder. I hope people have learned something since then. It is now more than a hundred years old technology that is approaching mass production. When that happens, we explain the need for a number of animal productions for human consumption. It will be tremendously good for the conditions we see today, e.g. for the pandemic. Many of these multi-drug resistant bacteria and epidemics begin at just those places where animals are, between them, or because of antibiotics, etc. All that causes us to be far better equipped to cope with the future - looking age. Their origins are far more predictable than they are now. All over the world, there is an animal culture that has very little control, as we have seen in China. We also see the opening of the bioavailability of the production resulting in a change in everything. The conclusion is that our future society will not be like what we live in today. If we look at solutions that were used 20 years ago, we will be able to sit back with a painful forehead when progress finally strikes us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u84	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's carriage before the talk. Much was interesting, and without a doubt much of it is available. A senator came in and mentioned the committee's work ahead of discussion. I'll think about it. A senator had been discussing many resistant bacteria and lost the word here, somehow in his head, just before I got to the counter. Hv. A senator entered an automatic swing regulator. We use it a lot in our discussion, an automatic swinger. I disagree. A senator in one way. Of course, we agree that it is proper and reasonable to allow them, as they are being done, to work hard through the government's budget, thus using their financial resources. And because of what? A senator says it's just a matter of fact, then history has taught us that it's not always. It's on the side of the income. The taxes are shrinking, thus reducing the income of the state's budget, which may be the rapid drop in income that the state's budget is going to be like the entire economy and is actually the reason for the tilt because we're maintaining the cost level. As this is on the income side, I'd also like to say that we're validating the tax system changes to form income taxes that will fully enter next year. Whether a man wanted to slow it down or not is all we can ask. It's always a decision. I'm going to get to the reform system, which is on the other side of the second answer. So I don't agree with what. I'm sure it's a matter of business for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u85	A respectable president. At any rate, the recipe is reducing the amount of charge and extra expenses. That's the general recipe. The government is applying the general recipe that has certainly not been done before. The last time we went through a recession, there was an argument over whether a cut or this method should be the right way to use it. We've learned another lesson since then. What, though, is done with these actions? The important thing is how to reduce the size of the loans and how expenses are increased. A lot of this is our automatic systems, like unemployment improvements, etc. Those expenses are available on anyone. Special decisions on how to reduce the budget are varied in various ways. It can be criticized for e.g. that inflation binds capital taxes, that it is specifically being chosen to be tax-based to reduce spells. Or the inheritance tax, it's interesting to be selected above anything else. This is something we can discuss in one way or another. I'm just saying in general that this methodology, the reduction in the pressures and costs, is the correct methodology, but how it's more precise then we can argue. On the other hand, I take aside the systems that are already installed to deal with the fluctuations, with these automatic rhythms, that are not supposed to have to make a special decision to use. If the government decides to adjust it in some way, such as. to add a income connection, which is of interest and is, in effect, an extra procedure on the top of the other. But the budget bill suggests that there are 35 billion in special counter measures, that I watch, and that is what the financial bill says.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u86	V.E.G. President. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson agrees that it is reasonable and logical economics to allow the reformers and tax collectors to act automatically and effectively through the government budget, so I do not intend to pave this role. However, it is always necessary to make a decision not to move on. But the way it is done matters too, and I agree with it. A senator now realizes that this is important in the discussion that lies ahead and the decisions made. When we were in the spring months to raise funds, we were designed to take action, part - time witnessing, and there we place a lot of money that comes with even greater force by means of the available transfer systems. It still puts extra power through the government's budget. A positive example of this is the prolongation of the unemployment period, which will also work in a comparable way. What may be needed to fill this discussion is when we run a government fund with this high angle and talking about how it's just about how it's about, of course, this 1,000 billion budget, when it's only 700 billion, you can ask yourself: " How are we going to face it to the future and consider the basics of public financial law? Then I'm referring to sustainability, stability, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u87	A respectable president. That is exactly where my criticism begins, the effect of individual decisions. We need to know that if we want to know what decisions we should extend, we need to know. We're extending, for example. income connection to jobs that do not return until 1923? The goal of the government is to get 2 million tourists here, 223, not 2026. There is a staging analysis in the financial program that indicates that if it does not, there is a need for postoperative surgery. This is what I see from the budget bill. What I don't see, however, is the structure I see. A senator, chairman of the legal committee, pointed out to make the state funds sustainable again. I see 35 billion on special counter measures directly from financial programmes, directly from the budget. I don't see how the 35 billion people are going to help us become self-sustained again during the financial period. There's nothing explained. It's part of the problem I've always been criticizing here. There's no need for a fucking cost-abundance analysis - excuse my language, but I've said it so often it's appropriate. Without them, we cannot say that this operation is better than the other operation. And when we have limited financial resources, especially now, we are making decisions to increase the angle of 50 or 100 billion, it is important that the action we choose to pay up that later, because it is supposed to be a lucrative operation. But without having that diagnosis, we're just guessing. Once again, we're guessing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u88	V.E.G. President. We are discussing a bill for the budget of 2021. On the contrary, time is two minutes, and I just got back to what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, who would be tempted to continue that discussion. I hear what you're saying. A senator has asked for an answer, so I called this upon myself, the highest. President. V.E.G. The financial and economic minister handled the subject of the bill in his history, and now I want to mention it here, as many others have. Today, members of Parliament have mentioned in the discussion that in the circumstances we are dealing with, there may be a very special situation in which we discuss concomitantly with the budget reviewing of financial programmes for the period 2021◯2025. In fact, that discussion is held tomorrow, but we will then discuss these matters for release both at the council and before. It's a legal committee. Thus, the traditional policy - policy, plan, budget - is cut off. In a sense, but this also highlights the serious situations we are dealing with and perhaps one smells of the conditions we live and are dealing with. In this discussion, which in many ways is very good, you are in some way crying out that the biggest uncertainty factor is the virus itself and its consequences, the rocky channel we are walking around in this treatment prevention and the health problems associated with the virus and the economic consequences associated with it. In this respect, it can be said that the epidemic is a great many, and then it is, in fact, the most economic uncertainty factor, and it colors the policy and plans for the 2021 budget and, to a much greater extent, I want to mean, than the usual economic outlooks and forecasts that are discussed in the report by the bill. When it comes to the pandemic, there is no economic ratings that are fairly predictable, nor are we looking at the basis for the budget that we are used to view as measurable and based on predictions of the major national profits, total demand and overall profits in the economy, single components that make up the overall demand, private consumption, shared consumption, investments, exports and imports. True, they are there, but uncertainty is more than usual and more than I can remember. This is the case, talking about premises, mismaskings, and enormous time - related uncertainty. The passing amount of time will really be vast, crucial to the degree and duration of this crisis. We have to talk about a crisis because it's fast and deep and lasts for some time that we can't tell. Therefore, there is uncertainty about the impact on these economic and economic performances and the economic standards we support as a basis for the economy, for economic growth, employment level, unemployment, GDP, and expectations. However, the projections make it very clear that the more serious situation and the loss of income between industry, management, rural society, and the State Fund is presented in this financial bill. I think, more dignified President, we must endeavor to respect these circumstances, so to speak. Then I'd like to refer to it when we make decisions to meet the situation best. I hear it only during the discussion and this conversation we've had here today - we go to a little bit of the time when we were putting up with the budget proposals to deal with the situation -- that we all agreed that there would be a great deal to react with the money and to use the strong position the state funds had certainly come in and built up in recent years, without me perhaps going to trace it. But after we took these actions, which were over 100 billion in three budget primarys, very unusual, we need to recognize the inadequacy of not having all the information available and making decisions, let alone predict where, when, and how evolution will be. We are in the third wave called the epidemic, and there is increased stress on the health system. This is what I'm talking about and we need to respect these circumstances. The virus is in this respect, as some good man put it last day, unpredictable and unreasonable. Then there was one good trainer who said when he came out of a fever that she was striped and shrunk. This is somehow what we're all dealing with. Still, we are just trying to get in the way of what is enough without knowing exactly and having all the information about what is behind and how far we should take instructions on public finances, on the basis of which baseline we should take into consideration. I think we have to respect these circumstances in view of the government and how we use them to protect the economy of homes and businesses and to protect the vulnerable groups of society. We need to move on in this, keep some balance between the disease prevention and the economic effects it produces. We've seen, and even. has been presented in a linear context, how harder disease prevention measures play a major role in reducing economic activities, as soon as we have to protect and maintain the economy in some way that it has sheltered and it may have been the right time, to ensure that the economy continues. Well, it's not a good word, but I'm gonna use it here because we have a lot of companies in which the demand crisis is huge, the income drop along with an extremely high level, and we're trying to keep seawater in order to resist when it comes to world normal. When a Covid-19 pandemic was born here, the first reactions in the spring months and in the summer were to protect jobs and a worsening cash market where everyone joined to meet a quick drop in income, a worsening cash status, and to care for the financial resources of the companies holding on the job. These were normal measures, such as part - time witnessing, remuneration, and financial services were included on that bus. I came to the firm position of the State Fund, making it possible for us to react freely. It's important. With a stable position, we can confidently respond despite the urgency of uncertainty. The goal, then, was to evict us, as was often said, in the hope of a temporary epidemic. I don't think we necessarily wondered at the point that we would be here in October to discuss in conjunction with the budget and financial programmes and would be in the third wave of the epidemic with the frightening numbers we see in the number of people infected from day to day. I don't think any of us can claim what measures will be enough, whether on the contaminant side or on the economic side. This is some kind of equilibrium that I can at least say nothing about, but we're trying to collect this financial bill and the financial programme for the next year. There I feel that public financial law has proved its value. The usual process is that we have a policy that we didn't plan to change into a perfect period of time, but we've made a two-way transition, which highlights what we've been dealing with, at least in these circumstances. We try to maintain a cycle of policies, even though we are discussing concomitantly with a policy-based financial programme and the more detailed objectives on which to take action and then the budgets, where these actions, the implementation of the targets are to be published. So we are trying to respect it by delaying the budget, by looking into the future, and by looking at what we can endure. What can we do? How far, though, can we take the angle facing us right now in the next year? I think this conversation about when it's enough will continue. In our coverage of what? A financial committee must consider this from the topic areas. I'm not going in this speech, the highest. Mr. President, to enter a unique topic area as they appear in the budget bill, that is, I keep into the discussion and discussion that lies ahead of the committee and in conversation with the members who come to give us reviews about the matter. You might say, if you try to put it in some context, one third of the level of service we've built up, the size of the budget shown here is borrowed. This is how it can be said because we have increased expenses. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson now considered raising health expenses only for himself because it had built up a large debt over the years with the infrastructure that built up that system. If we take medical, welfare, and educational expenses, and there may be some of these basic systems that we all respect in politics and add to the interest paid by these debts, that is, in any way, the income we look at until the next year. This does not cover half of the resources we are funding, and there are about 15 topic areas available within these areas, health services, well-being and culturally, of 35 topic areas. Then all the other sectors, everything else we're doing - we're making a posetti decision to maintain the financial level - are being borrowed. All the Covid procedures and all the decisions we make afterward will be borrowed. Is that wise? Is that logical in these circumstances? I'm sure he will. I'm convinced of that. But let us look at it in this context. On the contrary, when we respect the circumstances, I would like to say that we can show understanding that new expenditures are limited by pandemic crown virus. This is shown in an article on page 19. 94 with the bill, with President's permission: A charge case of other injury will have to be financed within the current framework. This goal is clearly reflected in the bill in that changes from the current budget are mainly due to the response to the epidemic and its consequences, e.g. increased unemployment costs, temporary increases in income-related unemployment improvements, and increases in high school and college students. This is an example of how policy measures in this situation are presented in financial expenses. At the same time, any specific extenuating arrangements are held, and no further precautionary requirements are adopted in 2021 rather than this year. In this respect, a security guard and a great deal of emphasis is placed on protecting the transfer systems as set out in a current financial program. That's what I'm talking about, chief. President, when I talk about us trying to respect the circumstances. However, I am confident that there will be much that we will be able to discern when it comes to the work that lies ahead. There are a number of points that have been discussed in this discussion, and I can totally agree, and we need to examine and analyze. I'm just going to review the review of the review of the financial Council's review from the beginning of September to finance policy reviews, transparency here is a complete password, and we'll be very good at it, even though we don't have all the information that could guide us on the best decisions to make. We draw out all the available information that helps us to make logical decisions on how to protect the standard of living, which, of course, is a ongoing task. But I'll just let it go for a while, tops. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u89	President. We were in a conversation earlier that we finished discussing how to guess which actions were good and what actions were not good. So I wanted to ask you why. Chairman of a financial committee: What can we do to get the government to comply with government laws on public finances and to give us the analysis to follow the budget and financial programmes? I think it's a really simple question, and I've asked her a lot of questions. I don't understand why it can't be delivered, and we get what we're supposed to get by law. At any rate, I imagine the General could say, "Stop, we don't do any more. " We can make no decisions about whether we should do this or not until we have these analyses. But for some reason, the General Assembly has just entered a button: It should be all right, we rely on it to be all right. But it's come out of nowhere that it's just not all right. I'm interested in the work of the Committee. Can we do this a little differently? We do not need all the sources of comments to tell us what their review says. It would be very appropriate for us to look at the reviews and perhaps send out more questions about the details of them or if something is really complicated, we could choose them to come. We could use the time the committee has to be in this clear, close conversation with the Ministry about why this operation is not so good for the rest to get out of the code in the future. Where are your priorities? If we don't get out of our plans as easily as I think we've always done so far, maybe something's gonna get better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u90	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for the questions. They're very good, but I expected them to have a good time. A senator continued to discuss measures and how we make decisions that are involved in the use of financial matters. Of course, such questions involve questions. Senator on the committee. What can we do to call out for information? Right away. A senator gave his talk, and others here today, I wrote to myself that in the list of interest projects, we would need to make clear why these tasks were selected in excess of others who were not chosen. I think it's very important, and I agree with it. There is one thing that really does ask a question. Senator. It's that the information just doesn't exist when we call out for it. Sometimes we don't get them at all. It's very pathetic. I'm sorry, but I can't answer it any different than that, so we have to continue to be intervening in the evaluations of what information is necessary and important to the committee and pretty cruelly to draw them out. Of course, regarding the work of the Committee and preparing for further questions, we are in the committees of all categories, and we may look at things differently when we read the reviews. Then perhaps the easiest way to bring it on in the conversation. I think it's very important that we have the conversation with reporters and those who want to come to us and express their views deeply. Admittedly, however, we can make more use of our time. Yes, it is possible. I'll try to answer it better in the second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u91	A respectable president. I won't add much more than what. A senator spoke of transparency, so I wondered a little. This year, we've gone through some extra cash, back and forth. We've made decisions very fast. In just a week, we have provided funds that come in part against the promise that there is much transparency in the decisions on how the funds will be used. I'd like to ask you what. The chairman of a legal committee, though I know the answer: Has there been any information on how the funds have been handled since our first financial decision? Have we considered any post - analysis to see if the decisions we made on such short notice have yielded the results we expected? And if our actions did not produce results, why did we not expect them to do so if they were actually to have some initial success? But as I said before, we do not know what the results of the operation were due to be because we will never receive information. We are in a very difficult situation when it comes to financing the budget. We will consider this: Yes, did you use it and then change the project like this? Was it what you expected, or was it more or less, or what exactly? We're always out of the air because there's always a guess, so I'll end it now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u92	V.E.G. President. I'm just going to finish with the Committee's work ahead of me and taking the time to send questions ahead and after. We'd love to. We may have been able to send more questions first. We've done so, and it's always been good. Then, of course, there's something that comes up in a conversation that we found that we'd rather know about. Then we would like to ask for a memo and send questions that will help us make more use of our time so that more will come out of the meeting. Regarding the transparency, I received this discussion by means of a secretary in order to take up the effect of the operation. Actually, I didn't use it in my speech. There's a lot of money in the budget bill. It's a different topic area and it's quite varied. A financial adviser gave us the need to follow through on the transparency, the extravagance of these actions, the objective of them and their effects. This is very important and, of course, is just the work ahead of us. I haven't seen a complete assessment of it. It must be acknowledged. I only confirmed here that I agree with what's happened. Senator. We must call and draw out the amount of money, why, the results, and whether it worked. I think the lesson for this too is important to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u93	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u94	Mr. President. For discussion, there is a budget for 2021 in all the uncertainty and not all the conditions that need to be described in many words. I just want to say in the beginning that it's important that we figure it out, and just draw it out as fast as possible. The chairman of the budget board began with his talk, with the largest economic uncertainty in all of this condition today, the epidemic we face. He cannot be predicted. I don't think we initially suspected our first action that he would be as long. Out of the economy, 8% of the country's production is gone, a major drop in the community that is reflected in the payload of state funds. I think it's very important that we realize that the state funds, while he is getting ready for this economic crisis into this crisis and this state, are very serious when we look for a longer time. It is not easy to see that we are contributing to a relatively short time from 30% of national production to 50% in debt. While compared with the Icelandic State Fund in a better position than the state funds in many other countries, this is what we must always keep in mind when we discuss next year's budget and as much as tomorrow when we discuss the financial agenda for the next year. Why do I pull this out? In many ways, since the weekend before and until our discussion today, the debate on the budget bill has improved very much. I'll let me say this because when we're presented and presented, there are a number of normal opinions about it, and there's a lot of statements, but I can sense today's debate that no matter where we are, we're looking in the front of the cold reality. That's the uncertainty. It is uncertain about the duration of the epidemic and of the community coming out of this epidemic. We've had the focus of all our efforts to preserve production equipment, that the resistance can become powerful, and hopefully we'll succeed. But neither do we, a respectable president, know the state in which we come out of this epidemic nor how the world itself will react. Maybe we're looking at times that are completely different from when we were standing here at the same time last year and discussing the budget bill for the past year and the expectations we had at the time. We may look at the faces of a completely different world, a completely different reality when this epidemic is over, or we have learned to live with it. Now I don't know if it's going to be possible to say it's over, but how we're going to work with him. I think I'll draw it out of all the talks that have been delivered today on the budget bill that it's what we're dealing with and it's so important that we figure it out. Then again the question can be asked: Is this the right reaction to the financial bill? This is where we continue to lower income tax. Here's a 14 billion income tax reduction established at the lowest level of income. Here's a down payment. Here, large sums of money are still being added, consistent with the budget of a year's development, which has been added by means of financial contributions to the investments of public projects. All of these are factors that help us maintain the power of money, preserve society, and produce tools, so that we can maintain strong resistance. We can then have many opinions about whether there should be more there or less on the other side. But the main thing is, just like the other. The chairman of the legal committee discussed earlier, that these are the reactions we make today, and we need to understand how they play. One factor that I have been following during the discussion today that has been a few red thread here is whether this reaction is effective. But while men count out the budget bill how many billions are going to expand their jobs and create resistance, I just want to say that the government will never be the only one that will build up jobs. The Kingdom can contribute to the pursuit and to the high value, for what the government fund looks at in front of us and the reality is that in two years, 100 billion will go to unemployment. The wealth of money needs to be the main thing, like society all over it, not just the state's budget, that here is the resistance to the restoration of valuable things. The government will never be alone, and therefore there are other incentives for primes related to the budget, such as tax returns to investments, as well as other factors to help with the application, far more important. We may not be able to put a clear price on them, but they all aim to the point that we will stop this bleeding as soon as possible. One hundred billion for unemployment in a short period of time is an enormous one. There is another way to say that in this financial and financial bill, which we discuss tomorrow, and you are tempted to make it a bit of a subject, since it is closely related to the subject that we are discussing the future debt collection of funds. For example, the financial plan is not easy to stop the debt collection compared to the current economic forecasts, in order to restore the government's financial affairs. Hv. Birgir This afternoon Þórarinsson's children spoke about how long it would be to balance a government fund in five years. I can agree with him that it is such a long time, and in fact, I believe that resistance can become much more powerful and more powerful if that is the case. But the big thing is, we're looking at it in the face that if the economy doesn't get faster, we're going to have to deal with a lot of contractions in the years ahead. It will be the political subject, natural. Now we have the special situation that one year remains of the terms of this government. That's why I say that the way the government puts up a financial plan in this way; it calls attention to how to stop the debt collection, how to deal with with the controls, is responsible, and not expand it in any detail, because it will be a normal subject for those who work here during the next term. This is summed up as if I appreciated the discussion on the budget bill today. Of course, we can pick up a number of items on the budget that we like and resent from where we are in politics and what interests and what seminars each member burns. But I'm not gonna do that, and there'll be a lot more careful discussion, as often in the 2nd. About the budget bill. I'd like to close this brief input by saying that the state funds status is serious and that we should associate with the discussion of the budget and budget tomorrow, with the thought that most important things are that we can again create jobs and create valuables at the same time as we use the strong status of state funds to protect our systems, our welfare systems, our education systems, and our health systems, to deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u95	Mr. President. I have requested that the chairman of the legal committee sit here in the hall while I give my talk. Has the President delivered that request to me?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u96	Yes, Mr. President did.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u97	And how did that request come about?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u98	There hasn't been an answer yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u99	No response received. That's a little bad, because I can go on badly unless I know what I'm doing. A senator, chairman of the legal committee, is listening. Surely the chairman of the Committee has left the house when we discuss this important policy plan, which he then takes the lead in working with.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u100	President thinks he's gonna do it. There's a senator in the house. He spends a lot of time in this house, so it may be that he hears the talk, even though he is not in the hall. I think it's right. However, a member of the body will continue his talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-05-3.u101	At worst, I can send him the link through the net. Mr. President. The United States Group member of the budget board has reviewed the big picture and our big emphasis is in the United States, and I don't have to repeat it here. However, I would like to mention a few things that are very important to me. The management committee will take a special look, as it is so, Mr. President, that this crisis affects the people of the country as well as the companies. Some homes are well - off and have not had much money to pay. Some rural communities are even well - off and have not suffered a major loss of income. But then there are other homes and other companies and other rural areas that bear the weightiest load in this crisis. That is why it is so important that we keep our eyes on them. First thing I want to do is talk about the local situation. In some rural communities, the answer to the nearby service, the answer to the services of the disabled, to the children, and to older citizens, and to all of that, has been greatly lost. In the rural population where the response has been most severe, that is the most stressful form of community service. It puts the greatest pressure on social services, child protection, and extramarital resources to disrupt social isolation in older individuals. Another source of income, the equal treasure, has also fallen because it is linked to a government fund. If the income of the state's budget goes down, the balance will go down. Then there is the third income stock, which may be less economicized, but it has been called upon to reduce expenses during these difficulties. It is, of course, a requirement, which is also natural in this situation, that our rural society does not bring together, but keeps on building schools and repairing and maintaining buildings to maintain the level of employment as well. When we've been talking about this to the executives in the United States, whether it's the highest. Ministers or anything. Councilmen, are somehow the answer to the fact that society must be owed just as a trust fund. It just has to be like that. But that is a very poor answer because, of course, it is different according to rural society who are creditors. The city and its largest rural societies in the capital area may be quite acceptable, but this is not the case in many lands. If this is the case in my rural society, there is a limited amount of employment, services and social services, as well as the needs of the children and the people who need it, people move away. That's why I say, "If the ultimate." Not only does a government look at the problems of the local community but it does not bring special support there, especially in the areas where the problem is greater, it is not just a poor policy of welfare but it is a legacy policy; of course, people will leave where there is no work or service. If we look out to the Norwegian states, we will see that our brothers in the Northern countries are doing well with their rural communities, putting their arms around them and the people to make sure that their service is not disturbed during these difficult times. I hope so. Members of this body who serve on a financial committee give special consideration to the local community's affairs and keep in mind the people who are in need of their services in these difficult times, and they are especially looking at national parts. I can mention Southnes because there is only a clear example of parts of the country that must focus on the services of the local community, on the social services, on child care, on the school ministry, on the services of disabled persons, and on older ones. Mr. President. It's the communities I'm asking members of the council and representatives at the moment. The body of elders to examine specifically. What I want to name number two are pensioners. The financial bill is based on the increase in pensions and disability and rehabilitation rates by 3.6%. Of course, this is much less than it has been during the pay period, and by this step it will further break between those who need to rely on the insurance system and those on the lowest salary or pay bill. There are 19,284 invalids who are entitled to recover, of whom 5,681 carry household chores. These are the latest information from the Corporate Community. But when you talk here about the payment the poor have to rely on, you always talk about a basic pension plus a home plan. But home - to - house work is a social help. The basic pension is only 255,000. During 2020, and with the increase in the budget bill, this payment goes to just over 265,000 dollars. next year. In the meantime, your insurance will or your minimum wage will be up to 351,000. of January 1, 2021, so it is still falling apart. In addition, the pay market has been replaced for ten years, the dollar itself. It was 109,000 bucks. 2010, and it still is. If this amount had followed pay development, it should be at least 200,000 dollars. Therefore, President, it is obvious that this system must be examined, and it is obvious that it is built up by injustice in this system. And if I get the right part of this bill, there are no steps other than the ones that have been taken in recent years. It was about disability and rehabilitation. The rest of it is the law of the law and the older citizens. Finnur Birgisson has written about that subject and explained the subject of community media. I'll allow myself, Mr. President, to quote him when he says: I have been publishing here comparing the development of pension for the last 10 years with the development of a minimum wage and a pay number. The Social Security Act makes it clear that during annual decisions on changes to baseline social security insurance, salary development should be taken into account. However, the information I have published clearly shows that this law has been repeatedly broken, year after year, and so there has been a major miscalculation between pension and pay. If anyone thinks it's some small thing or minor inaccuracies, that's a big misunderstanding. It's about high sums that make a big difference for those who have everything they need to pay their social security money. In numbers, this is what it looks like: In 2010, the pension was 153,500 dollars. a month, but this year it's 256,800 bucks. If he had gone up like the pay sheet, he would now be $297,600. 40,800 k. higher. If he had gone up like a minimum wage, he would now be 313,500. or a total of 56,700 bucks. higher! It's a lot less than that in people who have nothing else to live on than these TRs. Finnur Birgisson shows how the difference between pension and the lowest wage has always improved and improved in the past ten years. They need to be stopped. I hope that the financial committees, which some countries have made, would be unable to afford in these difficult times, even for just four months or so, would receive one payment. This has been done successfully by Australians. I know their systems are different from ours, but they put in monopolizes for the unemployed and for the pensioner, not just for the use of their homes, but for the benefit of their economy. Then some bike would start. Both the home and the economy would make money if we cleaned up our plans and set aside one payment for those at the very lowest payment. Of course, it is shameful for us, this rich nation, that we do not see the situation better. I know that now is a difficult time for a government fund, but it's not that we should look at this problem and that we should not plan on how we want to handle it, how we want to improve the equation. If we're going to do that, if we want to increase the equation, we're going to let the benefits go with pay development. That's what we're supposed to do if we don't want it to disintegrating, and I'm dealing with a real wage development. Theoreticians have pointed out that we generals are being paid back in time. The reward development is evaluated, and we will enjoy the real pay development while the disability are always on some schedule that is not corrected, and it also leads to a mismanagement of all of this. Finally, Mr President, I'd like to discuss unemployment and unemployment benefits. Hv. A senator standing in that talk before me spoke of paying no less than 100 billion on unemployment. Somehow, I felt like it was like it was a big deal of the highest. Government and government. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator protests, and I trust that he will respond to me later. Of course, that is because the hired men have won this right. They have earned this right, and there are a lot of employees out of work, and that's why the amount is so high. Mr. President. I'd like to slide over unemployment numbers. The newest unemployment standards published by the Labour Organization show that Southnes suffer most from unemployment, approximately 18%. There is 18% living in the part of the country just over 30,000 people. All of this country's unemployment is 9.4%. Then, there are a lot of differences between parts of the country. In the West, it is estimated to be 3.2%, in the Northern West 3.7%, in the East 4.2%, and in the capital area 9.9%, with a total below. Thus, thousands of people in the capital area are out of work. But as I said at the beginning of my speech, this crisis, this crisis of employment, in different parts of the land, and, of course, sectoralities, and, Mr. President, goes on. It's, for example. Thus, in Southnes, 18% of total non-employment is 21% unemployment among women and 16.1% male unemployment. And in almost every part of the country, unemployment among women is more than men. It is so strange, therefore, that the measures taken by the government are largely traditional men's activities. I want to pray. The chairman of a legal committee to record this on the committee and review it. Of course, we have to work against men with unemployment, but we also have to work against women's unemployment. When I went over it with the highest. As shown in the budget bill itself, the prime minister at an unsubstantiated question period today, and I pointed out. 120, here's the fact that this was a misjudgment between men and women, then she thought it was really funny, funny, shouldn't be supported. But, Mr. President, I would like to read exactly what it says on the budget bill. I would like to make it clear that, fortunately, when we took care of the government's laws, we made it a law to assess financial products after the influence on the sexes, because there are a lot of numbers in this bill that won't tell us much about it. Therefore, it is important to take the numbers and determine whether there is an increase in gender rights, replace them, or counteract inequities. It says on page 18. 120 in the bill on which this is being discussed, with the permission of a president: In view of increased unemployment, new employment opportunities are of great importance when assessing the impact of the bill on equality, while the list of unemployment in the country throughout August 2020 was slightly higher among women than men, whether included or not. The results of the analysis are that a large proportion of the services resulting from increased expenditures will be processed by men, with the greatest attention to the investment initiative of less than 30% of new and rising expenses. Serving as a public servant, where women are in the greater part, is protected by failing to take heavy precautionary measures, and is well kept, also in mind. The economy. This arrangement, however, does not create new jobs for women who are already unemployed. The majority of other measures taken are considered to contribute to the unchanged pre-existing gender disorder in most cases in favour of men. So it's got its eyes open as high as possible. The government is acting in this way, making new money to combat unemployment, and most of the time, they work against the unemployment of men. Of course, we know that men work mostly to build buildings, make roads, and maintain buildings. When the investment schedule is started, about 85% of man's traditional male activities. But it is also true that with the effort all work, traditional male activities are focused almost exclusively on work. They're promoting trade with industrialists, and that's just fine. However, women's classes could have been viewed and not just had the power, but it is necessary to do so when working against unemployment in the country. Of course, that is what really matters in this situation. I'm just saying, as the head of the parish said in a discussion about Prime Minister's policy, that's a job, a job, a job, a job, a job. We're supposed to create jobs and thus work out of this crisis. As long as we don't have a vaccine, the unsuspecting is complete. We know that. Still, we need to take the step, work against unemployment, focus especially on the affected areas, take good care of children and those who get sick, and do not act as if the concrete is going to save everything.
