ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u1	So to about 2nd and 7th, their distribution is not by the norm. After April 1, the case is held, and the deadline has not yet been delayed. Thirty-seven. Parliamentary conditions, i.e. So called a five-day rule. It has not been two days since the distribution, as is reserved in 1st. Thirty-seven. Congress. Since there is a agreement between members of the council that the matter should be arranged, the president considers the variation to be accepted without a vote if no one objects to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u2	Although the work programme is not now being carried out and as a result, the traditional terms of Congress, such as the length of a meeting, do not consider the president as having an agreement that a meeting meeting meeting can be held until evening if necessary, or until a discussion of the entire program is over. At the same time, the president wishes to assume that an hour's election is due today between the hour and the hour. 13 and 14 that can be used for a council meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u3	To answer, Prime Minister, Transport and Regional Ministers and Foreign and Development Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u4	President. I assume that the following will be a large debate over the government's economic activities and that it will continue for the next few days. So I want to take this opportunity to ask the highest. Ministers to another matter in terms of government response to current conditions, the pandemic. Britain's National Security Council and No doubt a number of other countries have found each day to discuss the response to this situation. I understand that the National Security Council did not meet to discuss the matter, but now it is decided to start a team of workers to map the manifestations and the scope of information problems with Covid-19 and then offer suggestions to counter the information issue. What's the highest. The Prime Minister's suggestion? A committee of nine or ten people to observe what is said about this epidemic? The Icelandic media is hardly to be censored. Is it really going to try to monitor the Internet and correct all the bullshit that might be found there? I find this very strange, Mr. President, and a little bit scary if the government is going to interfere in this way, as there are probably few people who are as well informed about Iceland as the epidemic. Alists have held a very praiseworthy daily press conference, and the public has been very informed about the matter. Why is it so important to set up up a committee of up to ten to follow along and make suggestions against the use of information? As a matter of fact, this is particularly a concern to me regarding what the government suggests on the implementation of donations to the media that I am going to ask the highest government. Minister for the second inquiry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u5	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing up this important issue that we have actually discussed several times in the Senate Hall. At least I don't know what to do with it. A senator has been in that discussion. I would like to begin by saying that the National Security Council actually met about the virus epidemic at his beginning and reviewed the possibility of the situation and its development in China, so it is not true that the National Security Council has not found out about the epidemic. A senator insisted. The existence of this group is not unique in an international setting where there is an information issue on which every community is involved, to form in the realm of national security, as we are doing by putting this group down. It is a very interesting subject to consider, and I agree and agree with it. A member of the Federal Intelligence Agency and the CDC in Iceland have been exemplary. It has been important that several of the questions that have been asked at that press conference have led to a steady channel for the public to spread questions through the media that have so been asked in these meetings. However, for example in neighboring countries, there are various reports of a lack of opinion about Covid-19. Is it normal for us to participate in that global conversation and mapline what it's like in Iceland? Yeah. Is it normal to be done on the scene of a National Security Council? That's what I think. Is this a new subject? No. National Security Council, in cooperation with various members of the community, including the political parties, stood for a special seminar on a number of issues earlier this year that held a workroom on information activity. It was in an effort to make it more important for the Icelandic government to map these issues in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u6	Mr. President. Don't you worry less about hearing an answer. Prime Minister. In fact, I did not claim that the National Security Council never spoke of these matters, but I pointed out that they did not have been found as if they had been somewhere else and that they were all right. The feds have been very careful about this. But when there is a meeting to be determined or at least In some way, the suggestion is to try to censor the news, apparently. V.E.G. A minister points to the appearance of news e.g. in other countries that have not been fully correct. Is the government now responsible for censoring news? Is it not true that people will be able to observe the information meetings of public defence and consider this itself? This is a concern, especially when the government suggests sharing capitals with the media, the minister of education is being given extraordinary authority in a Regulation to give it financial support. I find it quite strange, Mr. President, that it is expected that a minister of the media will personally control the budget of the media. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u7	Mr. President. Hv. A senator concludes that there is an information issue in the area of the National Security Council and that we map their position in Iceland equivalent because we are going to censor the discussion, editor of the media. [[Up front.]] Of course not. If we look to what other nations have been doing near us, to form northern nations, we will have been provided with a progressive education on information management. I'm sure we will. A senator does not disagree about changing the environment, the technical environment of community media, has made communication in a very different way. Is that why I'm saying that it wasn't wrong before? No, of course not. Of course, they were wrong, but in today's centuries they do not exist, and no doubt education is needed if we appreciate that the scope of this matter is great in Iceland, but it has not been charted. It's a responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u8	Mr. President. I think it's important to talk to the top. Minister on community business. Our community governments care for much of our most precious business and our close - ups, nurserys, elementary schools, aging services, the affairs of disabled people, and other vulnerable groups. Farmers and their workers have shown admirable adaptability to cope with difficult viral epidemics, but this has also cost the rural communities a great deal. At the same time, there is a requirement for them to yield to limited income organisations and to attack large numbers of projects. Farmers, however, cannot earn their own income by means of taxes. They have less potential for debt than the state, and they cannot print money as a government fund can and are now doing. Of course, I welcome positive action that the government intends to take, but it is clear that the government must go much harder on earth to support the communities. Of course, if we were to do so, we would do well. A minister could stand here in a year and discuss how successful he has been in saving the businesses of the country. Let's just figure it out together. On the other hand, if we had not been able to defend our most precious community service, our nursery, our elementary school, our aging services, the subjects of the disabled, and others, we would have lost count of people's precious quality of life, and our children's future. I know the Minister agrees with me. I reiterate that I am not minimizing the measures that have already been published, but I would like to know what further actions the government intends to take in the interests of its members. Has there been a map of how direct support exists in the North countries?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u9	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for taking up this matter, which I think is very interesting to discuss here at the councilroom. We agree, like what? A senator mentioned, about the importance of the unit management phase in the local service, and I agree with it. A member of the council that the communities and their employees have been advising how to adapt to the changing circumstances and that everyone is mapping the situation. She's different. We've had a special project for the Southnes in action. In fact, it was sparked from a very different situation, due to growth, growth, and development at that time. We've seen other areas in the country because of our tourism maybe growing as fast, but not with as much population in some parts of the Middle East as in the north. Now it's just a whole other thing. Our work with Southnes was fine, so we can direct specific measures to them. We've been assigned to identify the status of other rural partners, and we're going to set up a team to take the position on different rural positions. It is not that humans can add one number and then distribute it to all their societies. Some rural societies have produced significant profits every year, leftovers, and may have opportunities to cope successfully. At least the unit level has 30% of the county. You're right next door. A senator that is not equal to the government's ability to place on new taxes, however, by the self - determination rights of the local community, there is considerable scope. We've cleared the budget for the fail-safes package No. 1st During last night's presentation, there were plenty to support just taking the weight of our rural communities through sensitive groups. I guess that's 1.5 billion we're bringing in there right now, I think it's the right kind of food. But we're gonna need to analyze this better, and we're starting such a job, and just for the last time this morning, I had a nice conversation with the Chairman and the European Commission on that subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u10	Mr. President. I realize that the rural communities are different, but we still have an important task at the end of this, to rethink a income exchange between the state and our community because the majority of the business is in irons and e.g. 46.5 billion are missing from the foundation for operating aging services run by many rural groups. I don't want to say anything with the highest. Ministers when he says that they are taking over the local or rural authorities a great deal of their duties with these 1.5 billion. Much of it is good, but part of that money goes, for example. in the student summer job, if I get it right. As far as the State is concerned, it is not necessarily the responsibility of a community to care for this, but it is urgent. Norway, besides other measures, has the right to direct $90 billion directly to your community. That's about it. $6 billion. When can we expect such direct donations?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u11	A respectable president. As I came in earlier, the situation is different, and there are societies that have been making up to perhaps a billion profits in recent years. Shall we start sharing the same number? This has developed from one international organization that has been discussed in the media. This would mean that rural society, perhaps with a collection of 5, 6, 7 billion in profits over the past ten years, does not rely on going through possible billions of losses within the next year while earning income is complete for other rural communities. That's why we're identifying the problem. I wasn't referring to 1.5 billion on a workforce or such. I was talking about 600 million who went to sports and leisure activities of children, 450 million to the more vulnerable groups we've been discussing with our relationship, and the Department of Social Affairs has been in charge of local government. We've been watching now for five weeks any group that needs serious assistance. It's 1.5 billion that we're changing into the real estate fund in order to be able to put on better terms for disabled persons, both in the community and in order to take on greater and better access to everyone. [[The president calls.]] There are these things that we're identifying with our rural society, and we're going to continue to do so, and I agree with that. Senator, that's what we need to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u12	Mr. President. The government's campaign package, which was announced yesterday, contains information on special support for rural areas. It shows that, in view of the position we are in, the pack of action does not help everyone as much as it takes. More important, the transparency and support needed to be given when certain arrangements are made. In view of specific measures to support rural society, it seems that the largest community seems to carry a sharp object from table to table, at least ... inthispass. That's what I want to ask the highest. Minister in more detail. The country's investment fund gets some injections through an equation fund to weigh at least partly against the loss of income. As we know, Reykjavík isn't a local society that's getting a lot of money from the fund. Furthermore, Reykjavík does not have the 3rd team supporting sensitive areas, and most activities in the rural phase are actually directed toward the country. So I ask the highest. Minister: How should the interests of Reykjavík be guaranteed? The greatest unemployment will be in the capital area, in Reykjavík, according to an appeal number, and in a relatively large way, although Southnes may be left out there. Then there are instruments for determining whether Southnes are included in the capital area, but there is also a special support for them. We can discuss whether he is sufficient or not, but they will receive at least coma. There is also a very diverse group of people in Reykjavík who will need social resources, so this is a major blow. It is quite clear that Reykjavík is supposed to drive along with all the resistance and to carry out her social duties, and he has done well, providing billions of dollars at the same time as the city's income contracts by tens of billions, and I wonder where the inhabitants of Reykjavík are in this package. I know that the fund and rural society are to be handled on the scene of the head of a state and rural society where these measures are to be discussed, and I'm asking the top. Minister: Is it not safe to consider the subject of Reykjavík there? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u13	A respectable president. Of course, it is important that all of our communities are part of what we are dealing with, and it is obvious that the largest community is part of it. There, most people live, and as a result, when we are talking about vulnerable groups, children of foreign origin, and children of parents with less income, they live in the city of Reykjavík, and as a result, most of the funds are available to them. I didn't quite understand why. That's the case with a senator. If they were to refer to the real estate fund on access to everyone, there is money available to the local community to build up housing for disabled people and to have nothing to do with the other equations. All this resources and all of us are doing the job is obviously the biggest job for the County Society of Reykjavík. In addition, it is the largest rural society, and hence, it is at most to equalize the burden between different parts. This was a report from Reykjavíkurburg the other day. In fact, I didn't understand the report, that it cost the city 71⁄28 billion, I have to admit it, so if you had taken it directly, it would mean that it was free of the burdens now, but I'm not going to be talking so lightly here. All the things that we're doing are socializing with all our societies. I'm most worried about the rural communities where unemployment is more than 40%, they're so low they don't have the ability to deal with it because of the income foundation. The firms in these rural communities seek to cut off all expenses because they simply will not support any business. There is no larger team to cope with. Therefore, we are making a precise analysis of this by a Based agency, and we will set up a special group to determine the future of action in such a state, and the consequences of it can mean that the future will mean that we need to think about how a income exchange between the state and rural society will be handled and will be better done in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u14	Mr. President. I'm going to take a poet's license here, and I'm going to interpret an answer at the highest level. Minister to protect the interests of Reykjavík in this rural activities. I would like to only mention the travel report, because I agree with a minister that it is inappropriate to have such words here, but it may be possible to compare it with the high costs of a road transport minister; then road projects increase their income in rural areas because there are so many people involved, e.g. tourists. I would feel that this was comparable to the city report without my having read it down into the basement. I'd like to reflect on it again, considering that it is a temporary procedure that is included and hopefully they only need to be exactly that, temporarily, which is the highest. The Minister of Government and the government wondered about taking temporary action with a larger portion of the income tax stock that they share with a government fund in the outback. I know it's the highest. A minister only internalized it earlier, but there must be something for consideration, since this means that the rural communities each have a self - determination to take action. [[The president calls.]] We have often talked about how certain measures and decisions work best in each rural society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u15	A respectable president. All I want to make clear is that the rurals are the second administrative level in the country and the same state of state, a service of more than 30% of the total. It is perfectly normal for us to expect the rural communities to swallow that part. That's why we've cleared up the financial rules and things like that. But all of us realize that in order to ensure the vital and delicate services that their communities have, we need to review whether they will be able to do so as one thing. That's why we have even. A balance fund. If we do something with that in the days when we say that larger communities have the potential to drive themselves in a sustainable manner, it is obvious that the largest rural societies are better equipped to do so than the smaller communities. [[Up front.]] That's what we're talking about. Therefore, if there is a shock where there will be an even greater difference between individual smaller rural partners and others whose income base is based on something other than tourism, we need to analyze it before we take action. [[The president calls.]] As I've said before, we're investigating this case with a Based agency and going to set up a special group with the European Union to take the position and look forward to the future with the intention of implementing measures that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u16	A respectable president. I come back and forth again, and I sound like a broken 33-fangled gramophon album that acts in the same way, but I will continue to do so until I find answers to certain questions. I'm glad that in the new government package there's an increase to the artist trade, but I'd like to point out that I'm especially glad to say that it's somehow been calculated to over 400,000. If what artists need to live without impairment, no other income will be affected. It's great, but at the same time, we're paying up to 40% less income to micro- and older citizens $150,000. less. It's all reduced, and it's cut in a chain-way manner. I'm asking, what kind of genius did this figure out? Is this a new kind of equality? No, it can't be. It's unfair, and I'm asking, "Why on earth do we keep this system so tight?" We need to realize that the latest figures show that micro-terrestrial growth and 2019 is zero. We also need to realize that the deposit market for older citizens' income, 25,000 bucks, has not changed since 2017, and the cost of disability has become more than twice as much as it should be. Nothing changes, nothing changes. There is nothing in this operation pack for older citizens. When's that package coming in? Why can't we have equality on earth? V.E.G. The prime minister has said that it is time for them not to wait any longer. How long, though, will they wait for, just for a few months, perhaps the same dollar number as that of an artist?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi, the son of Kristinsson, who claims to be like a broken record, is not wrong, but it is not wrong to bring up the issues closest to one's heart. So I don't agree with what. That's what a senator does. First, though, I would like to say in terms of artistic pay that they submit to laws other than making the pay of social security, whether in the case of disability or of an older citizen, or in the case of unemployment in which the artistry is applied for certain projects. Some receive three months; others receive six months; those who receive most of them three years. That's the longest possible time, and that doesn't give too many to care for. The artist's salary is based on evaluation of the job you are applying for and not all of them will be paid. It's hard to compare this with what I'm saying. A senator that the increase in this reward is good because we know that both art is important in itself, but the economic effects of the creative branches are also irrefutable. However, in terms of disability and older citizens, I'd like to say that it's not a year since the General Assembly gave up a bill to reduce disability. It is important to remember that this is not an unchangeable situation. These were the first steps to reduce the degree of impairment, and at that step around 2.5 billion, so that it was an important step to meet the requirement of disability that these failings be reduced. What about the elderly? asks why. Senator. Inside the council is the bill for the social and child-friendly support of the elderly who were greatly involved with an older citizen's organisation in identifying which groups of older citizens were the worst and how they could be met. Some of the results are revealed in that bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u18	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The answer is made by the prime minister. That's a fact, though, if we take an artist's pay out of parentheses and just make unemployment money that's about 300,000 bucks. but the reduced pay of the seniors and the desperate 257,000, which is less. There's a big difference. I'm asking, "Why can't you pay the bills and the older cities, e.g. 50,000 bucks. for a month temporarily, three months, four months or the worst time? They should have only 20,000 bucks. June 1 and it's too late. I know a lot of people who need it now. People who don't have the guts to leave home and have to order food, the price of groceries has risen out of control. It's much more expensive to order food online for those who can't go to Bonus because they get the cheapest food, they have to pay more for it. People need this now, not June 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u19	Mr. President. I thank the senator again. He asks: "What can you do? I'd like to point out the bill I finished my case here on the social support of senior citizens. Let us see that in 2016 in the past government, major changes were made in the progress of older citizens. This increased expenses for this class of paintings because of the changes made back then. They have been in the process since then, but it was the conclusion that the most important thing is to identify those who did not have the right to the system that was then established and to meet them in that bill. Let us also look at the status of older citizens from a database, such as the history of income. You can't talk about seniors and disability at the same time where senior citizens usually stand, of course not everyone, much better than disability pension workers. Do we need to make changes in the energy system? Yeah, that's where we're at. A senator agrees. In fact, it was the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs, with a prime report on the program of this council, which, of course, is now very vague in view of the social situation. [[The president calls.]] But these changes need to be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u20	Mr. President. I think everyone understands the importance of having a very rich and powerful international cooperation in the present state. Of course, some situations make it difficult to do so, but the more reason to try. So it has been a bit boring not to see much more leadership on the part of international Iceland in view of how well we handle our situation. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of State to a few things in the hope that he can give me a slightly better picture of the situation, and hopefully I'm impressed with him in that we're really doing things. The first thing to consider is that international trading agreements, free trade agreements, very often require recovery of technical standards, e.g. About the hygiene of groceries. Now we're in the condition that everyone under the sun is using different disinfectants and dealing with the problem individually. At the same time, we watch international tourism collapse. We watch global international trade collapse, estimated to be 35%, by the United Nations. Why not try to make some sort of agreement with countries that have similar disease prevention measures to that of trying to open up, perhaps even contribute to further transport and similar opportunities? You might also ask, because the ability of the Icelanders to take a sample is so great, if it is simply not possible to try everyone who comes to the country. We have considerable ability to do so. And the third point: What has the minister of foreign affairs taken the lead recently? I'd love to get a complete overview.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I don't trust myself to bring a complete overview over it in the next two minutes what I've been doing lately, but I really want to do everything I can to inform them. A senator, a council, and a nation about this, of course, is only a matter of course. But that will not be done in these two minutes. But just in general, I don't know exactly what to do. A senator is about to assume that Iceland is not taking the lead in these matters. Of course, Iceland has taken the lead with the example of Iceland when it comes to fighting the virus. But at the same time, because of what. A senator talks about the importance of it, and it's important, no matter what we get into a great rescue package and what actions we take in, not just the economy, but all over the world, will not take over until borders open again. It's as simple as that. How will this be done? That's one of the things we've been watching, and we've talked about at all the meetings I've been participating in, and they're a lot of them. Of course, they are more than before, since, fortunately, everyone is ready to use telecommunications, and I am especially happy about that. We've been up to some ideas, much like a wuss. A senator mentioned, how best, and how to take the first steps when it comes to opening. How can we take first steps without threatening the results we have already made? That's really the big question. Hv. A senator referred to two - sided communication. That's one of those things I've been looking for. When it comes to our next neighbors, the Faeroeties, and the Greenlanders, they have also been successful. However, other countries of our alliances have had different success. We must always keep our eyes on the ball as far as it goes, and that's what we're really doing, how we can get out of this and open it again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u22	Mr. President. I don't know exactly where to begin. I was expecting some kind of answer, I expected that after all this time, it would be the highest. The minister of foreign affairs, at least, has something to be proud of. That's right, we've been taking the lead in the field of health, but if I was going to talk about it, I would've wanted to talk to the highest level. Secretary of health. The situation is that in recent months almost nothing has happened in international affairs. It's certainly been difficult, and I understand that. It's the last great news I heard from the highest. The minister of foreign affairs was about to converse with the leaders of the United States, which is certainly an extremely difficult country at this time. But now there's a lot of open stuff. There is a measure of transport between European countries. It would be possible to promote further action. It would be possible to create a greater basis for international intervention. [[The president calls.]] But where has the secretary of state been?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u23	It's time to go to the top. Minister of state to inform us of this in his second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u24	A respectable president. I don't know if I should take this inquiry seriously, so I'm just saying exactly as it is. Right away. A senator says that international work has not been in progress, to what does he point? That's what I'm talking about. A senator who has not noticed that we have, for example, one of the only Icelanders. Are you working with other peoples to get to the country of Iceland? That's what I'm talking about. A senator who didn't know about it? [[Up front.]] That's not what he's talking about. It's an international team, isn't it? [[Up front.]] Isn't that an international teamwork, a respectable president?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u25	Not a conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u26	It's a clean, clean international teamwork, and it's an example of it. There's no secret that we've been in first place helping Icelanders come home, and it's not a small job that's gone into it. In case of a moment. A senator thinks that the problem when it comes to opening borders is Iceland's failure, that's why. A senator who was very mistaken. But then I don't know which one. The senator was joking about his inquiries or not. The short answer to what we have been doing is that we have truly been active in a worldwide field. [[The president calls.]] There, the northern community has been especially useful to Iceland and to other northern countries, but other cooperation too. Surely, all we have done is give them a message and lay the basis for trying to open the land when the opportunity arises. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u27	President. Here's one thing on the program, I hope there's not going to be the same mode as it was here a few days ago when we saw a case on the program that really doesn't have anything to do with this case of Covid's age, but we've got another one of those cases, which is a case that was rejected in the council a few months ago, that's supposed to combine two funds and make one. It's put in a Covid mode of passage to try to get it through the council in a little debate, but it's just not like that. This and the funds to be added - I'm going to thank the government for the intention of adding a few hundred million when it comes to innovation and other agriculture. There are several processes for this money today, e.g. In the treasures that exist, the AVS, and the Manufacturer's Fund of the agricultural. There's another one we have. It's called the Marine Fratelli. We have other people who can take this money and get it out. This need not be taken through the council now that has actually been rejected at the council. [[The president calls.]] I think it's not quite okay, Mr. President, and not considering what's been discussed with the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u28	The president would like to inform us that today's program is entirely in accordance with the agreed Presidency Committees of March 19 and April 14, where it was considered that urgent measures and responses to PVR would be put first. In a memo following this bill, which the president briefly looked at yesterday as if in other cases to understand for himself what was going on, the funds to go through were spoken of as taking on a special food campaign and should go through this fund. The president, in turn, will not meddle in political debates over such matters and recommend that the members discuss it according to incident and settle in his investigation of the matter. The president would also like to inform us that the seventh part of the program, which some may ask, is why the program, which is a political proposal, is also a matter of Congress, intended to address the situation directly due to a pandemic of Korean virus. In contrast with what might seem to be a bad report the president of the past few days, the president of the United States is a man of his word, and he is doing what was informed on these matters that the Council case associated with the Covid epidemic would be given the same priority as the title of directors. That is why the seventh part of the program is on the program. On the part of the president, he believes that he set up a program that is completely in line with the approval of the presiding committees from March 19 and April 14.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u29	Mr. President. I just want to take advantage of this opportunity and say under these circumstances that I believe that the arrangement is what it is. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson makes it possible to spend half a billion on domestic food production through a new Food Fund, with a good deal of money being replaced by water. [[Up front.]] We've got a bill for a new fund here. The idea is not that this will go through the old fund because there are new goals to be set, to form in terms of increasing integration. We're not supposed to watch food production in Iceland as separate languages, agriculture and fishing grounds, but we're supposed to look at a whole new creation. I would have thought we would. A senator would agree that it would be necessary to approach these matters in just a new way and that it is important to do so in a difficult way. This is definitely part of the economic response due to the viral epidemic, and it is important that this budget is carefully prepared.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u30	A respectable president. I didn't mean to extend this discussion, but I didn't mean to. The prime minister gave every reason to do so. There's squares for this money. That is why there is no need for a new bill to get them out. That's very obvious, topv. President. Let's discuss it as the highest. The prime minister is really not important, I would like to say, in what we are discussing here. I was just pointing out that here is a matter of Congress that was rejected by the council a few months ago about the change in two funds in the shelter that this is a Covid-related case. It's not like that. In fact, if you read the bill, they will see in the report that first and last of all these funds are being combined, but they can be connected to this Covid epidemic. I'm not against the fact that there's money in innovation or that it's to strengthen it, but there's already good funds, good ways, and good things to do that money. That doesn't need this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u31	The president expects a material discussion on the theme of the 6th meeting to be conducted in the discussions about it when it comes to it. The president does not comment that the President's meeting board is prepared for the program or made comments on the program, but he does not want a topic on the program to be conducted elsewhere than when it is considered. There is a long tradition that presidents are trying to maintain discipline in this regard so that the discussion will not go out through the valley and through the hill and be on the right part of the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u32	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to raise the budget for the year 2020. 1253. The bill presents the General Parliament with proposals for changes in the budgets of various causes and lawsuits because of the unprecedented conditions in the economy we now live in because of the Covid-19 pandemic. In response to the economic impact of the pandemic, the government provided the first intervention package in March. The main focus was to deal with the sudden breakdown of much of the economic system by ensuring as much as possible the recruitment relationship between employees and businesses as well as the availability of companies for the funds. This included: Pays unemployment along with reduced employment rate, payment for the pay of persons who are infected, postponing taxes, and granting the State's responsibilities on some of the financial loans. There have been some special investment campaigns and market sources, as well as special child benefits, with all children. In addition to this, the General Assembly agreed to treat the first bill for financial support in the year 2020 a greater part of the legal committee, which included supporting the lost country's homes. It was first of all for monotherapy for microenergy and rehabilitation-employers who are tax and deficient, also to strengthen resources for homeless people with multiple problems, as well as funding for measures that are against anxiety and loneliness. By the time the government's initial actions were presented, hopes that the economic recession would be short, and the economy could get relatively rapid out of its challenges, but now it is more likely to become deeper and more chronic, especially because of the international limit of travel with immense influence on tourism. The economy is faced with a double shock, which is evident in the rapid growth of domestic demand, which may include a rapid increase in demand. Based on government action aimed at minimising the spread of the pandemic and on the other hand, in a serious drop in tourism and all related factors that can have a measure of impact beyond the pre-traumed travel services. As a result, it is estimated that unemployment can become more and more chronic than previously anticipated. This may be the case, e.g. points out that in a recent projection of the World Bank Fund on world economic prospects, about 3% of the world's contractions are expected this year, which was significantly more recession than in the financial crisis a decade ago. The projection is then expected to reduce economic growth in more developed countries, with an estimated more than 6% reduction in contractures in general. On the other hand, the World Bank allows for a strong reversal of almost 6% of economic growth during 2021 globally and 4.5% of the interest in developed countries, although more uncertain, to develop. In this country, the projections account for 7% of the year's contractions and about 6% of the interest rate at the next one. So the bill and the others submitted at the same time include further responses to the consequences of the epidemic. The objective of the bill is to further increase support for an enterprise as well as expand the previous measures by reaching groups that were not covered by previous actions. This pack contains some social resources that extend to the sick state of homes, including due to increased unemployment. Then the procedure is intended to protect society from health and other influences discussed at the council. These are terms of government arrangements that depend on taxes, financial support for management, and support for innovation companies as well as special business support for the media and broad social resources. The measures are focused on the emergency problem and are, along with the financial management of credit institutions, in order to improve the ability of companies and households to stay absent until the virus has been stopped. Clearly, the situation and outlook change rapidly at this time, so it is necessary that the government's response at any point take into account the change as they move forward into the year. It is clear, then, that governments will later offer further measures that will focus on dealing with the consequences yet to follow those that are already taking place. During the following weeks, the situation will become even more clear than the development of circumstances. Depending on the effectiveness of national and commercial measures, the epidemic and thus reducing economic activity and, especially, travel. As in the budget adopted at the end of March, this bill is primarily being proposed to provide additional funds for the government's decision on the state of state, and temporary measures at this stage. It should be noted that the contribution of the Kingdom Fund will be significantly worse in the current year and that the size of the angle of payment base could be considerably higher than that of the banking system fall in the fall of the fall in the fall of 2008. This will inevitably have a significant effect on the progress of debt, but government funds are well - equipped to cope with such a shock. The measures taken up to now have the primary objective of minimising the long - term effects of present circumstances in the home and economy. In addition to the specific measures taken for the Korean virus epidemic, it may be considered that despite the sudden failure to earn money to support the government's fund, the main counterimbursement of the government may be maintained as far as possible in public service and pensions and reforms. Thus, there is a marked relax in the maintenance of the budget that allows automatic balances to function fully. However, it is equally clear that there are limits to how long and to the extent of the government's ability to withstand such challenges without letting them down and that this distances from their strength to live up to their long - term role. Thus, the solution to the emergency problem should not lose sight of the fact that in the coming years, there will be a need to adapt the balance of income and payment and to improve the debt status until it is moderate again. A respectable president. This bill offers proposals for new projects and additional sources of spending and were unpredictable or urgent. The bill asks that government funds in 2020 be increased by 13.2 billion dollars. However, this represents an increase of about 1.3% in previously approved documents. Have that level of resources raised by about 39 billion dollars. in November 2000, the budget was adopted. Total but current budgets for 2020 about 1,030 billion dollars. The scope of the arrangement is explained by a small but significant amount of spending. That's 4. The bill also proposed changes to the regulations set out in Article 6. The budget for 2020 Now, I'm going to step on the main subject of the bill. First of all, social activity allows for an increase of 8.4 billion dollars. The budget is intended on the one hand to the groups of society that are insistent to support because of the economic situation and, on the other, to the staff of health care professionals who have been under a great deal of stress because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The most important social action for students who have no or limited right to unemployment benefits and study tools for jobseekers during the summer and the next winter, spending up to 5 billion dollars. This is why. It is hoped that governments and rural groups can, together, create some 3,000 summer jobs for students with a special effort. There is also a plan to offer a study offer for college and high school students during summers and special study tools for jobseekers over the next 12 months to meet a growing number of jobseekers. The objective of these measures is to meet the jobseeker's educational and effectiveness requirements to maintain, improve or modify the workforce's skills when the job situation improves. It is then assumed that 1 billion will be devoted to a special bonus in the form of a single payment for health care professionals living in the front. At that time, less than 1 billion measures will be taken to improve social resources. Actions include tickets to help deal with social isolation of the elderly and disability and support those who care for chronically ill children who are now in poor service because of the epidemic's impact. There will also be special emphasis on acts against domestic violence and child abuse, with increased support for those who tolerate and their families, as well as on further contributions to Children's House. There is a budget to meet the challenges of social services and child protection in the most remote regions of the country. It is also planned to provide 540 billion. K. to help develop and improve the spiritual health of the inhabitants of the land. The national health care services will be greatly promoted, with special emphasis on mental and mental health. This includes increasing the number of specialized health care professionals, such as mental - health professionals, psychologists, and social workers. At that time, the telecommunication of health care will be further increased as well as coordination and harmonization of national health care services. Finally, local control measures will be taken, but they will contribute to the development and improvement of resources for less than 1 billion. There, weighing more than 600 million. K. a contribution to rural society in order to enable them to provide low income households so that all children, regardless of their economic situation, can pursue sports and other leisure activities during the summer and through the year. At the same time, 250 million are expected. K. ... actionon the Southnes. Clearly, the situation in that part of the country requires special attention, since its inhabitants have particularly experienced the consequences of the development of the situation. The above social measures were determined by the influence on gender equality by the method of litigation. According to the evaluation, the measures either contribute to an increase in equality or to the maintenance of the remainder of the situation, but this depends largely on the implementation of the procedure where appropriate. Second, raise the budget by 2.5 billion dollars. which will be used to provide financial support to smaller management providers. These are people who have had to shut down business or who have dropped out of business under public recommendations for disease prevention and as a result of loss of income. In most cases, companies have limited resources to pay for fixed costs when they have been made to simply shut down the work. Locking concentrations are such that partial improvement of at least the loss of income that companies have and contributes to maintaining the level of employment and economic activity. I have to say, I think this is a fair matter. Third, the bill offers a suggestion to increase the budget of 2.3 billion to promote innovation and development in the community. The procedure aims to provide funds for a number of funds, which will then divide the budget according to distribution regulations and individual objectives. The largest part of the budget will go to the Kria's wand and innovation fund. There will be funding for promoting innovation and development in domestic food production and for advertising campaigns to protect jobs and increase value production in Iceland. It will also be funded in artistry's payroll and, more importantly, for the New World Fund of students where training will be emphasized in the founding and innovations. The goal is to resist unemployment and to promote innovation among young people. Then I'm going to step on a new bill for financial support. In the 3rd. The bill is submitted to the change in authority regulations in Article 6. The budget for 2020 It is suggested that the article be added to one new feature, 7.33, because of the additional responsible state funds on individual loans and on legal bills that are engaged in employment or independent activity. There a minister is authorized to give loan agencies full responsibility for new loans to support managers who have experienced temporary setbacks for the pandemic and meet specific requirements. Based on the fact that the loans will be paid by the end of 2020 and will be useful to smaller sources of temporary harvest contractions. This subject is referred to a second bill on the program today. It is also suggested in this bill that it is authorised to negotiate with Iceland's Federal Bank to care for the responsibilities of government funds on loans to operators in a comparable way that holds a warrant of 7.32 due to government funds on additional business loans. V.E.G. President. Now, I have studied the key features of this bill for financial support by 2020 and suggest that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. The Parliament's budget, and it's going to take care of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u33	Madam President. I noticed that there is no mention of home in the 36 - page box of the government. It's all about the priorities of the government. Where are the direct actions for the people of the country? Thinks a minister acceptable to allow up to one fourth of Iceland's population to travel at 290,000 a.m. Residual benefits? The Minister himself trusts to live at 290,000 bucks. a month? I'd also like to ask the minister if the 350 million to go to the media are the additions to 400 million already earmarked media. What happens to them 400 million if the majority of them don't deliver the media bill? This is important. Third, where are the measures for the small companies, especially for the service that is bleeding out? Yes, they get to borrow. Yippee! We've got a loan to pay back. Where are the direct support measures for the small companies? [[The president calls.]] It's clear they're coming at least themselves they are not seen in this package.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u34	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator needs to realize that in the homes, people live and go home to work in companies and institutions and in many areas of the community. When we are making sure that our companies can survive and pay, we are indirectly supporting our homes, household income, home business, and household support and families. This will not be torn apart. It's totally ridiculous to tear these two apart. I'm asking you when you introduce yourself here to a process of fostering, e.g. To mental health: but why. A senator saying it's because of the corporations in the country? Who is being spoken of in the field of action as being presented here? Of course, our goal is to avoid all the necessary steps that we have in a very difficult situation where people go to unemployment records. Therefore, we are now paying the part - help system much of the company's pay expenses, and it's just a resource that small tourism companies are making big use of. You can only ask these people who are in trouble and who are in travel services if the State is not paying a substantial amount of money through the part-change process. [[The president calls.]] The answer will be: Yes. Then there will be other options.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u35	Madam President. The contribution process is a positive route, but it was in the first package. We're talking about this package, and there's very little in this package that helps, for example. to create new jobs. Why not increase the number of government jobs? It would be both necessary and practical in this situation. It is remarkable that the only new jobs in this package are summer jobs. I'm not going to belittle them, but I can certainly say from this chair that people expected more than we can find here. I'd like to call for an answer about the media. V.E.G. Ministers can be sure to answer that 350 million. K. are in addition to 400 million. K. which are already under financial control. What happens if the majority of the committee's work is not overcoming this issue? We're talking about 750 million. K. to the media, or is the thought of lowering the 400 million to 350 million? This is very important. All the media in the country are dealing with an extremely difficult situation, and we need clear answers from this chair about the government's thinking to the media in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u36	A respectable president. It's one of the worst ideas I heard, that now there's a reason to start making big public jobs. I don't think that's the job. We need to understand what the problem is. The problem is the job in the private sector that is disappearing. It's the root of the problem, as I did earlier. If we do not overcome that situation, we will not be able to afford our share, as we have set the budget in recent years. We will simply not have income for the state funds to cover the social security, run the education system, run health services, social services, depend on the transport system, etc. That is the danger we face, so our actions must be directed to stimulate new social employment. I think the object of research, development and innovation is very likely to be successful in this. Regarding the media, the answer is very simple. That's a warrant for today. It's up to the council to issue the bill or not. We've got an extra deposit here. If it is accepted, it will be used for that purpose. [[The president calls.]] The Parliament must then decide what to do with the bill and the rest of the budget outside this issue.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u37	Madam President. The media supports this government's package of action and has supported all of the government's proposals to minimize the damage we are facing. The government's economic actions must take into account that the decline will be more than the most pessimistic projections are expected. It must be kept in mind under what circumstances we are preparing for it. The government has not, in my opinion, and in the Middle East. And it seems to be afraid to face the fact that these downloads are deeper than the most pessimistic men anticipated. The government has spoken of cooperation and cooperation and has called upon proposals from government opposition. I have to say, we have been very disappointed that these suggestions have not been listened to. We have a suggestion to raise the press for innovation, we have a suggestion for stress payment, we have a suggestion for Southnesia. All these suggestions were dropped three weeks ago, the highest. Secretary of finance. Why were these suggestions being made? Why were you offering suggestions that you then bring here now? [[The president calls.]] At that time, three weeks have passed, a precious time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u38	Thank you. For a senator, the proposals for the council and the support that the government has given to the council are fundamentally responsible for the action the council has made. The proposals of the government have changed during the council, and it is easy to trace them. Various options were improved. There were some suggestions from the government that did not get started. I am not going to speak for the whole administrative point when it comes to what reasoning that was done in each case. We simply have logical suggestions that have been well prepared, looking for all factors. We have pooled suggestions, e.g. for research, innovation and development. We are also involved in adding a number of alternatives that have not yet been discussed during the council. I'll give you an example of the continuation of tax pay, i.e. access to, in fact, employing taxable losses this year to prevent corporate income taxes due to 2019. [[The president calls.]] This is how this table tennis game works at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u39	Thank you very much. Minister. The point is, we offered practical suggestions. The Board of Shepherds suggested special care for health care professionals. She was taken lightly, but now she is to be approved. Of course we support her. If a person is to call for solidarity and cooperation in unprecedented and difficult times, he should fulfill those words, not turn out, and all the proposals of the government stand still and then offer the same suggestions for himself in the next storm. Perhaps the point is that it does not matter where the suggestions come from. Perhaps that's the point, chief. Minister? I'd like to be very brief at the end of the supporting loans, which may be the biggest act in this package, an important and positive step, but only to a small percentage of companies when we watch the size of the economy and the roll. Then I simply want to ask the highest. Minister if the support loans are involved in reaching more enterprises, i.e. Medium enterprises, in the next action pack. This is all from the government in some small amount that may not be wise enough, either.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u40	A respectable president. I don't think they're going to say that men in a previous pack of measures objected to paying stress checks for health care professionals. In the meantime, however, the implementation of the stress payment has been done. I certainly would never have taken advantage of the suggestion that this would be possible, perhaps a matter of leading the lead. It should not be that way. A senator shows that this is determined entirely by the direction in which suggestions come. Here's a question of the extra loans, this support loan. We can see this by considering a combination of most companies, which are at the same time paid, with some employees, are small companies in Iceland. Of some 18,000 companies in the business economy, we can see that we are reaching about 14,000. That's right, that's a relatively small number of companies who have a very high ratio of total resources. [[The president calls.]] If we look at the number of companies with few employees, we will be very effective in this operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u41	A respectable president. About 540 million go to mental - health programs, which have increased doctors, staff, etc. It is not inexpensive to consult a mental - health professional, and a large group cannot afford it, cannot afford to eat, cannot afford medicine, cannot afford to see a doctor, let alone a mental - health professional. It is suggested at the same time e.g. any person under 400,000. will receive free medical care, usually medical care and especially mental - health care? It tells itself that failure to seek emotional help can be expensive for society and for health.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u42	A respectable president. You're right. One senator says, neglecting this group can be very expensive for society. I don't think that there was ever been so much effort on the subject as in the time of this government, which was clearly made in the government covenant and in the budgets of the past few years. We've set out a special campaign to do better there, including. in cooperation with the health care providers, and we have also reduced the expense of patients. I believe that with the measures that have already been introduced and what follows in addition to previous operations from previous years, we are covering up the problem. A senator points out how to be created. It is not a danger that even low - income people simply have no access to the kind of mental - health service they once enjoyed. I think there's much more reason to worry about design in this sector than about government subsidies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u43	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance will answer, but you have to disagree completely with him. Unable to afford to seek medical care is a serious matter. It is even more serious and can become far more expensive to society. It is proved that if people cannot seek medical help, whether in the case of mental illness or otherwise, they will treat society as well as the health system and will be far more expensive. I just think the cheapest and best thing we could do right now would be to tell everyone who is unemployed, anyone in the pension, that they get free medical care. Let's do this. I'll make a bet with you, it'll pay itself many times. I have no doubt that the highest. The minister of finance agrees with me because it's proven. In Britain, for example. a survey of how a person may be affected by an injury and how not to seek medical attention. It turned out that doing nothing required far more than fixing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u44	A respectable president. We don't have a problem with this. Hv. A senator suggests that we eliminate all the costs of patients who are subject to a specific income target and that the cost of the event has been dropped very significantly and the availability of high health care facilities. Health care has been very high, and a very low price is paid for service there so that I would need a better example of a real cost to see that the problem is real. A senator points out. What now lies ahead for the council to take sides is a proposal from the government to bring about the crisis of mental health.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u45	A respectable president. To further increase corporate support, says financial and economic secretary. Businesses are human work and if we should learn something, e.g. From America, we should learn that it should be easy to start a business and that it should be cheap, really cost free, quitting business. The management board has the voters' commission, i.e. people, not enterprises, enterprises are not voters with voting rights, at least Not yet, and hopefully never. Therefore, governments should focus primarily on strengthening people, not through companies, but simply on strengthening people. That's where the companies come from. I'd like to draw attention to this reversal that I always feel is part of the discussion, forgetting the origin. Our agency's origin at Congress is with people, the origin of companies is with people. That's where we're supposed to watch.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u46	A respectable president. I think there's a short phrase here, that government action has to do with some legal entity that doesn't have anything to do with people. That theory doesn't hold opinions. That's exactly what we're doing to save our jobs. The part - time ministry is conditioned by the maintenance of recruitment relations with people. I don't quite understand what's going on. A senator applies when he says that we should look to the United States and look to how we could make business less difficult to stop. What's the problem? A senator to refer? Is he referring to the fact that we should relieve a company of our obligation to pay people for an appointment? It's the American way, no pay on notice, three months, five months after contracts and individual contracts. What's the problem? A senator to refer? What should we do in Iceland, which is done so well in the United States, allowing companies to stop working?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u47	A respectable president. I'm asking the questions here. The more obvious thing is that we want it to be when a business doesn't owe it to anyone, especially to those who work for them. Emphasis on people first would simply have a positive influence, such as. The personal consumption I know is very important to the Independence Party. Also, I would like to give more careful consideration to a systematicly important company that has been constantly present during the recent discussion. If they are systematically important, why are they not defined in advance, e.g. that they have a legal responsibility in this regard, so we already know the duties and responsibilities of such an enterprise, and why the public and the state funds should come to their rescue? Probably expect to be helpful to people. Much of this is dangerous. The minister says it's a good argument and a precept, but the opposite is obvious in the bill's report, e.g. it's a detecting of the budget just because of the social package. [[The president calls.]] It didn't take time to win it for the other actions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u48	A respectable president. We have a particularly important legal financial enterprise, and for the council it is a bill from a travel, industrial and innovation minister of increased obligations to accountants for such enterprises and information sources, a obligation to provide information which would otherwise be the main concern of registered companies. We've been making changes in this direction to minimize the risk that enterprises' problems that are systematically important are causing something to come back to society. I don't think we're dealing with it right now. I think we're dealing with a pandemic, which has to do with the economy, we're seeing one of the biggest recessions in the global economy for 100 years. It is not limited to extraordinary jobs. This package of action contains steps that are in good shape to our assessment of the position today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u49	Madam President. It's like the highest. For more than 100 years, the minister of finance was just saying that we were in the deepest crisis. The response of the government must take into account that fact. In all fairness and honestly, this package, so to speak, package number two, is by no means sufficient to meet the situation in Icelandic homes and businesses. Let's go over a few things. First of all, we are not talking about 60 billion dollars. injection as the government wants the headlines to be. This is not true, for of these 60 billion are 41 billion loans to be paid, as is to be done with all loans, and second, the payoff is payback. Thus, the injection is 20 billion. How much is 20 billion? They're all 2% of the state's budget, and if we specifically look at the budget bill we're dealing with here, there's about 13 billion, more than 1%. Can anyone say that these figures, whether looked at 20 billion or 13 billion, are enough for an increase in the current state budget? I'm a little tired that they always say, "There's more coming later." That was said after the last package, then it was a whole month, and we got this thin package. I know there's a lot of positive things in a package like this, but I'm trying to draw out what's better. That's my job in opposition. We can see from the way that very few people are happy about this package. I know we can't do everything for everybody, but let's do it at least. A little more than that. I think it's remarkable, though, at the very height. A minister would not feel it in opposition to me, that the government's 36 - page cornea package does not mention a single word in the home. Of course I know that some things are useful to people, I quite realize that, but people aren't business and business isn't people. It also takes action to cope with household income loss. There's an unemployment enemy number one, two and three. Unemployment is 290,000. Even up to one fourth of the Icelandic people are on their way to unemployment benefits. The minister did not answer my inquiry whether he trusted to live at 290,000 bucks. per month. I wouldn't trust myself to do that. Why aren't unemployment improvements in this package? In the United States, we present a matter of Congress later today, which will be discussed in the future, to raise unemployment improvements. Why is this not done? It's a suggestion that would meet the domestic income drop, right? That's what matters. Maybe home isn't inside the minister's radar, which is very corporate orential. Of course, you need to consider the economy, but I find it remarkable that there is no special emphasis here on meeting a loss of income or the loss of the household directly. I know that part-time improvement is here, it's good, but we need more. I also find it remarkable in these packages that new jobs are extremely low in order to cope with unemployment. True, summer jobs are involved, and I'm not going to belittle them, they are important, but there is no need for new jobs. That's why I said to the highest. Minister before: Why not public work? How bad is it? More nurses, medical staff, physical therapists, teachers, police officers, child - care professionals, psychologists, and scientists are needed. These are public employees who can be added to, the number of jobs, the service to the public, and the benefit of public service. Adding jobs in the private sector can be more complex, but we also have the public sector in our arms. Why do we not improve in this regard? I don't think it's a bad idea that you can't add to the public system because it's the booth and the bad. I'm gonna go over it a little bit. What do public employees do? It's an official who accepts us when we are born. It is an official who teaches our children. It is an official who cares for the needs of disabled relatives. It is an official who is on the front line for a pandemic, but it is also an official employee who studies Iceland's geology, monitors avalanche risks, lays the roads that we drive, exits a helicopter to save a sailor, pays benefits, and prevents us from being broken, whether it is a consumer or another person. Finally, it is an official who nurses us on our deathbed. Let us not speak down public service and public work. They are important. In such a shock, it really is said to be a very reasonable way to meet the challenges we face. The number of jobs is getting smaller, and we're taking care of the government. We can really spit on and increase the number of government employees. It's not happening in this package. Madam President. Let's take a look at these little companies. I'm worried they'll be forgotten, especially in tourism. The subsidies that are of little value are primarily loans, up to 6 million. It's too small. A borrowed company needs to pay it back, as a means to understand. It is important to think more about how we meet these small companies, especially in the bleeding tourism industry. They're just gone. How can we help our small tourism companies? These are not necessarily companies who had to stop work because of the government's proposals, these are companies who had to stop due to a loss of income. Consider the companies who were forced to stop their operation because of the recommendation of the competent authority. They get more than 2 million. In some cases it is not even enough for renting the last two months, much less to deal with the loss of income that these companies, hair shops, dental clinics, regardless of which companies are, had to endure because of government recommendations. Let us consider only the social package in this budget. How big is it? He's 8.5 billion. That's all. Of course, I welcome every cent the government puts in social affairs, whether mentally or physically, family violence action, or anything else. But it's gone way too far. I've said it before to the Minister that he has us in this room as his allies to improve our spirit. Adding 1 percentage level to the government spending isn't adding very well, Madam President. Ministers in the government will not face opposition in this part of the hall if they want to improve their spirit. A financial minister himself has said that he wants to do more than less than he really does. The social package is 8.5 billion. Let's put this number in a little context. This is less than a drop in fishing fees has occurred in this government's terms. Can you imagine? This is not a handsome package to meet the social problem caused by this shock. Let's take a look at our investments, there's nothing going on in the investment package on a road trip to the state. The last pack of investment had become small before the ink on that package was dried. Not just in the position of government, we mentioned it. I expected here to be an investment in road projects, on these practical projects that we can undertake in order to meet the less demand in the private market. It's not in this package. The newer package is still too small. I think it's so obvious. New birth is a magic word in a crisis. There's an extra billion on the Sea of Korea, but that's too small. The increase in funds for research and innovation is turning back. Why don't we put more in, for example. The film fund? We don't know where the next Marel or Meniga will be. We don't know anything about who's gonna be the next Kormákur Kormak. This is a public way to get the wheels started only, to make good use of this fund, and we can do it with one point of the pen. Here's a little extra in the artist industry. I'm glad to hear it and I'm wondering where the Ministers got that great idea. I'm glad 100 artists are added to artist pay. There's 300 now. I wanted ten times the number of artists on the artists. I think it's a smart idea. We're happy to add 100 artists to artists' fees, but we realize that 3,500 independent artists are now experiencing frost in their activities, including the U.S.A. On the basis of government recommendation. Why is it better to have an artist on unemployment reform than the artists? It's a salary to be paid, so let's be clear about it. When people receive an artist's salary, they need to report, they need to be informed of driving and returning jobs. We would have more art, and we would have more activity, and we would receive tax returns. I wanted ten times the number of artists on the artists that would surely cost, and it costs as much as a percentage in increasing unemployment. Of course, it is much wiser to reassign these options even more. And then I'd like to talk about what's positive in the bill. I'm glad that now the public is getting ahead of them stress payments in the health and social services. I remind you it's almost 15 minutes since these blessed larger things made a similar suggestion. Why are we in these holes? We agreed on all of the proposals of the administrations in a previous pack of measures. The government groups, the forwarding party, the Independence Party, and the left greens dropped every suggestion of the government stand. What kind of sandbox game is this in an emergency? Today, there are other suggestions in this package that are in line with our adjustments in the government's opposition situation long ago. There's an increase in the cost of development. We made a similar recommendation, that's a good suggestion, that's great. We recommended to place extra money on the sick children and their families. They said it, but it's in the package, good thing. We wanted to place increased support in vegetable production, innovation, and so forth. All right, well, of course, we welcome all the steps we take in a position of government, but I think this is boring. If this blessed government agrees with us, why is it not all okay to agree to anything from the government groups using proben, Mrs. President, about 46% of the nation chosen? Then there's the media. I think what I asked the highest part is important to me. A minister in my opponent earlier, that the 350 million that are in this package and are to run to the press are added - I hope I don't misunderstand ministers, he can fix me afterwards - the 400 million that has already been decided to run to free media. This is important. If the administrative part doesn't cover the already mentioned media bill, about 400 million, I don't believe that the result will be 350 million media. I can't believe the amount is being dropped to the press. That's why I'm throwing it out. I understand at the highest. Minister that it's not the thought. The idea is that the free media gets 750 million. This is important for free media in the country and is a good thing. I can't believe that if the committee doesn't settle the case, the other 400 million will just fall, and the net increase will be 350 million, which really means a fall from what was set for an epidemic. Madam President. Deep down on my budget, I'm just worried about a few things. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ The solution of the emergency problem must not fail to lose sight of the fact that in the coming years, the level of income and payment will have to be adjusted indiscriminately and progressively to the level of debt until it is moderate again. It is rather poetic to talk about some balance of income and spending. In this sentence, you can read that once we are out of this emergency, we are in surgery. This means it in English. We will not accept that the public service, which is so important to our people in the country, will be taken down when things are only calm, that public employees and those who have public service, whether they are older citizens, desperate, patients, students, teachers, etc., will be paid back the debt that is now due to react, but I am concerned about it, Madam President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u50	A respectable president. I'm just going to tie up this question about the media so that it's perfectly clear. If the General Assembly will provide both this proposal and the Minister's bill, which is of the Education Committee, they will need additional financial clearance into this bill, because there is no particular financial warrant that follows the proposal that the Minister has the authority to negotiate. This is a little something in the hands of the council. If the council decides to do both, both agree to the Commission bill and grant the minister permission to negotiate up to 350 million. K. Pay this year, there is a need to ensure special financial resources for that, in addition to laws. On the other hand, if we just make this suggestion to the minister before 2020, there are already enough sources to pay for it. This would depend on the way a educational committee would handle the rest of the bill, e.g. of its implementation, from the time it would have to be financed as it would be a legal environment for the future. Other than that, I'm going to say that I like it. A senator does not bring up any solutions that can restore a valuable creation. Whatever it is. Of course, if we are not making money in the future to live up to the good public ministry we are living in today's fine public ministry, we are in a very difficult situation. Then there'll be two choices. On the one hand, to continue sliding and borrowing, thus considering the fine service that we enjoy today in the future, sending the account to the future, to young people, and to the children today, and to the future, saying: "We simply needed in 2020 and in such a good service to think that there will be someone in the future to pay for it. However, these are the options of borrowing, adapting to changing circumstances by reducing costs or creating new value. And that's what I want to see happen, making new things so that we can continue to enjoy this service. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u51	Madam President. Now I feel that there's only another sound coming to the minister regarding the media. Yesterday we were introduced to the press as an injection of 350 million. This was understood as an additional injection. Now it turns out, if I understand the Minister correctly, which I think I do, that this is not another thing. That would be a special decision we could make, if I get it right. This is simply a reduction. We had decided to put 400 million people in the media. However, the committee has not been removed, even. To the Independence Committee, as I understand it. This addition, in turn, comes only by personal choice. That 350 million. K. is simply a reduction from what was planned if the committee does not resolve the matter. I'd rather have seen this about 750 million. We've decided on budget that 400 million should go to the press. Then the committee should just resolve how it is implemented. The government's decided to put 400 million in the free media, and I thought we were putting more on them now. I'm sure what's going on here will attract a lot of attention. I agree with the Minister on valuable things, of course we have to create something of value, but I'll name two. I've often been screaming about the fact that we have to put more in innovation, that makes value, puts more in the fund, into Technical Development Fund. I know it's been added, but it's too small. Let's put more in Korea, put more in the movie fund, which took 30% of the last ones into it. It's a valuable thing to do. Finally, I would like to contribute to public investments and projects too. We are in a certain inner debt, a term that has been used. We need to invest in public wood. That will bring us rich blessings in the future. [[The president calls.]] It must not always be approached, so public anger does not hold much value, since public life creates something of great value. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We're supposed to have a public investment, especially in such a condition. It's simply good politics and good economics, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u52	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u53	A respectable president. Back about the media. However, this is a monopolic procedure against a permanent law, which is the case with the committee. 400 million that had. Of course, a senator mentions funding for a legal bill that could have taken up the whole of the year 2020 and is still in the hands of the council but is a permanent arrangement. In other words, there is a legal environment that is being built for the future media activity in the country. What we're suggesting is that, at least, at least... At least now during the single - change operation, this 350 million people. That's the point. This may result in considerably greater productions for the media of this year. It even goes. after the implementation of a new media environment bill, when it will be out, and when it will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u54	Madam President. I'm not going to go on with my business, but monopoly support the media was determined on the last budget, current financial law, 400 million. We've made that decision. That is why I find it quite remarkable that there is an interchange procedure that may be due to take over. I sure hope that more of the General and Education Committee will simply end that case with 400 million. K., because they are available. Congress wants to put 400 million in the media. Therefore, if the conclusion then, if not reached by the majority of the committees, is extremely strange, that the media may have a drop from 400 million to 350. These numbers are not large, but they are important to little media and really all the media. Let's just do it to the press that plays a key role with all information and democracies and stuff like that. I don't have to do that shit, let alone at this time. The government is now setting up some groups against false news. [[The president calls.]] We need media as much now as they do for us, so we do not become stingy when it comes to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u55	Madam President. It is interesting what the senator uses and has used this council winter and perhaps longer to boil everything from the government to ten points. Adopting it together is fine, but it usually has negative requests or needs to be done more and more. In itself, nothing is and never good enough, which is only politics, changing opinions about it. However, in view of the fact that he was doing a lot of public work, I would like to say that I can quite agree that we need to increase the number of public jobs and that we also have to distribute them all over the country. Some are nurses and teachers, and I don't know any better than working hard to do so, including the following: is being added to teachers who pay and pay for the past year. A report was submitted to the health minister five days ago as to which could be the best way to increase the number of nurses and try to adapt the work, the study environment, and so forth. They're working on this, but you can't just put money on something because we feel it. At times, it is wise for us to sit down and try to reach out. I hear what the senator says, he agrees that much is done and all that is done. But I don't think the wording is correct, both when the first pack of action came and now another pack of measures, that it's just a business package, not for families or homes. It is not enough to say that, of course, this is a matter of great importance. All the measures that have been made, very diverse, are to ensure the survival of the households, all the things we do here, e.g. in innovation and creating a more diverse flea we need. We've had more than once the eggs in the same basket that we need to change. The senator doesn't agree with me that it's better to put money on it than to add on unemployment insurance as he likes, i.e. Better to increase the number of jobs than to make unemployment changes? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u56	Madam President. I don't know. The senator said that left was green in the last election, with the campaign word, better. I'm breaking my finger. A senator and her party to do better. I don't think it's satisfying when it's dark. Councilmen bring a raise in this package, which increases government spending by 1 percent. Is it doing better? It's too small. I know that if anything happens. A senator would certainly be in another government. Since there is a negative spirit, I feel better. A senator to review his talks from her position of government. It is our job to encourage and criticize you. Of course it's my job. I want to see more ambitious suggestions on the welfare and innovation. Got it. A senator of the social package of 8.5 billion satisfied when we face one of the greatest depressions of 100 years? 8.5 billion ain't nothing. We're talking about 1,000 billion, that's the law of the law. The land production is 3,000 billion, so we can do better. About the jobs you had. A senator speaks of the need to increase unemployment. Wants to play. Don't a senator raise unemployment rates? We too need to make our own work. We can expand our public ministry. I play here all these points, I'm trying to send ideas to you that hopefully find their way to you in part. I think the artistry has even. Make sure you know where you are. I'm trying to influence this blessed government and draw out the points of conflict. You know which direction I'm gonna come from, and hopefully you'll get a close look at this. We're all in the same boat, you use that phrase, but show it to us. Consider something, not just the government side but also the labor movement, which has also been very Greek on these packages. [[The president calls.]] This is not just the voice of the Speaker of Ágúst Ólafur, the labor movement, and the organization of tourism are very cynical on your packages. [[The president calls.]] This is not to be judged as a negative charger of the chair because it is not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u57	The President continues to trajectory again. Senators respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u58	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. You see, it's a little bit about how we're laying down money that's primarily to be used for this year's work. Now that we are approaching May, we must be convinced that what we are offering will be useful as soon as we can get it done. Right away. A senator speaks of adding all these funds so that they swelled out, he has no assurance that we can use all this money to create jobs. Neither he nor we have it in our hands. We're adding from the last package. We're using the technique used by the trident. We just pass along to see how things work. Where does anything fit? It is still being examined and will be taken before next time, e.g. the damages and the other things we have to go through. I agree that we must always want to create jobs, whether they are public or not - and they're publicized, that everyone is becoming more and less public. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Surely we can say that the innovation we are creating is public. And everyone in this together means state, societies, and people in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u59	Again, the President reminds me of him. Councilmen on the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u60	Madam President. I bring up ideas that are going to attack right now, such as with a Technical Development Fund. Technology fund was able to finance only 28% of the budgets received at the highest rate. There are lots of innovation projects that could be attacked in terms of meeting the first grade, but what is missing is capital. Another is that it appears that there is a growing dissatisfaction with the collective agreement made with nurses. Why is it not just a good - looking approach to nurses, especially at this time? This would increase the number of jobs and improve the ministry that really affects us these days. It's an operation that can be started immediately. We've put together a number of practical projects that involve both genders, green investments, in every part of the country you've dropped, but could be attacked immediately. Time is now, Madam President, to do much more. The ice is now. This does not always mean pointing to the next package and the next package. [[The president calls.]] The proposals are in order, Madam President. And with all due respect, boy. Senator, you are not like three-eyed men.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u61	...using the same methodology, I said.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u62	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I want to stop for a second. A senator for the homes. I feel like there's a real lack of reasoning in the middle of nowhere. A senator in what context and in what sense he uses the expression, evidently in politics, not to mention a single word in his home. If we think about this from a financial cycle and the measures we've been taking, pack one and package two, what are basics in the economy? It's the homes, and that's the companies. The company depends on the workforce, and the home depends on the financial expenses, and then there's a treasure creation when a salary is used to pay for goods and services. This economic cycle is being protected, hence homes. I know why. A senator knows this, so I miss when such words are expressed, that they are put in context and have meaning because they are indeed reacting. We're in financial crisis, economic crisis, and it's temporary. How far she goes, we don't know. The only thing that everyone agrees about, international analysts and others, the nations dealing with the same thing is that it is completely uncertain. Then it is not unusual for us to take this in the form of a budget and in a safe step while the uncertainty of the situation is resolved. Talk about context and meaning, boy. A senator has been talking about 1 percent and then talking about 1 percent and then some sandbox game. I'll get to that in the second answer, but I also feel like there's a lack of meaning and context in this percentage point. I can flit around here other percent, I'll do it in a later answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u63	Madam President. I was calling attention to what caught my attention, after completing this pack of measures, that there was not one word in the home. I just think it's a story about who the focus is. Of course, I know people work for companies and they are doing positive things, so being reasonable, but it really matters how people approach things. There could be some measures to improve the domestic status, to improve their income loss, such as increasing unemployment rates, such as a handsomely reimbursement of loans without cost to consumers. For example, there is a possibility that forced sales could be delayed. The jobs people are missing or less likely to be doing, etc. The friend should be at home, but he is not. Something else that's missing in this is the little companies. They are primarily given means of borrowing. Where is the direct support for the small companies forced to close because of a loss of income? He's nowhere. Where is the handsome injection to actually increase the number of jobs? That's why I'm putting forward my idea of increasing public employment, making more attractive to work for the government. We control the government. We are the government employer on behalf of taxpayers. This is really a practitional way to attack. Why don't we increase artists in the artists as I used to know? It's really practitiony and real and just the same with the innovation fund. They make jobs. I just think it's too pathetic and pathetic that we're being offered in packs one and two. Not all of this is hopeless, of course not, but I think there was just more to it. If I understood the Parliamentary Party of the Left Green, right in television news yesterday, the members of the board were given a presentation on the proposal yesterday. It would be nice to receive the information from the head of the House of Booths whether it is true. [[The president calls.]] These suggestions are not developed through governmental opposition, but are they not formed by members of the government? [[The president calls.]] I think ideas will improve as more people come to them. It'll also make more peace with them, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u64	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's answers. I may start just because he left in his speech. That's exactly what I'm talking about, and the sandboxes are about to go. A senator in his entropy speech, that when we took a package one, the committee all worked together, and the proposal increased by a quarter - and men climb at a point of 1 percent - from the highest levels of the original proposals. Governments. It may also be noted that the investment package in this suggestion is 33% of the current budget for a whole budget year, a third. If we take the overall extent of the action so far and gather it, the scope of action, not the direct expenses, it's a third of the current budget. We constantly say that as soon as we take these steps safely, we must evaluate the situation. It's being done every day, in all the council groups. Because of what? The senator's entry into the shape of this is a constant debate from day to day, where we're working on proposals, molding proposals in the debates, coming into the Senate Hall, into the committees, and thus we'll just have to keep working on it. I'm sorry to hear about a sand case in an emergency. That's just not the point at all. Work to get it done. The budget at package one was shared all the way in which the proposal changed by a quarter. [[The president calls.]] I appreciate it so that we have agreed together with these suggestions, even though the government had since come into a chamber with many other suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u65	Madam President. What I meant by a sand box game is that the Generals took all our suggestions. We agreed to all your suggestions. Now we've made some suggestions that we've just made and you've made. I think it's a sandbox game, passing suggestions just because they come from a government position in this room. Now, as it is presented, I suggest that we return to a financial committee and try to improve it as we did last time. You're right next door. Senator, things are getting better with the council. The ban came after members of a number of categories said that it was completely unnatural for companies who were paid for money to pay off. Enlightenment of who gets the mortgage didn't come from the government, it came from us. Yeah, let's just turn the pies together and add some fresh stuff, hear the stakeholders, and do some more. Remember, we've got the funds, let's not wait for the secretary's permission on what we're going to defend. Honestly, let's not do that. It's really good economics and politics to spin pies together, right, left and middle, and do more because of course I know our goals are the same. We want to be mild - hit, defend jobs, make jobs. [[The president calls.]] Then let's just do it in a handsome way, all of us. I think that's what they're calling for.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u66	A respectable president. We're discussing government action, the package for Covid. There's one thing we haven't really talked about, and it's time to talk about, and that's the Secret Bank's currency reserve. The last time I knew, it was over 900 billion, but KPMG was making a report, and it shows that the drop in currency will be 330 billion. Already, more than one third of the currency reserves go there. It reduces, and we also know what the situation is with fish and aluminium, so that the currency supply could quickly disappear. What? Maybe we're way too calm. Perhaps it's time we thought about putting it on a currency head. What will be our situation after a year or a half? We have to think ahead of ourselves in this context too. I asked the highest. The secretary of finance in an unsubstantiated question-free period of insurance, and he pointed in his answer at 0% interest to 2026. He was saying that he was talking about what is on the market with a bill that has nothing to do with the public and the house's insurance loans. The fact is, prices of contracts are in the housing market, rent and loan. And we must not forget that those who are still out there with a loan from an apartment loan are many of those who are in the lowest salary and disability. They have the worst loans you can get today. There, you've taken over 4.5% and even up to 4.9% on top of your insurance policy. These people haven't had a chance to change this. It also tells us that if the inflation takes place, this is the group that will get used to it. We know the experience, and I ask, " Do we not learn from the collapse? ' There were 15,000,16,000 homes, and we know the consequences. The ministers say over and over in a pit that they're not worried about the inflation, that it won't start, yet it says the highest. Secretary of finance was so impressed that he's not going to make sure that he disassociates the insurance. He turned and said that it could not be taken into the future. No one was asking for it, they're simply asking for temporary decommissioning of the insurance insurance bills. Why on earth should that be so difficult? The minister repeatedly says that we need not worry about the inflation, but something must be prepared if they do not want to do this. They need to answer that question. These packages are supposed to promote mental health, so I enjoyed it back here, and I'm good. But we must also realize that there is much to be said about the availability of medical and mental - health services if people cannot use it because they cannot afford it. It doesn't matter whether it's one or a hundred if the most needed are not able to use the ministry because they can't afford it. Then we're making options just for the more wealthy. In Britain a survey proved that people's lives are cut short by a limited amount of about 10◯12 years. The health of the poor is severely reduced by poor food, poor access to healthy services, and poor housing. Now we are in a position to have a financial collapse, but how did the bank collapse turn out? Have we forgotten? V.E.G. The minister of finance was here in a lecture protecting not to stop the insurance, it would take the older citizens and the public out of the country, but has he forgotten what happened to the pension fund in the collapse? If we make up the loss, it's not less than 1,000 billion. How much taxes were lost there? 400 billion. It's all forgotten, or what? At the same time, there is a package that is somewhere at the council but nothing on the way. He's supposed to save seniors. When is that supposed to be? Why are older citizens completely abandoned? They are not mentioned on a name anywhere. Yes, thanks to the fact that very few people are being dealt with, the worst put to death by means of poor housing. That's great, and that's to be done. At the same time, however, there is no need to spit in for those most needed, disability, older citizens, and people in the lowest of the wage, and should try in some strange way to live in the subsidies just over 200,000 bucks, even low-payers, for the living of 280,000 bucks. paid. It tells itself it doesn't work. If you look at this package that is being installed, there are 8.4 or 8.5 billion in the social package. Consider this 8.4 billion. Shall we put them in context to an answer I received from the social and child-friendly minister on a loss to senior citizens and micro-pierges? In 2015 older citizens were affected by 36 billion, 2019 44 billion, a 20% increase. Shall I tell you yet a terrible story, a horror story? During that same period, it has cut by about 60%, from 10 billion to 16 billion. Is there any surprise that the 2018 and 2019 years are no commercial gains for this group? It's just a minus down. At the same time, they have made sure that they have the same dollar number from 2017, $25,000. Peasant markets for pension income, that's what you're doing. This has been the case since 2017, has not been raised, and as a result, it is dwindling and does not give the same amount. That is why this is an increase in tax returns to those who should be least paid. The same applies, e.g. ... aboutthefreemark of disability, which probably remained unchanged in the second decade, 109,000 k, should be well over 200,000 k. But nothing happened. No, it's just for the future. It must also be said that many things are fine in this package, and so be celebrating, but as we have seen, the majority of them turn to the economy. It's fine, but the firms are nothing if the home falls down and the vice versa, if the homes also stand badly, the companies will fall apart, so, in between, it needs to be balanced. It has to make sure it's balanced. It's cool, indeed, that we have 2.2 billion people working for students, but at the same time, we also have 800 companies that can apply for help, which cost 28 billion. In this context, we also need to realize that the 8.5 billion that the government puts in the social package are only 12◯13% of what it reduces in total by older citizens' wages and disability in one year. We've never seen this before. We also need to look at this in the context of the 60 billion total reductions in older cities and microorganisms. It is similar to one university hospital every year. How can we make this happen? I reiterate that the largest group of micromasks is to live at 255,000 bucks. which, in turn, are taxed and reduced in a chain-based manner. The older citizens have 257,000 dollars, the worst of them, and it's impaired. Unemployment has 290,000. Inadequate, artistic pay 407,000, nothing impaired, artists may work in this sector, sell, and do what they want to do. Who made this system? Then, the part-time wage we've negotiated in packages of 400,000,700,000. There we have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven different entries. It must have taken blood, sweat, and tears, and a lot of confusion to figure out how to deal with such differences. Where's the balance? I've asked and asked over and over, trying to get answers. Who calculated this? Why is this so? Is this a natural law? The answer is: No, it's a decision made in the Assembly Hall, a decision that is protected and maintained year after year. Then we must ask: Why? We must also ask, in the context of the fact that we must not forget that before the last election, the highest power was sent. Secretary of finance a letter to all the senior citizens of the country. What did he promise there? He made it clear that he would cut down and correct the former citizens from 2009. Has it happened? No. Will that happen? Not as long as this government is in control. That's for damn sure. She's just going to maintain this amazingly unjust system that seems to submit to the argument that there is no equality, justice, or human rights because there is no equality, justice, or human rights to say to people: You're supposed to live at 150,000. Less than anyone else, less and more. We're going to make sure that you get medical help, mental help, and everything, but we're also going to make sure that you can't afford it. How on earth are we going to let this happen? I've got it all figured out, as I said in answer to the highest. Secretary of finance, that it costs us much less, I would say ten times, even 50-fold or 100-fold less, to make sure these groups receive free medical care, no matter what form it is. Let's do it now, let's stuff the well, let's show it once - and I hope it's the next package - that we're serious, that we're not going to forget the least of them, and that's the worst in our society because their time is long, and that's the best of it. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u67	A respectable president. First, be sure that the pack of measures that the government offers today is about much very nice, especially the social emphasis shown in various measures. They may be small and trivial, but things such as providing funds for leisure to children in low - income homes are a major step toward child care. Here we go on chapters to strike two birds in one strike, to soften the shock of Covid, but to build at the same time a better community. I must admit, though, that the suggestions are considerably less than I had expected. Maybe it was just a stop, but I always saw that a pack of two operations would be even bigger than a pack of measures, in view of the fact that the problem has appeared to us as much deeper and more long-lasting than it was originally thought. Therefore, it is not too much to add a third of the above procedure pack one. Only one third of the funds contained in the first package are included in the two operations pack. The evidence reveals something that we frequently turn to but causes some anxiety when we are dealing with a difficult situation, as it is now. How little it seems to be in the government for a deep analysis of the condition or the consequences of possible legislation. It's one thing about the gender motive because it's just mentioned in the report. Yesterday, an interview was made at the highest level. The prime minister who said it was important that we had a gender objective in our response to Covid-19 and made sure that this crisis does not result in a relapse in sex equality. That's what we know. This is what we know from the 2008 collapse crisis. Nevertheless, it is shown in a budget bill that only the social action of the package has been determined by the influence on sexual equality, only social measures. It would have been preferable to evaluate other measures in a comparable way, but that is not just desirable; it would have been necessary to do so. We shouldn't have gotten that in our hands unless we detected it. This is a major factor in how we distribute public funds, especially in a crisis situation. There has been much discussion of agreement and nonverbal communication in connection with government action, and this reveals a methodology for consultation with the government opposition in this document. It involves recycling the ideas of the government side of the month after it has been presented as a change in proposal and made to a member of the government, but perhaps a little less ambitious than the ambitions manifested at that time. But these are good ideas, and they're in the mood now, as is the case. Health Care Professional stress payments, although both the group have been tighted and the overall results have been reduced from the smaller parts provided several weeks ago. It is also positive that there is support for innovation in food production, although there was a lack of clear green goals that were making changes in the smaller parts of the day. Besides, it's nice to focus on this increased emphasis on innovation, which is in several places in the economy. The packs contain a number of old acquaintances, both we know from the proposals of government opposition to a previous pack of measures, but they also include projects that were used well in the years following a crash, so we are resorting to tools that we often know well and often know well and know how to function. For consultation and conversation in general, you might wonder why no more is discussed with the public and companies, smaller companies in tourism, e.g., what measures are needed to cope with their circumstances. I hope that it is not viewed as an acceptable sacrifice that there will be a mass shortage in travel service if it can be avoided. The companies in a travel service that has been suggested, since the proposals were made, that there is not enough protection in these measures are often small family companies around the country of innovation in tourism and now face an unprecedented pay drop that must be handled in some way. Lock-up grants for a company that's been closed because of a law order are good for their hat. But how do we help, e.g. all the little accommodations and restaurants around the General House, the little bunkhouses all over the country? This could be solved by setting up a team, gathering dozens of people from the class, settling with them into the board of directors, asking: What is needed? But it does not seem to have been done. Then there is a consultation between the parties, or what should we call it, contracted, conflicted. It is noteworthy that travel minister and marine eco-efficiency ministers will use the opportunity to establish two new units, one Kristian Investment Fund and one on the other, a food fund, to get the funds in the work pack at the highest level. The Minister of Education and Culture will not be allowed to complete a complete bill for private media support to get money for their work. It must be avoided in providing the support of the Regulation this year, simply because there is no agreement between the groups that form a government together. Everyone else here at the council is long ready to give the Minister of Ministers on the General Education and Education Committee, which is aground on government alliances. There seems to be a lack of discussion with the rural communities, especially with regard to the measures in which they simply expect to be formed. Here we are retrieving the fine project Summerwork for students, which proved to be good in the years following a collapse. Three thousand jobs are to be created if your rural society comes to the table. However, rural communities call for more money to support the basic services of rural society. Here we need to discuss with our rural communities to see if there is a higher level of control, and in that conversation we need to open up to the clear distinction that often exists between the state and the community when it comes to financial resources. We are all in the same boat, and there is no patience about whether state or rural society should be the source of the cost of something that is in the interests of the public. For the emphasis on innovation and research in the operation package, there's something wrong with the fact that it's on the basis of enterprises turning the wheels of the industry. It often wants to be. These are manufacturing branches, these are technical features. Rather, they are not articles such as intellectualism, social science, and educational science, but they are crucial when it comes to, for example. the goal of supporting the media to serve, to perform an information and democratic role. There is also a innovation in education. There is a innovation in all of these articles. The road we have available for innovation in these articles, e.g. Research fund, which had an increase of 30% in operations pack one, which is still hardly in the nose of a cat for a fund that had only 14% in success rates of applications last year. If we put that increase in context, it's 700 million while this is being suggested for maximum reimbursement of one company to be 900 million. Any addition to the Research Fund is lower than what the government is willing to indulge in a market company. Then you can ask yourself: " Is the route of a travel, industrial and innovation minister to provide innovation money through a fund that has not been established necessarily the most efficient way to get them to work, whether it should rather be considered like employment development companies to get it out of the ground as soon as possible? I would like to mention what has only been discussed in this discussion, the application tool involved in increasing the number of public activity. This is not out of some sort of crisis as to whether the state should be big or the state's supposed to be small, but it's just facing the fact that the state is already paying a large group of people, and it will do so at least ... thisyear. We're talking about 35,000 people in partial reform today and another 15,000 in full unemployment. The model for Bible students, on which they call for ideas from institutions to be used, could be taken into consideration. This could be extended before a temporary increase in public staff. A lot of institutions would do well to get several employees for a year or two to do some work and set up a specific schedule for the ministry. There could be countless ideas from institutions far and wide in order to get people of the land simply out of unemployment to be useful to society. Since then, where can the number of public staff be increased permanently to support various community infrastructures? We know exactly where the shoe fits most, I name nurses and teachers. There are two classes that need more hands into their own systems. Here we need to remember that green structure is not just the Tea and Carb fix and some technical solutions. Green structure is also having ambitious, well - paying, well - educated teachers at any school because it builds up a future society. Green construction is a means of providing a free, powerful health system, a scholarship, to support people for education, so that a social security network of individuals does not rest on their financial situation. Here's a huge challenge, and I hope that the minister of finance would wind down from the dogma heard from him in the earlier discussion that it would be most ignorant to increase the number of public jobs at a time when the state is just, thank you, start paying the salary of a large part of the labour market. I would like to briefly mention that it is acting as a lack of vision so that action does not work against the aims of other measures. Then I'd like to give you one example: Let's side the approach to consumer protection, which means that people don't get their money back because of their travel. What effect does this have on traveling within the country? If a family who bought it at serials trips to the sun in January and is still paying off from it now has an introduction, she is not going to travel within the country. It is not as if she had another million at work to make that journey after making something similar on her family trip in the sun. [[The president calls.]] This is what I'm afraid is some kind of state's blindness, thinking that people in the community are generally vulnerable to two outland trips a year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's just that it's not.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u68	A respectable president. I'm gonna have a little chat. A senator on the increase in public employment I find very interesting because in certain areas of the government, there is an overwhelming lack of public employees in a particular court order. Therefore, there is a long waiting period for various kinds of decision committees and so on, a waiting period for a businessman for e.g. child protection and custody. There is a real lack of staff workers, which makes the service at present poor. It would be very normal to increase the number of staff there. The other gear, in turn, is a measure of self - activity and self - payment that we should still go on to do some more efficient things that should lead to reduced numbers of public jobs without harming civil service. There is a number of options for increasing public activity. It can be done with innovation through projects such as Freights based on projects. It certainly has official funding, but the staff involved is simply the people in the community who come up with ideas on their own terms, but they will not necessarily be a public employee, even if they use public funds. You can talk about increasing public activity in relation to work, whether it is for government employees or government projects. I think it really feels the same thing that there plays a bit into what a minister said, that he thought it was ridiculous. In fact, we want and need increased public activity, but this may lead, not to a technical increase in public employment, but to a public contribution that makes up the work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u69	A respectable president. I think that the key to this is, as the senator entered, that we are talking, not about raising the number of public jobs, but because of the services being performed by people in them. Is it negative that the State will blow out, as it is sometimes called, if that growth of the Kingdom involves improvement of the people's health, increased education, prosperity, and happiness? I don't think so. We must arrive at some reasonable conclusion in this very time when huge groups of people who often have a high level of professional experience are going on about their jobs. Whether it is better that the State defends tens of billions of people in hand with no social work or that we use the application and invite large groups of these people to do meaningful things that improve society? At such times, projects such as Frustration and employment development companies, as mentioned, and a variety of support systems that we have around the country can be viewed as a highly efficient means of reaching these people to promote public services and support innovation in the grasslands.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u70	A respectable president. I hope that this understanding has been expressed to a minister, how can it not be mistaken for an increase in public activity as a literal increase in the number of jobs for the sake of the work? If the highest. A minister would like to continue to misunderstand it, please consider our exchange of words. Another thing I'd like to mention is a reimbursement instead of a reimbursement. You're right. A senator points out, but there is another joy to note, and he turns to foreign tourists who travel in Iceland. They're being treated a little badly, too. They're supposed to save Icelandic companies when it comes to foreign tourist travel here, so they keep their trips here instead of paying them back. I don't think it's too much to treat them, and there's nothing unlikely that in connection with all these state responsibilities and things that are going on right now there's going to be some kind of contracting in Iceland's tourism service. There are new enterprises that do not necessarily have the same commitments to the accounts or to whatever it is. This would be very painful for those of us who are trying to come here to visit the country and have produced economic growth in the last decade. Let us do more for them so that we can do better for ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u71	A respectable president. We may discuss the experience better later today, but I have to admit that I feel that I really consider the risk of a life-friendly travel agency to a person, a cross to consumers, to people who have already put a lot of money into buying a trip that will not be gone, in the hope that it could be considered the next year. If it is willing to protect these companies by any means, would it not be more clear that it would be by direct intervention, by strengthening them directly rather than using them by means of a public scholarship distributed to those who have been involved in business with companies in the past few months? It's a social approach, but not what the Minister suggests. I agree with the senator, and I hope our stand on the increase in public activity is being presented to the minister. As it has been in recent weeks, we may be able to see what we are here talking about in Action pack three. Let's see if we can sort these matters out on committee jobs here in the next few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u72	A respectable president. Annexes 2020, No. 2. Interesting. For the first part, several factors such as the part-time work route, the staff of employment loans, the continuation of corporate tax pay, the payment of an environment, the benefit of children's benefits, the assessment of special savings, the support of travel services, the expansion of all jobs, the payload of imports and investment initiatives. This ended to 25.5 billion. There was nothing about a shelter for the home of the people of the land except, indirectly, as a minister has said, to strengthen the people and the people through their companies indirectly. There's no signal on the medical system. Emphasis that help companies rather than people in the way that the goal seems to be the same after the situation is over, everything should be as before this began, as if somehow the world would be the same after this situation. It is obvious that this so - called economic system we have been trying to work for in recent decades based on stability is nothing like that. There are several reasons why. The currency may be taken into account, but the main reason is also how Icelanders have constantly put their eggs in the same basket; in the sea bus, in the river, in the banking industry, and now in the last resort. We've got some serious shit going on here. And then we're gonna be really surprised when it's swingin' around after those few baskets. The goal has been for a long time but has never been to experience, since government emphasis has never been in the sense of building up the so - called fourth support of a new creation. It was to create a variety of jobs, which, in effect, are swinging, not for stability, but for sustainability. Self - control is the most important thing, for that term means being able to handle tragedy. Trying to adjust stability in an effort to avoid the trauma simply does not work. We must try to build past tragedy and assume that it will come in the most unexpected way. Such an epidemic had been expected for some time, just a matter of time, in scientific fields. If we were to build ourselves up as a sustainable society, we would, for example, have, been able to... Don't worry about food production. We would not be concerned about losing the roof, and if we have a roof over our head and food in our stomach, there is nothing much more to worry about after all. This second section discusses a final concentration of 2.5 billion, which is good and blessed, nothing unusual about it. There's always a question of the amount and distribution of it. It will be difficult to accomplish, I can imagine, and look forward to considering how it will be handled. Support loans are spoken of with 100% national responsibilities. You don't see the amount behind it. It is likely a part of the 60 billion mentioned in these other packages. It is very difficult to trace or calculate it in any way, or to argue that it is up to 60 billion because part of the operation is a loan that should be reimbursed, etc., certainly with the state responsibility. But when we did some mountains, like... the State responsibilities of the first package were found to be only to lend to viable companies. At the same time, it is assumed that quite a part of her falls down and falls on the state. Then you ask, "How can you resist if you're only supposed to lend money to viable companies?" A viable enterprise is expected to be able to pay back the state's responsibilities. There are conflicting factors, but we hear one thing, and then there is another. All of this will be of interest to you. It is especially important in such a situation that when making decisions in a hurry, you will be closely monitored for the resources outlined here. In this regard, income tax balance is relatively vague, but it appears to be a firm decline in corporate profits in 2019 to 2020, thus something similar. It is unclear how many billions there are. Mental health and telecommunications at 540 million, very nice. Protection for children and families of 895 million is remarkable that it has not come before. True, it was noted that there is an added stress in such situations that calls for an increase in funding. But given the current funding in these cases, it seems to be quite an extra load, and I'm guessing that this was a previous budget and that the amount is that big. Special support for rural areas, especially Southnes, of 975 million. Enough to do there, enough to do for rurals on their farms. We've talked about farm society quite often here, they're too small for what they've been doing. Some options for students, which are part of a workforce of up to 5 billion. That's a good idea. But I find it remarkable that summer courses in college are being encouraged and that are also unemployment improvements for students, a mere intervening. Yes, indeed, people can choose, and maybe not all colleges or colleges will have summer courses, the effective unemployment benefits, which are good. The increase in food production of up to 500 million, that was suggestions for making changes at the first package. It's great to see them there. A newly created church of 1.8 billion. It's finally here. We've lost a month because we set this up about a month ago and we could have gone. We are even losing a good part of the summer in using that money. I hope they get back quickly so that they can be used as soon as possible. Above all, especially, perhaps most important, should not be overlooked by health care providers in the future of 1 billion. The minority had a change of 2 billion to the first package, perhaps a little wider than in many respects, as the minister said, there were questions about the implementation, etc. But the ideas we had about exported had been tore into a budget committee that sounds exactly like those here in the bill's report. That's all it took. This would be the financial right now, the Ministry of Health, and other institutions to start this immediately instead of waiting longer. I've heard some people suggest that these stress payments reach all concerned, e.g. The cleaning equipment has been mentioned as having plenty to do to care for the hygienic and disinfectants in these places. The fundamental question that I have is as usual: What problem does each operation face? Who is expected to reverse that action? There is no answer, as is usually the case in the financial process. We do not really have the scope of the problem, nor do we have any criteria to determine the benefits of these financial provisions in the final analysis. It's a classic problem. It only plays into that we made a comment, and I made a comment about the sensory budget in the first package. It's at least a post-hoc analysis of the social components of this package, but I did not see much about, e.g. Green goals, if we're to form a synopsis on the green economy. But there is a sexy budget in the social package. There's not much analysis, it was just a statement that it would be at least The condition, if not only for the better. That's all there was to it. We live in a bit of a monotonous business life, and these methods should be able to make a measure of simplicity easier, but for some reason they are very complex and unmarked, and they are very pierced. The context of action is not very obvious, considering the problems. First, it was the fishing road that was always in trouble, moving along the way. Since then, there have been a number of lifestyles in which the energy system was built, and the bank function for collapse, which was now a major inflation, the last of which was the tourism industry. It won't do anything, as I said, on this fourth foundation that was supposed to be a innovation so that we're not always putting all the eggs in the same basket. We must start thinking differently about the future. It's a good thing to set, for example. Documents for defined projects, such as domestic health. We should have more of such defined projects, as there is clear evidence of what is next on the list of projects, and the General meeting can increase funding for projects that are already analysed on the basis of profits, quantities, and the like. But no, we're not that lucky. At any rate, it is heartwarming to see that this reaction takes on many assignments. One thing I make a special remark to is that we are facing this problem, that as I feel, relatively small steps. We now see this in the scope of the problem and how long it may last to say that these are very small steps that have been stepped into packages one and two. I am concerned that we are really missing out on certain opportunities that we could have started earlier if larger steps had been taken right away. This was pointed out during the discussion to begin with that the first pack of measures had been announced three weeks prior to the event. What people knew about the extent of the problem changed dramatically, but the package did not seem to change much. We would've wanted to start a big, smaller step towards the windows in the process, but we're not starting a big one. We are taking relatively little steps as time passes, and the gaps are much larger than they might otherwise be. We need to think a little bit about the fact that the debt of a state's budget is never a problem if the interest of the debt is greater than the debt plus interest. It must also include the cost of the damage we are trying to prevent. We need to think about this, especially the P-projects that are being tried to enter this council. In a sense they may be an excellent idea, but they will always be more efficient by public funding, as long as public funding is inexpensive than the financing of a private market. If the project is profitable, it is always better for the government to do so instead of cooperating with private people, if the debt of the state funds is inexpensive than in a private market. We need to think about this now. However, it's just a matter of time spent in the entire budget. The wealth is a little good now in relation to several other periods, it's a small debt, and so on. But as I've mentioned many times before, we have an inner debt. It's very hidden because we really don't see how much it costs us. We're hiding this wood debt in the good standing of the state funds, and now we're going to have to wrestle with this deposit and we're going to make a debt of state funds. If we didn't have an inner debt, we'd have better wood to deal with the pressures we've had, e.g. in the health system. The reason, as it was explained, that we had to take aggressive measures such as meeting bans, etc. was protecting the health system from stress. If the health system had been able to handle more pressures, everything could have been more liberal and less limited. We've got to think about this a little bit from the start. This increase is very business-based. You can help people through a business, but we're here for people. It's supposed to be our first focus, to think about people, not through business, but start with people, it makes companies. Businesses don't make people, you can't turn them around. If we support people, we also support companies. [[The president calls.]] If we strengthen our business, we may support people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u73	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. It was especially near the end of his speculation about business and people. In some political way, someone goes off with something and says that homes are just outside the program in all of this, and people aren't involved. Let's just start by considering what is being done in other parts of the world. If we take the North countries, it's a very similar operation. How do we look at this, there, and here? We are looking at a financial cycle that is seriously damaged. What are the two basic provisions for a financial cycle? It's people and business. They depend on each other, on the work force at work, and on the manufacturing device. It is paid in the form of a job wage that is then used to buy goods and services. It's called value. This discussion has to stop. One cannot arise and discuss this in this context. You can't, because it's wrong, it's just nonsense, but... Senator, I'm sorry. I can't believe that there are more people here going to come up with this discussion and talk in this way. That's not possible. Then there is a contradiction in a talk. A senator, because I know he's very precise, specific and developed measures, and he says at the same time that we should have taken the biggest steps at first when it was completely uncertain. What analysis? Of course, it is only natural for us to realize how far this goes and how much the economic cycle read that we take it in progressive steps and in harmony with the current budget. It is a direct warning against international institutions that opportunities are used to save money in all directions, as if a government fund were an inexhaustible resource. [[The president calls.]] It's not like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u74	A respectable president. Thank you for mentioning other countries. You see, I've been aware that the government's actions here are a copy of what has been done almost everywhere else. It's just that they're imitating what's been done. It's relatively safe and comfortable for someone else to decide, and we're gonna do the same, and we're gonna have a good feeling that it was someone else who had the original idea. If that's a bad idea, we can blame them. We just did our best. We thought it was a good idea. You see, there's something that has to be said about this as I've been saying, with the people first. There are many examples of that, and it was spoken of in an unprepared question period earlier today, how to watch it when they're putting a pile of capital into a operation where we know we've been cheated and it's expected. We've been involved over the decades in tax companies that are covering various problems. You can't hide it if you let it go directly to the people or through projects such as innovation fund, Technologies, etc. We know what the effects are of a capital set up there. In view of the fact that government funds are not an unlimited resource, that is correct. I had no such statement. What I'm saying is that taking big steps first may well lead to a future analysis showing that the size is not as much as it could possibly be. But a budget doesn't mean spending clearance. No, you don't. At first, financial resources and big steps are about making sure that there is at least a measure of security in order to make use of what can be used without always being brought here and asking for money to come along with some very vague merits, as we do in recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u75	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answers. I'm gonna grab the ball where it's at. A senator left him behind last year's answer. I've talked about it, and I'm very involved because we're doing this in small steps, taking it in a couple of packages, and just through some extra cash. We are used to taking money here until the end of the year, where there is a demand for a year's expenses. I think it is very good to think that we are being accepted into the council requests for financial resources for some action, a targeted action, to deal with the situation in which we are in, and that we are doing so in the most organized way and really in the financial crisis management we are holding. Hv. In his talk, a senator gave a fine review of the action facing groups, and that is, once again, in harmony with what other nations are doing, the first action was to defend the cycle I took in my previous reply. Today, we focus on measures made to protect against negative social, economic, and health consequences. There's something we're learning, hopefully. I'll take the example of a hobby for children. It goes on a certain course, and it is encouraged that any action we take through the budget and the budget take place in a standard way, we're not starting something new, we're not going into a lot of system changes. We're putting funding into place for innovation, and that's fine. They're talking about the future. The empty - hour strengths pass through the rural communities, resulting in their return to the children who may be at risk of falling out of their leisure and sports activities. Of course, there is a very good, progressive operation that will take place, and that is how we should do the most. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u76	A respectable president. The emptyness is definitely an example of people first. But the reason I'm telling people first -- it's not either or, it's not just a person or just a business, it's probably both -- is that I'm trying to say that we need to focus on the windows and the streets first. I guess. A senator has received e - mails, and no doubt a few e - mails, including an example of a young woman, a single mother who is in school who has been working two, three jobs by study in order to be able to care for it but loses these jobs. She asks me, "What are some options for me? " I have no idea, really. All these parts of the process, I don't know if her circumstances are really working for her. The puzzle we're trying to put together for people is very inaccessible. That's not acceptable. That's why I'm criticizing that there aren't people first. We first make sure there's no windows in which people get caught so we don't get one of these. We have to start there. What we were talking about on the budgets, getting them and accepting them first here at General but not after, was something I tried to mention, and more I think about the health system in the first package. There is a predictable cost in the health system, increased financial resources. No, no, we'll do it later. Why? I don't understand why. Is this to try to hide the magnitude of this money at the end of the year when it needs to be approved because the money has been spent? I don't understand why it needs to be done this way. You try hard to cope, and you realize where these measures are coming from and what the results are, but you never get the answers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u77	Mr. President. We're dealing with a lot of problems that are not easy to deal with, and there's no way you're afraid of what the future will be like. Hence, it is important that the steps we take believing, and they are satisfying according to what we see ahead. I'm not going to pretend to be so curious that I know exactly how the future will be playing out, whether it's the world's future or the economic situation. But the other thing, I think I can say it's a tough situation. In the beginning, when this year began, it was said by the government that everything that had to be done and done would be better than less. To tell you the truth, those words weren't exactly true. The package we're looking at right now has led to disappointment, and I think it's safe to say that he was very disappointed in many people in the community. Of course, this is true of all humans, and it is, of course, with it all the same as anything else. There is no need to say that what is done is beneficial. But that's not enough. That's why it seems to me that people everywhere say, "That's not what I needed. That's not what I expected. So I think there is a great deal of urgency that the score will be more fixed and more intensive in all of these matters. Now this is going to follow a particular bill that is being discussed right now and then the bills that are part of this package for committees and I believe that there will be room for significant improvement in this package. We must not fall into the trap of pushing the problem too ahead of us. He's got to be dealt with. Much of this action is being pushed ahead, but it is not eliminated. A lot of this is about postponing payment, borrowing, etc. It's not the best way. We're so lucky we're doing good economics. We have a relatively strong and powerful government fund. Our debt rate is low, and if not now, when should we be able to take advantage of this fine position? We must also take care to make sure that in all the years ahead, we create a situation in which we will always have the utmost equality and complete transparency of the state of every action, and that is foreknowable. There's always a risk of a lot of trouble in society, and it's going to be the same as before, that the quality will be misconstrued. Therefore, it is very important that we keep a good, strict watch on how this works out and that the best - standing ones cannot sweep down valuables in the power of ill - manneredness. If we deal only with any specific aspects of this, it is inevitable to start with the tourism. That's where I think the most disappointing thing to do is what's going on here. It seems that there are not very many who feel that this will help. Of course, we know that the tourism service was not as successful as it should, it had become overinvented, and it was evident that there would be a recession, but we must not let it happen to us that we understand this important profession so that it is on complete bread legs and cannot cope with it when tourists return to the country. Another way I feel is that I should mention in connection with my travel service, causing me a little bit of a fracture. Me and the Icelanders are a very touristing nation, and much of the Icelanders had planned to go abroad in the summer. They've all been canceled. In the months that followed, humans will likely not travel abroad. In many cases, consumers had paid the full amount of travel that has now been canceled. Now, a retrospective approach is made to ask people to wait to travel until the company can resume its journeys. I think there are some factors that have a very negative impact. I am convinced that the majority of those who had received the full payment today would use that money to travel within the country. The average person does not enter two expensive vacations during the same year. We are, in effect, asking people to travel within the country and, on the other hand, to accept the prospect of not receiving reimbursement. I think this is going to cause domestic tourism not to be what men expect, except that this is a proposed adjustment. Travel agencies had already promised their customers reimbursed, which is now beyond repair. I think it's the wrong method. I think there's some other way to go. Of course, I am fully aware of the challenges that travel agencies face, but there must be another way to solve this problem. I would also like to mention something else specifically. We face the challenge of a major industry once again. This is not the first time that problems occur in Icelandic employment, and it is a failure, although it is probably the biggest event and is quite different from other traumas. But what has been said to us every time that has happened? And what have we promised ourselves every time this has happened? That we are going to increase the variety of Icelandic jobs. We're going to have more support, we're not going to become this depending on one industry. But we always make the same mistakes. We start to trust in unique business projects that become too extensive in the community. Hence, taking steps to make two - year - olds is a source of great disappointment. While it's right to celebrate the emphasis on innovation and evolution, everyone knows that innovation and development is going to take a long time. Two - year - old arrangements just aren't enough. Such adventures are not designed to create something new and contribute to it their labors and money when men see beyond the limits of their time. It's got to make a change. We must say strongly here: We are going to think about ten years of age. We're going to raise the money that goes to innovation and development projects in the long run. Anyone who talks about innovation can be confident that it will be in the long run. We're also supposed to take bigger steps in lifting the roof on one side to the maximum human budget for research and development, and we're also supposed to raise the peak that each company can get. In fact, it may even be that the amount of money that can be detracted will be step - by - step. We're supposed to change this, but we're also supposed to give more money into Technical Development Fund and Research Fund and other competitive funds, and we're also supposed to promote and support very much the capacity of Icelandic companies to move into foreign funds. There's our chance. We've used them, but we can do even better. I also think it's very important to build up a fund. It might even be done in a more handsome way. But we need to ask ourselves, " How fast will he be starting? ' How fast can he start making money out to the companies? I think it would be wise that if it can't happen within a few months, it would be better, or better, to direct money to the funds I mentioned. There are plenty of ideas. These funds have always had to dismiss good ideas. There are plenty of ideas that can be worked on. Here we are not just thinking about the emergency problem, this will, of course, help you until, this is not the solution to him, but should be better equipped to finally achieve a wide variety of technical community and job life, which is a mind - making drive, which can live up to well - paying jobs and move intelligently and is not the means of an resource. I think it's very important that we keep this in mind. Two more things cannot be avoided. First, a plan for supporting the media, which is the best thing, I'm saying it. The Congress has been intruding with the bill on support to the media. There, the main groups of government have been unable to agree on which way to go, so it has been stopped. It's time to take action. I'm worried about the route I've taken, making Ministers of Education almost solely solely of how that money will be distributed. In addition, I think that this year's work has made 400 million earmarks, some 350 today. Finally, I would like to mention a special part of the social sector that is concerned with promoting a mental - health program that is extremely important. I still think we should have and should have taken a bigger step because it is the most important thing to put that service under Iceland's Medical Insurance. I'm not sure that it is necessarily the best way to try to put all of this together under the official system. We have independent experts in this field that are probably useful. But the important thing is that we view mental health as we do each other's. If there is a failure, assistance from public funds will come to deal with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u78	Mr. President. The economic actions that the government has presented under the economic standards or package number two will be mainly useful to small companies, although they also have social resources that are excellent, and I will be able to get closer to them. Highly known support loans, perhaps the most part of the operation. This is an important and positive operation for these enterprises, but it reaches only about Fifteen percent of the entire economy as a whole is looked over, as I was in response to the highest level. Secretary of finance earlier. The remaining 85% of those who can't really take advantage of this strategy are left. It is clear that support loans need to include more companies. Even medium-sized companies have problems. The range of income tax equations between years is positive, and I find out more about it afterwards, as well as the social resources as mentioned. In particular, I am grateful to have increased funding for innovation, procrastination, research, and evolution. It is a positive game in creative articles. I hope the government is going to put it into practice to support innovation in the country. Sadly, the examples show that the government's firmness in the affairs of innovations there has been. In recent years, not only have intelligent economic organizations been removed from all public support but they are well - established in the management system, that is, a fact. There is a great difference between institutions and university environment and general pioneers in applying to competitive funds. Legislants raised by government, e.g. Food or the New Arts Center for Iceland are in a position to gain the strength of competitive funds. The Agency can establish a secure tournament fund funded by government funds and large selections of experts who are also on the salary of a government fund. This requires the general candidate, who is often in the past, putting all handmade funds into his task and who is under attack to receive assistance by means of expert assistance. Unfortunately, there is far too much difference between parts of the country when it comes to innovation, and I really hope this extra reserve will be used to reduce it. Most institutions enjoyed by these privileges are in the capital area, but general pioneers are scattered throughout the country as we know each other. Source centers where intelligent workers can assemble against modest rent fees and work on their work as a team or as a part of the pioneers to whom governments have to look more closely, and especially now in this situation. I'd like to remind you here, as opposed to the minister of finance, that the government's opposition came together with the adjustment of the last budget for the rise in innovation and development. The proposals were set up, so much to the same amount that is now suggested in this budget. This is interesting in view of the fact that the government has called for the government's opposition to work together in this difficult situation. We in the central category have supported all the proposals of the government because it keeps a record of all these matters in order to minimize the damage we face. However, the government has issued all proposals for the government, including the proposal for innovation, which is now under way. It's as if it doesn't matter who offers the suggestions. Unfortunately, it looks that way, and there's something the public doesn't want to see here when we're dealing with such a difficult problem. I encourage the government to cooperate with what they wish for the government to show, that it will show it in action, and here will be some practical suggestions we have made. Here's some suggestions we made after the 1st. the first pack of action was cut down, but we're in here now. Of course, I welcome them, but this is a peculiar procedure on the part of those who call for cooperation and cooperation. The common society has declared disappointments with this government proposal, and this is quite interesting. In the German Union, they say, "It's the same thing. " that there is no need to ensure safety of the groups that have fallen between ships and docks in former government measures and that now governments must turn their support to a greater extent to people as much as their companies. ASI highlights this and does not forget that there are taxpayers who are sponsoring companies, regardless of whether they maintain jobs, follow collective agreements, or give up their contributions to society. It should be noted that in the United States, because of the virus epidemic to companies, companies do not give up employees. Before approaching travel, I want to mention that some groups are falling between ships and docks in these government procedures. There I would like to mention a special cab driver because there is a union that has not been allowed to enjoy the resources available here. Cabby drivers depend on so - called cab drivers, and as a result, the operation of these measures is in order to allow them to have access to the government's resources. Of course, depositing the work permit is very unfortunate. Then the person is really giving it away and that others can use it. There are problems that must be addressed so that this group can be met, which is numbering six hundred,700 families. There's a group that needs special attention, and I encourage the government to do that. In the case of tourism, we know that the contribution of tourism to the collection of currency is significant. She's been our biggest export project, and there's also been a lot of work there. So our prospects in this article have a major impact on our future economic leaders, and we now have complete uncertainty as to when the article will recover. During the following months, she will have to have specific adjustments in the form of restrictions on the arrival of tourists to the country when they begin to be seen. The budget of 2020-2024 shows that there is a planned change in the travel paid by tourists at the time of the programme. Last financial bill presented a new tax system in the form of a pay on tourists. It is quite clear that their plans are by no means possible. Men may not have realized this, and then I look especially to the government, in the beginning, how devastating this virus epidemic is for tourism. When all of this began, they hoped that it would be short, perhaps four to five weeks, but the situation has deteriorated from day to day. We live in complete uncertainty about the rest. The media supports all these proposals of the government, and we do not give up in that regard. We have offered suggestions, offer help, and so forth. It has not been listened, e.g. proposals presented by the person listed here have been offered to the budget of stress payment for health care professionals. They were reserved for a financial committee, and there was no interest among the members of the committee in this matter. At the administrative point, we planned to move specific adjustments to the budget for special health care care checks. The greater part, the government, the forward party, the Independence Party, and the left greens, made this suggestion, and now it's on board. I'm happy, of course, that we're here to pay stress payments to health care professionals. I certainly deserve it, and I've been speaking to it from the beginning. But this shows the government's work that calls for solidarity. I call for this to be changed by the government, to listen to our proposals. We are in it together, trying to find the best solutions to this problem. The government's economic actions must take into account that the decline will be more than the most pessimistic projections are expected. It must be kept in mind under what circumstances we are preparing for it. It hasn't done enough for the government, in my opinion. She seems to be afraid to face the fact that these downloads are deeper than expected in pessimists. The government makes small doses of its actions to deal with the current situation. It is not the correct methodology, as we have considered in the Middle Ages, that it takes perspective and boldness to deal with the worst economic situation for 100 years. It is unrealistic to assume that things will work out later in the summer or in the fall. This must be taken into account, and it must be said at the present time that drastic and unprecedented action must be taken in unprecedented situations. We in the Middle East have been able to talk about the need to temporarily cancel the insurance fee, especially for those enterprises that are the worst out of this, at least At the end of the year, it is necessary to cancel the insurance bill. You need to expand the part-change process and simply establish firm support to companies as presented in Denmark. All of this is headed for it because we realize that the goal is to protect the work and to keep the unemployment from increasing. Is it really high, which is a big concern? Each job is important and to work hard to prevent the laid-offs of staff. All means must be searched. Then I'll come up with a little more details on how important it is to be quick to offer strong suggestions. Each day is truly precious in these materials, and I am referring to an adjustment proposed by the government in the first few operations. Three weeks have been lost by the government since we gave these suggestions to help her move the same suggestions now because she could not consider supporting the government's proposals. This shows that the government's situation is farsighted, more aware of the problem than the government. In the case of tourism companies, the biggest is when the companies are seen in general and with great disappointments that they have not been able to meet their needs in the presentations announced yesterday. Only a small number of tourism companies can use their credit money and specific measures for travel services are needed. I think it's perfectly clear. Not all companies need this action. The tourism companies are in position that about 80% of them will have a 100% income drop in the next few months, i.e. has no entrance. The cost, pay, and other costs remain. It's a huge shock. In this case, tourism has repeated emphasis. Sadly, this important article, the largest export work we have, has serious uncertainty about how long the situation was spent. The whole year just looks bad. I see, Mr. President, that my time is almost over and I need to get more into this discussion afterwards, but I would like to finally say that in the media, we support these suggestions. [[The president calls.]] However, we feel that it took longer to walk. I've been on it, and I'll get in more afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u79	President. I'm going to sit down for a discussion on the subject that's on the schedule right now, i.e. The funds, to go around a little bit in the field of action that the government presented, even what has already been done, and to talk about having to do more. Many of these matters are discussed later today. The government has since the beginning of this situation, which we are dealing with, we have in mind, and have announced how it will be, how it will be, and how the government's reaction will be. We have said that we are not afraid to do what is necessary to get us through this. It is obvious that changes take almost a week from day to day. Everything we said when we were standing here discussing measures necessary at the beginning of this situation is out - of - date. So we can look up the coming news and read the annual festivals of members of the Parliament how brief we were all. Second, we've said this isn't going to be the only big magic solution, not the package that says that right now we're going to solve all these problems, especially from what I mentioned earlier. Third, we have always said that this will be a custom and specific procedure, although it may well be considered for some of them to do so. Custom and specific measures that are best used are needed, making it possible for every dollar that leaves either a wealth or a government fund to take full advantage of it. That is why we have always said to every step we have taken that this is not the solution to a big old age and an article. These are the steps to take now, more will come, we have always said. And more has come and more will come. I'd like to step in on what I've been sorry for in my discussion of government action, both yesterday's package and as early as the government has taken. We've only heard of today's debate with some in the government position and in other parts of the community, even from the labor movement, that the government's actions are not about people. I'm going to allow myself to protest this strongly. Here, things are completely turned to the head if there's any wording appropriate at any time. Of the money being paid these days from the government funds, it is likely that billions of dollars are being paid by people who live in companies. The government has agreed to pay up to 75% of the staff's salary. Aren't they people to pay? The government has always kept in mind by its actions to protect and preserve employment, protect jobs, so that most people get caught losing their jobs. Of course, someone will lose his job, and as I mentioned at the outset, we will have to rethink all our actions as wind goes on, but this has been what we've had primarily in mind. Yesterday's panels are being introduced and strengthened by the companies who have been closed, hundreds of thousands of dollars for each employee, a peak of 2.4 million. Their employees are people, aren't they? There are some 600 million in the leisure activities of children. Children are people, aren't they? 200 million go to Children's House, aid line of the Red Cross, a group of counselors. Are not the clients of all these parties people? There's a special grip on the monotonous. Those with more than 40% loss of income may borrow up to 6 billion. K. ... withmaximityresponsibility. Aren't lonely people, Mr. President? One hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars. goes on to improve access to disabled people and repair buildings. Aren't people disabled? 500 million. K. join the Food Fund to promote domestic food production. Who partakes of these foods? It's people, isn't it? Who makes the food? It's people, isn't it? An artist's salary is increased by a quarter of a billion. The number of artists gets paid. Aren't artists people? One billion will be provided for healthcare professionals who have progressed to the fight against the virus. Healthcare professionals are people, aren't they? 2.2 billion k. There is a special effort to increase the number of jobs for students, 800 million this summer. Aren't students people? In this regard, it should be noted that the government's focus on the problems that students obviously face during the summer has primarily been creating jobs for students, creating ways for students to pursue summer education, and thus continuing their course of study. I could continue to mention the groups that will enjoy the activities we are considering today. All talk that these actions are not about people is wrong. Some of the measures presented by the government, others we are considering now, but they are primarily about people. All people, these same people, will see if they think about and consider these actions and assess them fairly. We are nothing but people, we who build this community, whether we are in this chamber, we in society everything, we in smaller communities like companies, we are all people together who are getting through this state and that people are the government's minds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u80	A respectable president. I've been talking about how I feel like the government's priorities were on the companies first, but not on people. I've been trying to explain that this isn't either/or, of course, people can be supported through a business as has been entered, but it's through a business. We're in and we need to be involved, and other countries have had to put in place some major control efforts to see if the companies are handling the money they receive through a variety of government funding. It would be much less if the money went first. This is not about supporting either business or through people, and there are definitely actions in this package that go directly to people and not first to companies. I would like the speech not to be in the way that what has been said here about not thinking about people, as is meant. Here is a suggestion that we begin by preventing the gaps mentioned in the discussion. We've all been e - mailed by various sources who explain their circumstances, the gaps they've been into as part - time, and things like that just don't worry about. This suggests that we are not thinking about people first. Hv. A senator spoke of a work contract being defended. There are contracts to be protected, not people, since not everyone is in that kind of relationship, with employment contracts. It's a specific action, not a general action, and that's what I'm trying to talk about. [[The president calls.]] If we're going to talk about a general operation, we have to talk about everyone who doesn't make windows, and we're thinking about people first.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u81	President. I have to admit, I don't understand everything. A senator crossed. He says that contracts are being protected, not people. What does what? A senator that deals with contracts are? Any independent phenomenon? A contract is a job. They're defending jobs, Mr. President, as I also said in my speech. Who's jobs? People's work. It's spending a lot of money to keep more people from losing their jobs, losing their contract. Is it not for people, chief? President? Of course. I allow myself to doubt that it would matter to the people who get paid mostly for the part-back route -- that's some peak, 90%, if I remember correctly, what. A senator may remember it better than I am, and such a roof - especially so important that the money is by the company before they go into the bank account regularly. That's what the money did. They certainly went to the companies to make use of the pay system of every company in the country. Or were we going to set up a direct pay system from a government fund into people's salary accounts? I feel so bad about it. That's what I'm talking about. Hv. A senator said, if I struck right after, that there were not mainly people being taken care of. Yes, in the first action the government took was primarily thinking about people, the pay in the district, the part-change process. They were thinking about people. Then I questioned how we are thinking about people, how these actions are all about people. [[The president calls.]] If that's what it takes. The senator is that we think of every citizen of this country. And if he says that not all action is required, then we are not thinking of people, we have a problem. A senator with some magic solutions to my sleeve that I look forward to hearing? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u82	The president reminds me of a speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u83	I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u84	A respectable president. I don't know why. A senator has been listening to the last few years that, for example, me and Piratar have been talking about, like... unrecognised ground-up. My exit point and the reason why I've been using the words I've been using is because people have fallen into gaps between different measures taken. It's the precautions that went up immediately when the first package was submitted that it leaves windows. It takes little effort to fill them, yet it was not done. It was just focused on that this way works here, and this one here, these are good slides that people can go in and run very comfortable, but some don't fit in for some reason, are too short or too tall, too wide, too narrow, or whatever it is. That's what makes me say that people aren't being taken care of. You can choose specific actions for a lot of people, and if you leave behind someone, sensitive groups will be forgotten. [[Up front.]] As I mentioned earlier, members of the Parliament have received countless e - mails from various sources that describe their circumstances, they do not find in the first package or now where they fall. I've been pointing that out. Let's start by stopping everyone from falling down the floor in a basement somewhere. Then, the specific solutions can come on top of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u85	President. So far, I don't quite understand why. A senator, at least I use all my Icelandic skills. If people hit a gap, everyone was not being protected, and people are not being taken care of. We arrived at a pro-ressive tax system where we increased the lowest tax level. Were we not thinking about them because we were just thinking about some of the community because we weren't thinking about the highest paying citizens of this country? So we were thinking about people, weren't we? We can do a nice little conversation sometime about a little groundbreaking move, whether it's the best way right now when we're looking at 300 billion packs in some form, which will be a drop of state funds, that a part of it goes to me and a part of it goes to me. A senator and others on high wages. I've found a lot of interesting things to do with that idea, and I'm willing to discuss it in a different field than I don't think it applies here and now, as I think it is. A senator may not have been suggesting that. He'll correct me if I'm wrong about that. You can't say that because the government's actions fail to control every Iceland, that some fall into gaps, they don't revolve around people. It's a backslide at the highest level. It is disappointing to see that such a trend and old - fashioned work is being carried on at this time. If I hit my lawn as a farmer with my lawn mower, I can't find everywhere, but I have to do it with a smaller lawn mower, or even a worm, and a gratation, as was done in a rural area where I was. So I'm not hitting the lawn? Yes, of course. I may have left something behind, and then I'll take special care of it. That's what I came into especially, we've watched the most specific measures. We've always said that this is not enough, yes, more is needed. And you're right next door. A senator's particular concern is, of course, that if he allows himself to assume that he is not done in all the operations, he does not change his mind about people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u86	A respectable president. This is an interesting exchange of words here. I have to agree with my colleague, Kolbeinn Francis Óttarsson Proppér, in a speech in the beginning that had a fine grasp of the grand task involved. We must always remember that procedures - whether local or any name we give them - do not necessarily involve everyone in the community. There are always some who fall into some gaps. It's been like that, and it's been trying to reach. Here, we've talked a little bit about the part-change process. She benefited from a particular group and became far more extensive than expected. It is now being revised to see if its extension is the right way or perhaps. some other application. I've said we've taken the trident as a role model. Although I'm not comparing the government or the administrative part to the trident, we look at its methods and have included giving all things a certain amount of time to see which decisions have been good. We notice just about four weeks of action that has already been taken to say and whether they are, as I said before, to the point where we can use them better or if we want to treat someone else. It has been said that the measures do not reach the big companies. The first reached them. The large companies are in part using the part-change process, the bridge loans, etc. These actions are directed to non-employers. It focuses on the monarchy, on the small companies, on the hairdressers, on people with massages, on physical therapy, and on dentists, those in close proximity to people who were ordered to shut them down. They did not shut down because of their own management options but because of their disease control laws, and this is where they are being met. As a result, these actions must be considered first and last to be meeting people because people and businesses will be delayed. I think it's a good reason to skim a little. There's a lot of stuff in here that we can be happy about. I look forward to seeing the products that come from it, including ... inthenew-born connection. I think it's one of the things that makes it grow and makes many intelligent people great strength, so it was carefully added to this fund, both last and present. A financial committee did so last time. I think that's one of the most important things. The above - mentioned school issues are also one of the factors that make a huge difference. Summer studies, both in high school and at university, are among the things that are important. There have been provisions for this study of funds. As we know, there has been no time for training now, but they are trying to cooperate with it so that people can both graduate and continue in their studies instead of perhaps solely on unemployment benefits. You should be able to pursue an education along the way. A financial committee placed funds in the New World Fund of students in the past, and now it is being offered as an additional piece of money that I believe will be of great importance to the student. Then there will be stress payments for the people in front of the hospital services as well as for health care outside hospitals, which I think we're all happy with. There is a major increase in health care services and on projects called Mental Health in the home, a one - year project in which mental - health and mental - well - being are being performed. Granted, we may not be able to cope with problems as we still are and must continue to deal with them. We can't see the end of it and how many will depend on it. It is to be added to mental - health professionals, psychologists, and social workers, and an increase is expected to occur around 20 new levels in connection with this effort. The development centre of the Icelandic Health Center is to lead to this trend in which it is one of the most important developments in the United States. conducted to oversee the growth of mental status, prevention, and support for children and young people in school. Family matters have been very much considered. Here we have 1 billion in the group of lawsuits that I think are also among those involved. There's about 50,000 bucks. has a child, 600 million here supported by a low - income agency to ensure the equal opportunity of children to sports and leisure activities. All of this is important as well as family violence and action directed against child abuse and provide services for them. When it comes to the work and the enormous unemployment we have seen, employment insurance fund is expected to get extra funds. They're supposed to be doing a little effort in academic and professional matters that I think are very important. We don't know exactly where the long-term lack of work will be, what lasts longer than 8How12 months, something like that. This becomes clearer in summer. At least. suggest that this be added and that it will be cooperated with the Department of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education and the Labour Services Agency. We have an accurate knowledge of this class since the collapse of the past; this is one of the things I think we have learned well and can apply ourselves. Here, too, funds to promote social resources and provide support for vulnerable groups, such as older citizens, socially isolated groups, and disability, highlighting support for the families of disabled children and strengthening their national part of the country. A respectable president. I'm not on a budget anymore, but I just wanted to bring in this case because I think every action you've put into place that was meant to mean a lot to me. Everything tickles in. Whether it is enough or not and how to act on it is a matter of controversy. First and last, it's a government fund that's going to suffer a huge drop in income, but the communities are faced with a small drop in income as well. Together we must somehow try to go through this, and I'm sure we'll review the communication between the state and the community. Here, a large amount of money is laid up in the municipal package, although the big money goes into a certain rural society. Here, though, it is indeed a deposit of funds that make every community comfortable and in charge of a certain service. I'm thinking of leaving my case to an honorable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u87	A respectable president. Hv. A senator says that people and businesses will be late separated, but businesses are human work. Companies are where people come together for a purpose and take advantage of a specific opportunity. It's very easy to separate people and businesses, e.g. paying companies much different taxes than people, at expense, not at expenses like people. Despite the disappearance of businesses, the people are still there, and even the opportunity and purpose are still there. We don't put people in drawers, but we put business in drawers. It's easy to separate people and businesses. If we support companies to maintain employment contracts, etc. is certainly the result of doing good, but the purpose is to support and protect the companies, not necessarily the people, the purpose, or the opportunity. The same exact funding could go to people through various assignments or opportunities in exactly the same way. If we could push a good big time coat where money is not paid or that's why during such a situation, we would need to think completely different, and perhaps in a much simpler way about how to maintain our community at such times without making a special contribution to a business or taking any false step, we wouldn't have to worry about keeping our money under control, whether there was a drawer thing going on or a tax system, etc. That's what we get into trouble and we've got into trouble before the business route has gone rather than just going through people. [[The president calls.]] It's certainly not either, or I've been trying to tell you that there's gaps in these actions, they've been warned from the start, and we need to watch them right away. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u88	The President still reminds us of the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. We just don't agree on approach, I think it's the content of what was said to another senator before and now. I am, for example. not in favor of citizens who are determined to give money to people instead of continuing businesses and activities driven by people who have the opportunity to maintain a recruitment relationship. We also have quite what is called innovation, and we are helping to create new jobs. In the ground it is that if business disappears and people stay behind, like what. A senator put it, as it were, in a way that all can attend. It's not necessarily bound to some particular authority. As I say, I disagree with the approach, but I agree with the senator that there is nothing either or in it. I don't agree that it's probably better to give the money directly to the people, not to support corporate recruitment relationships, but to give it directly to them. I allow myself to agree that there will truly be some who will fall between the operations. It's not the first time, so it won't be the last time. Unfortunately, all our systems will probably always include people who do not fit into the frames we try to set. At the same time, we do our best and continue trying to find windows and stop them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u90	Mr. President. I'll try to keep track of the speech lesson. I don't agree with this, I think there's a system in which no one goes into gaps, e.g. a system where we had a defined minimum wage, defined as a stipulation criterion, but not a different stipulation criteria depending on whether you look at the TR, the Ministry of Social Affairs, or anywhere else. It is the foundation we lack and are relatively easy to make, but for some reason we have not. If we had that foundation defined, that floor defined, we knew at least where all the windows would end. We don't have that knowledge right now. In fact, we know how deep people can sink, they are very deep, way too deep, because we have not defined minimum goals and minimal progress properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u91	Mr. President. I was so disappointed that home should not be mentioned specifically, that there was no special pack of homes in this government's tool package. I'm not surprised, but it's interesting how you're doing. A senator tries to defend it and has also done so earlier today. By January, there was a total of 9% unemployment in the city of Rhines, and now there is a fourth working man out of work. This 9% has probably not had many employment opportunities in those days and has fallen on the proud unemployment benefits of April 1. That's 289,000 bucks. per month. Hv. A senator was opposed to what. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson earlier today, where she criticized the United States' desire to raise her unemployment rates and asked if it was not better to increase the number of jobs than people on unemployment, as she said the senator would like to do. I want to ask you why. A senator's comments on this subject are truly interesting. Counts 'em out. A senator in this situation, when governments are certainly not making jobs for all the unemployed people, that of raising unemployment rates to 314,000 dollars. in a month when minimum income insurance is 335,000, is there to encourage people in this condition to go to unemployment rates? What kind of presentation is this at the councilman's left active? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u92	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I object that this is not a home issue, although the word "home" does not appear in the pack of measures. This does not mean that we are dealing with activities that will benefit people who live in just a home. I think it's a hair hazard, and I have to say, I'm surprised too. Councilmen speaking in the way they do, acting as if their homes were not involved, and they did not care that these are doing what is being done. There may be one or two things the Company wants to do that defines a home and it would be nice to know. It has been discussed that there are measures due to housing, which also belong to biographies and other things being done, and these are expected to be part of a home. That's something we're going to deal with very soon. Of my unemployment, I certainly understood why. paritaprevir Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson, so he would rather put students on unemployment benefits than create jobs, including summer jobs. Since he has also written about the subject, I have not otherwise understood him. I just think making jobs should be a priority. I can totally say that this is a very low compensation. We all agree on that, and we've been doing so for a long time. I really hope that the injections they're giving to the Southnes will cause us to have as few people as possible. Perhaps more will come, perhaps more and more jobs will be made. Remember, though the benefits are very low, it is also the local community to seize people who are in trouble, not just the State. I feel that it has been spoken as if the government alone should save all that needs to be saved, not the locals. [[The president calls.]] True, they take on a blow like the State, but they certainly do not take similar action. I think it's strange to plan to keep them from participating in this because they have to contribute.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u93	Still, the president stresses the point. Senators are worth deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u94	Mr. President. There's still trouble. I'm very disappointed by a senator. Everyone here is working with the government in an effort to increase the number of employment tools needed to combat unemployment. It is clear, however, that some will not get jobs, and there will be some who will have to make a lot of money under the minimum wage unless we raise the unemployment rates as proposed by the United States. We're talking about people who can't enjoy the resources that the government puts on the table. It so happens, Mr. President, that our country's homes have a fixed cost as well as a business. They're to be met in my opinion. As we as officers, we feel that we should meet the homes that have suffered the greatest loss of income and that we find ways to do so as we try to create more jobs, both for men and for women. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u95	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I agree that we have worked together well at the council to try to find solutions together. That's one of the things we have to do, and I also noted earlier that there will be some who don't get a job and fall somewhere in everything we're doing. We need to respond. Regarding employment opportunities and other matters that a senator went through with the homes, what we have to do is something that we further place in the forward package, as I also pointed out. We know this about the biographer agreement. There are no official suggestions on what to do exactly as to what to do. Companys have been laid on meeting companies for real estate costs. Since this has not been discussed with the inhabitants, it is one of the things we need to consider, whether the government should pay it, or whether the rural community will have to go through with it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That is just one thing we can agree with or disagree about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u96	The President still recommends that we respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u97	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator wanted to enter only the support loans at the moment. A senator. I mentioned in my speech earlier that it seems that last night's economic events were presented on the side of the government and the government classes are mainly useful small companies. Hv. In his talk earlier, a senator said that the larger companies could take advantage of the part - improvement process, and then she mentioned the loans specifically. It is proper to say that the Council penitentiary has not been signed with financial companies for the loans so that they are not in the process and not sure how this project will work. I've heard an appeal because the banks aren't very excited about this deal, but they're going to be there. The support loan may be the major part of this operation. This is a positive and important action, I agree absolutely, but next only to companies that have about Fifteen percent of the economy business is looked around. The remaining 85% are the ones who can't take advantage of this strategy. It is clear that these support loans have to include more companies, and that's why I wanted to ask about the senator's opinion of it. Hv. A senator mentioned that in the dough there is another pack of measures, and I ask: Is it possible to take this step more early and more than just to wait for some press conference to introduce new and new resources? Whatever the case, I'd like to hear the senator's opinion of whether the sponsor loans don't have to reach more companies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u98	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. It is true that in this operation there is not a huge audience in percent numbers, but as I say we were in the previous operation trying to meet bigger companies. We'll see how it goes, and that's one of the important things, that things get to work. If it doesn't work, we may need to interrupt again. Fifteen percent of companies are huge, under which there are an enormous number of people who earn their livelihood from those companies. They're scattered all over the country, and I think it's very important that these companies are enabled to move forward, whether it's lonely or ten people or whatever they are now. I agree, though, that we have to try to speed this up with the loans so that we can see if they work for as many people as we suggested they could. In terms of dilation of these measures, the committee will have to take it by themselves, see what is being said about dilation and how much it would cost. Are we talking about adding money to the operation, or are we just talking about expanding it? Then I don't think there'd be much left. On the basis of my suggestion, I imagine that the senator would suggest that a large amount of money be added. I do not have an overview of how much we would have to add if we were to expand this and reach X of many enterprises, which were within a measure but would still be above what is under. Perhaps the senator has some information about this. That's something the committee'll take care of. This has been criticized, and it is likely to be told by members.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u99	Mr. President. Thank you. The elder's answer is clear. A senator said that this is something that the committee needs to consider carefully. Then I'm hoping we'll get to call the experts to a story and a plan on the Committee. The committee has been stepped on as far as this is concerned recently, as I have presented it in speech and literature. Hv. A senator said that he might be able to expand these options, and I'd like to ask him why. Senator on the partial improvement process. She believes that it should even be extended to the point that it will also be submitted to an appointment. It's not long before the month's out, it's next week, and there's things to be left because if it goes, it's gonna cost an employee who's on the part-way, and that's gonna cost the notice of the full pay to three months. [[The president calls.]] It's expensive for companies. What does it look like? The senator's decision as to which part-importation should also be submitted at the deadline?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u100	Mr. President. In my speech, I said that the partial reformation process obviously did quite well for much, and it was of enormous importance. It was one subject of controversy, as we know it, and went to the press, whether it could be used for reporting. The result and interpretation of the employment agency were not. I know that it is now being examined by the Department of Social Affairs, which is wondering if it is the best way to help the companies with their notice or not. All of us are aware that large tourism companies, which, as it were, see very sad and even non-traveling, and even small simply this year, have to resign people soon as possible. A senator rightly says. I've come to realize there's something going on with that part before the month. I hope it will work. [[The president calls.]] As I say, I understand that it has to happen because there's no point in having people on part-time if there's no entrance, because there's neither 25 percent worth of pay. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't know if this is the right way, but at least... is being examined.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u101	The president makes it clear that he considers the determination of a certain senator's will regarding the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u102	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a bill for financial support at the spring council of 2020. This bill has a relationship with two other bills that will probably be after 1st. for economic and business support, on the one hand, to a smaller organisation due to a pandemic crown virus and further measures to cope with economic impacts following a pandemic. This is another amount of money in no time at all. Usually, we will provide funding to deal with temporary, unexpected, and inevitable expenses and will have been used in a financial system, such as transfers, seminars, and general reserves designed to meet all the major abnormalities of the current budget. However, this is not some routine or measures that can be obtained with standard equipment. However, it is very important that we here call for authority to deal with situations that are inevitable. It is as important in the context that we deal with this situation in equal steps, and I have specifically encouraged that the steps will be more than fewer, more dignified presidents. I think it's very sensible because if there's something that most people would have if not all the analysts agree on, where a person carrying down, either here or abroad, it's uncertain. While protecting our health system and making sure that it can deal with the situation, as seems to be working, we are dealing with complete uncertainty. At the same time, there is a high economic crisis caused by both a high level of economic decline here and then directly by measures to control the situation. It becomes more reality as the wind goes on, but uncertainty remains high in the economic situation and, indeed, the virus is still high. However, this is also dependent on the time it takes; there is uncertainty about how long it will take to get things started and to get things arranged. We would like to say that on that subject, we are all public defences, and I think, more dignified president, we should be concerned about the government matters the same way. As soon as we're all public security, we're all the state funds. We must not forget when dealing with this position which role of the State Fund is equal, i.e. to live up to a public service that is so important and to play a role in keeping economic balance. As you look to it, it is important that the decisions we make each time to cope with the situation will protect the economy as much as possible. There are two basics in this circuit. There are companies on the one hand, and this is home on the other. We can't talk about it without having it fully arranged. It is a double cycle, as we know, the labor force, the production tools that make up value, the labour pay is then used to buy goods and services, and thus the value is measured, and this is so important in this situation. These are all more and less countries to defend, where homes and businesses can be saved through this situation. The criticism that has been raised that there is not enough is worth considering in this regard so that when we say that enough is not enough, we need to put it in context. Indeed, I think that all of us, who are in the same boat dealing with this, would like to do enough, would like to make sure that everyone, whether they are the companies, the homes, or the people, or what are the concepts in that subject. At the same time, we have to be careful about the future insurmountability of state funds and sustainability. This is some balance art that we need to consider. The analyses that I have learned, a respectable president, emphasize that as soon as we try to protect and protect and provide resistance into the future, the economy will be ready when we make a full trip. Of course, there is no other real solution than when we take off limits and start traveling and meeting, using those services as companies and people in any form. We must also consider this in the context of the actions of other members of the economy. We have two basics that are home and company, but we also have financial companies that make up the only support in the economic cycle and we have the public, and our role is vast in this situation, and then we do business with foreign countries. It's five pillars in the circuit or economic modules, we can call them. When we talk about the scope of action and say that enough is not enough, we always ask ourselves, " What is the scope of that operation? ' Is that some percentage of the total worth of the prize? Do we look to current financial laws? Let's not forget that we're here to keep a lamp with the current budget. We've got 1,000 billion people working this year. It works in such a way that we are slacking off on government funds, and the government is thus working positive and in the most automatic way, which is always healthy in all economic systems, no matter what situation exists. It's important too. With regard to the action pack we have here, you have seen to form in the report that OECD has published the comparison between national groups that the first response was to protect the survival of households and companies. They could not see anything out of the mist when it struck one nation after another, different in time. In most places the next steps have been taken for reasons other than the standard form, if pay is accepted, and if you earn a job salary, you will earn a job salary to cover your normal household expenses. That's the package. This number of direct expenses is 13.2 billion, which largely contributes to social activity. We're putting more in innovation. So did we in our last pack. It's a front and it's very important. I agree with all those who have made it a success today for a good 1st. It goes 2,3 billion in innovation, and it plays with the issues of the economic and business committee that are both involved in lifting the roof and increasing the payoff rate. Then there are the committees on whether it is reasonable and consistent with policy and planning, and the situation will increase it even further. So to improve the total loss of income that has been lost, to make a difficult decision to simply shut down and lose all their income because of that. 2.5 billion go for it. Hv. Of course, the budget will cover the budget, and then we'll have the opportunity to review the evidence behind all these bills and the redundant outputs and the agencies that have drawn up these bills. But that's how it works. It's totally in harmony with what other nations are doing. When I talk about the magnitude, I can draw in here a more dignified president to the investment package that came with the first actuated package is one-third of the public investments current budgets this year. There's a lot of money and just barely heard to see a procedure like that, and I'd say it's a big deal, if we're talking about size. It is important that we put these things in context. But now we'll be working on this pack of measures and the two other primes we'll discuss later today and go to the left. The Economic and Business Committee. Uncertainty is still great, and at best, they can be found. Global scenarios, AGS was designed to form a scene the other day, and nationally also, that the Western economy will be able to withstand, in negative forms, by a shrinking of GDP of 75.910%. The predictions we were looking at just months ago are highly swinging. So it's not just a lot of contraction, it's sudden. The third pack of action that I expect to be, and of course, will be funded in the fall when we have to take any action to the labour market, can advise more specific measures, in case we see elsewhere, e.g. correspondent in the North. They will be more familiar, a more dignified, more dignified president, to form on special sectors and on the job status that has been talked about today, the travel service. What I miss in this discussion and call for is a classification of what we can call a core service in the tourism sector. This is a more complex business than many others because it is made up of so many different companies. Even business companies rely on trades and services 80% on tourists. Most important, any action we take is focused on protection and resistance, being a real reaction to the circumstances we are in and making the most of the way in which we are in. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Let us be on guard against all changes in our system and focus on dealing with the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u103	The President reminds us of his words here at a time point.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u104	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his review of the money we're dealing with right now. All I wanted to ask was what. A senator into the money the government has now formally reported, at press conferences and interviews yesterday and today, to deliver the media in Iceland. The figure is 350 million, but there are no signs in this financial bill. We approved 400 million. K. to the press that was supposed to follow the highest bill. A minister of education now being treated for what? A top-of-the-art Board of Education. I heard no more of a secretary of finance than that it was the money that was welcome when the budget was approved. [[The president calls.]] So I want to ask you why. Senator: By then, the bill has stopped. Secretary of Education on press support? [[The president calls.]] Well, we don't use the same ones twice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u105	The president still reminds us of a time limit, but he was reluctant to put the clock in the speaker chair within a minute, which will now be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u106	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. Hv. A senator is aware, I think it's forgotten to ask for this form of money in a financial bill. If I read a text on page 6. 7 It speaks of arrangements in terms of government funds that are subject to special business support for the special media, so it is assumed but is not a financial request. It is up to the committee and the Senate to cope. You're right. A senator says, that's 400 million. K. on valid budgets which are linked to the bill of the General Education and Education Committee. It is only in our hands at the council now how we face the problems of the media. There is a special situation in the media, since there is more work there, the part - time process is not working to that extent.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u107	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his answer and for his honesty. That is correct, there are more media projects today than were for Covid, both our demand for constant news of a great deal as well as our demand for all kinds of entertainment that the media in Iceland, and probably all over the world, have answered very well. What a fine example to keep track of them! That's exactly why you're wondering why it's like that. That's why. The senator is not in accordance with the highest response. Secretary of finance earlier today. Does it seem that the applicant party will drive the drive hard to add 350 million to the council's treatment, but the Independence Party will possibly fight against it? So, are we in the government position, or are those of us who want to support the media, trying to support the State Team?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u108	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's question. I concluded that the part - time ministry did not work out because there is certainly a call for more entertainment, entertainment, and the vital role of the media in discussing the situation and providing information on the subject. I can say that it's all the government's will to support the media, that's why we have this bill, there may be some disagreement on the process, and I'm not going to do anything about it. I think it's just a clean, smart mistake that happens when you're in a hurry, that this point is in a text rather than a formal petition as necessary in the bill's documentary. It's technical. We'll figure it out at the council. That's all there is to support the private media, and I think we can work something out together. [[The president calls.]] There's a reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u109	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I'd like to agree with that as a dog. A senator said we were all state funds. The common fund of all of us depends on the welfare system and many other important tasks. Hv. A senator also spoke about the patient endurance of a state fund. Clearly, the state's budget is not bottomless, so you need to be careful that these resources are useful to many but also that they will not be abused. I just wanted to say the right thing because of it. A senator came into it. What I wanted, however, was what I wanted to ask. A senator is about the insurance bill, whether he can predict changes, that it may be temporarily canceled. Also, I would like to ask him about the part-change process, if it will be extended, and if it is possible to give companies even steady strength as presented in Denmark. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u110	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's questions. This is not a small question. Of course, we have always been trying to reduce taxes and fines for a company, and the insurance bill is one of these taxes or tax stocks that are difficult to deal with because they are made up of pay and are an important part of the operation of a large number of companies, especially those who are step-by-step workers. It's been, I know, for an opinion. The share-change route may have been the largest action, and I think it is inevitable to look to some sort of expansion. We are on the next steps to reach the groups that have somehow fallen between ships and docks and are in that position, as we know about students, with the contractors of various types, etc., who have several jobs. So the answer is yes, we'll keep on considering it. I can't answer that again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u111	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answer is satisfying to learn that these things will be considered. I think it's very important because it looks like the situation is, unfortunately, worse than the worst stage films ever expected. Of course, we hope that when all of this is resolved, we will get a relatively fast start, and as we Icelanders, we will have good opportunities for the material things as we look at, for example. to travel services. It is a safe country and a small country, and it is a beautiful nature. It may well fall if many are making new trips after this virus. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the subject of whether he can foresee the survival of the pension fund in this way to minimize the damage we are facing in some way, e.g. Whether payments in pension fund can be temporarily postponed in order to increase the commercial resources of the public. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u112	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. Of course, these are all ideas we need to consider. I may not have thought that all about the pension fund. They live in a very rich and blessed way, we have built up a powerful pension system in that way so that there are a lot of funds. They are also a source of wealth in our economy and in our companies. We can discuss it here that they will inevitably find out in some way. Of course, we return quite a lot of money every month in a pension fund, in the legalised special pension, in the tournament. [[The president calls.]] That's a lot of money, and it's quite possible to look at it in some way in cooperation with the pension fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u113	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the talk and a good team with this development. Surely, then, our attitude in restoration is that there are many things that are good, but there is much more to be done. I feel like six weeks ago I have to do more than a few things and I'm not just saying this out of my heart. I'm also getting messages, and I'm reading national news and envelopes from all over the country, west, tourism companies here, and there's a call for more action. I can state that when it comes to when it is enough, I ask: Is it enough when the government groups drop all proposals of a government position and then plan to agree with the same suggestions? Is there something that was way too much last time enough for today?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u114	V.E.G. President. Thanks for the good questions. Of course, we should find out what must be done, and we should do what must be done, and we have not stopped. With all the suggestions, I just wanted to thank you very much for that question, it was once so that the committees worked together. The legal committee worked this way all the way together. There was a quarter increase in the case, though, because there was a good partnership with the Committee and some practical suggestions from the government opposition to sound action. You can't come back and say, "Then come into the Hall of Congress, and all the suggestions of the government resistance, and we'll agree with all of you. No, we agreed on everything we had. That's the way it was. It is true, however, that we made all the suggestions outside the common recommendations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u115	A respectable president. It says that what may have been the most urgent call for last time was even. to raise money to innovation and it was canceled. But I'd like to be especially happy that it's now. The Norwegians are now adding up to 1.6% of the gross domestic product at a direct scholarship, Danir is increasing it to 1.9% and Germany of all, Catholic than the pope on a powerful government budget, is spitting in 2.7% of the gross domestic product of its own money into companies. See what? A senator assumes that the government will in the next action, if the matter does not change in the council, will be more direct in supporting the companies? We can't help it because when it comes to fighting, we've weakened the Icelandic economy and have developed so much of a job that we don't have to fight back. The key elements for us now, in order to protect jobs, in order to protect the livelihood of people who are most important, are to protect an enterprise. [[The president calls.]] I'm afraid that if the measures don't get bigger than they're currently being offered, it'll be longer and harder for Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u116	V.E.G. President. You're right. A senator says. We didn't have any further access to the innovation than we did to raise a substantial amount of money in Technical Development Fund and Research Fund. But this time, we're raising the roof and the payment rate, and we agree absolutely, and it was painful not to have more ground under our feet by analysis. It wasn't because it wasn't willing. It's just the person who says he's going to get hurt, absolutely. But the will is clearly there, and I rejoice with it. A senator says we're going there. Yes, I think we need to watch for the job, for the business, for the homes, that everyone is ready when we leave and the world goes on a full trip to what we can call a more routine. Let's get together, go to travel, buy a service. Of course, this requires further analysis of the sector, what the situation is, and that we come in a stronger way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u117	A respectable president. Hv. A senator speaks of uncertainty, uncertainty conditions that have been and how difficult it is to create some kind of plan and action, etc. into that uncertainty situation. But our purpose here and the purpose of a government fund like this is to destroy this insecurity, make sure, make security, finance what needs to be done, finance opportunities, maintain rights, and services. There are plenty of projects all over the country, and there are lots of ideas. If uncertainty is so difficult for the government, but it is still bringing these steps that are now being raised into budgets one and two, which are supposed to be supported by analysis, why is the Senate not able to obtain the diagnostics that are behind them? I know the answer - because it doesn't exist - but I'd like to hear the opinion of the chairman of a financial committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u118	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator of this question, and I think it's very good. Uncertainty will always be there, and it's our job to reduce uncertainty. Uncertainty will always come in a number of equally strong ways into our lives, and therefore we have a plan and policy, so that we don't swing with things changing, so that we can keep a curve as the shipman would call it. Today's uncertainty is based on the fact that there are no diagnostics. The traditional economistic models do not trust in these personal analysiss, to tell us what the national product will be, so humans are just drawing up visual images, different scenarios of the evolution of the virus. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's why I think we're doing the right thing by taking it in smaller pieces and steps as we destroy the uncertainty.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u119	The President still reminds us of the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u120	A respectable president. We spend our uncertainty with the issues we are discussing today. In the back of these cases, like a cot. A senator says, is not so much of a staging analysis. We're actually guessing, as we've always been. It is my experience with a job on a financial committee that we never get very clear answers about why it is this amount or this standard or project over anything else. Public financial laws are not adhered to that they should compare the different kinds of imaging. That is why I simply wonder: " When it's an uncertain situation like right now, and we're guessing anyway, why don't we be good enough to spend the uncertainty much more? A little gig against a big gig. [[The president calls.]] After all, as I've said, this is a financial warrant, not a financial warrant.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u121	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator is very specific about the laws on public financial matters and we are doing things right, let's say, based on real evidence and we're putting things in place as a guarantee and making sure that this image, that we're all state funds, succeeds. You're right. A senator tells us that the big grass, the pumping out of money, is in no way at all with that picture. I believe this is where there is a need to expand to form what financial advice has to do with policy and plan. I've watched carefully what the dance board does in Denmark. It's a counselor, they draw up the scene that the government has, and then they draw some basics, like ours. [[The president calls.]] We need it a little more. In that respect, this is a great question, and I think we should look to the future some sort of a machine. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u122	A respectable president. At this 1st. I'd like to access six items from the bill, but I'm going to have a little access to it about yesterday's play in general and the position that's been drawing up in the last few weeks. I don't think there's any overhistory that for quite a number of people, yesterday's presentation on the so - called other government tool package was a tremendous disappointment. Parties in the sectors most affected by the epidemic were proved to be a well-founded hope for a much greater corruption in their environment yesterday than was the case. As a direct result of a two-pack presentation, it is reasonable to assume that there are several details to be considered in a pack of three, there is not much comfort now, four, five days for the payout of the next month's conventions. I'm sure there's a huge uncertainty, and I call it that if it's done, we members of the Parliament will be shown the first stage films that the government has invented. Consider this question: If there is no action, how many tourism companies will survive? All rules unchanged, life would have gone its way apart from the fact that most of them went wrong? It doesn't have to be an published statement, but I think the government needs to set up the scenarios for setting up goals. Now it's got the highest. Industrial and tourism minister repeatedly told in interviews that not everyone will be rescued and it's, of course, just as in life itself, a business is going bankrupt, I'm not going to tell you the day out and into the normal year trip, but very regularly we're getting word that business has gone bankrupt and that's just part of a business operation. But the situation today is so unprecedented that it justifies a completely different approach from the traditional one. I'm calling for an explanation of the films the government has drawn up. Although everyone is doing their best now and there's a lot going on, it's more than a month since the first press conference in the government's first pack, so it's time for us to put the cards on the table, so we know where the government is headed. After the disappointment that many were experiencing yesterday, since yesterday was expected to be the day that uncertainty would be reduced, I think now that the most important thing is the government is to convince both the company, the entire economy, and the home to have a plan, even though it is an acid and cost a lot, some plan of how they're going to get to land. If there is no conviction that professional life will reach a country in this crisis, those who have room to put their own money into their companies will not do so if it is just a matter of hope and hope that governments themselves will know where to solve the situation. This is what I wanted as an introduction to this bill on the budget. There are six points in the bill that I would like to come on specifically and, as a result, ask for a basis that these points will be discussed specifically in a committee between 1 and 2. First, it is the close-up grants to enterprises which have to stop activity from disease prevention. I'd like to celebrate this proposal. It's hard for me to understand on the grounds given to the estimated number of people. It seems to be covered on a total charge. I take the numbers set out for these details in short notice by the numbers displayed in connection with the partial improvement procedure of the government's first action pack, which calculated by the bill that the overall cost of the part-change process would be 758 million plus two hours-hour government workers. It will end somewhere far above 22 billion, as it appears today. This figure is expected to be about 2,000 people who will enjoy this closing tool. It's just fair, and I'm glad it's done, so you're going to be proud of what's done well. Second, I would like to mention a support loan to SMEs. There, it is estimated that some 8,000,610,000 persons meet the criteria set out and see to it that the loans are given to enterprises with less than 500 million in position. So let's just take an example from the tourism service, because it's the sector that burns most in these weeks, and then it's not likely that a traveling service company with 500 million. K. make a price of 250 million; a 50% salary rate is common in tourism. For a company that has a $250 million salary when it's full, pay will be paid when all of its employees are put into the 25% work at 5 million a year. The maximum amount of loan in this case, therefore, will make only one month's salary, one month's salary for the headcount in 25% work. And it will pay all the other expenses at the expense of the companies, whether by house, insurance, or any other business, anything. It is obvious that yesterday's government presentation was very unrealistic, especially with the companies in the upper part of the income market in this direction. Certainly, this smaller business is much more important. It must also be noted on the committee that companies who have really tried and resorted to all means of survival, I might be thinking especially about restaurants in that context. There is a demand for a 40% revenue and this must be guaranteed. The budget for the management of this case is that because of this definition, an enterprise does not land in the position that it has excluded itself from that solution by fighting with all available resources, such as The restaurants with sitting services that have gone to the end of the world, and so on. It would be cursed, so I just put it that way, if companies with such solutions tried to save what will be saved and managed to get into the position that the income drop would only be 35% or 38%, then it will be excluded from the process. It would have been a better option for such a person to sit up and wait for a solution to come. There's room to look at this on the committee, and I'm referring it to the work that lies ahead. The third thing I would like to mention is the company's authority to balance income tax 2019 with the loss of 2020. I'd like to celebrate the implementation on this route. It's a way that's gone even. In Norway. It's simple and fair and it's important to the money distribution of companies within the year. These are particularly viable companies, although I try to avoid the use of that concept these days. These are firms that had the good business last year that they were looking forward to paying income taxes from the profits it made this year. These are the enterprises that enjoy this process, which can be said to be at the front of the order in the order of likely having a chance to be in a good position for a more intense approach to this relief. I want to celebrate and think this is a good way. The fourth thing I'd like to say to the 1st. The health care professionals pay you to pay for Covid-19. I'd like, as with the last item I mentioned, to celebrate this proposal, but at the same time, it reminds me that a rather consistent proposal was dropped here at the Senate Hall with a greater part of a vote three weeks ago. Let's not let it distract us today, it's just a very good thing. But there's one thing on this, so I noticed that on page 18. 12 and on page 24. 30 on the bill are the divided budgets below, and the conversation goes to only 850 million, one at the 750 special hospital service, and then into the public hospital service 100. I call for information as to whether the $150 million missing into this solution are listed elsewhere in this rule. I didn't see it quickly. The number referred to in this regard is billions. There's one thing I'd like to mention here and make sure that the committee will be consulted. It is not certain that nurses and other companies under the supervision of an enterprise in the welfare services that has led up to recent years are part of the group that receives these stress payments. As in the bill, it seems to me that the funds, all these 850 million I find, are turning to the public health system. The missing 150 million may be intended for the third sector, sometimes called. I just want it to be kept in mind, thinking that it is absolutely necessary to make sure that the important workers work, including the staff, are working at the same time. in local nursing homes and related institutions, forward workers who are truly working with and protecting our weakest groups of these weeks and months, the most threatened groups in case of infection are not forgotten for that purpose. The fifth thing I wanted to mention to the 1st. increases food production through innovation and marketing. I'd like to be happy to put 500 million in innovation in food production, but I'd like to give you some doubt that it would be wise to do so with a new fund. Here's the plan to start a new fund called Food Fund, and set down at the same time the agricultural product fund and the AVS research fund in the fishing road. If it is the will to get these 500 million into work on this trend in fishing and agriculture, then there are ways, to get that money into work already. I think they should be used to get them money to work, not to work at them now to start a new fund. Many people seem to have forgotten that it was a bill in the council that was cut down on either side of the New Year's Eve that had the very objective of setting up this Food Fund. Well considered, it was canceled. I don't think that an idea that didn't feel good enough when the Senate had plenty of time to think about it for years, and up through the years, is suddenly quite good in the present Covid situation. I think plan A in this case should be putting these 500 million to increase food production through the available funds. The sixth item that I would like to discuss turns to the followed up budget for 350 million in the media. I just want to flaunt it here because I don't know an example of a minister being entrusted with the same space as put up in this case, so that I can handle it, discuss the following within the so-called Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs. I think the committee must be arranged in such a way that it will be framed into the legislation how it will be maintained, how the media will be treated, and so on. This is much more natural than the suggested information in the bill that will be discussed later this afternoon. Other than that, I hope this bill works well on the Committee and makes the needed changes. But in the end, I just want to challenge the government to inform us that next week, a similar meeting will be held yesterday, with a pack of action of three to consider. Tourism cannot wait one month for the next package to be introduced. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u123	A respectable president. First, I'd like to commend both government and government senators who have been given fine talks. I think it's good to sense the seriousness that we're all worried and that we all want to help. I think it matters, I think it's an important tone coming from the council. I hope he's not one side of the government. I haven't thought so, at least not within committees, although votes at the council, including In connection with the first act of action package, the government has indicated that the government wanted to give us a clear distinction in the history of government and government. This is not how we have wanted to approach the project. We have wanted to see what you can do better. We've been in contact with people in the various sectors in the community to see exactly how the government's actions and suggestions have entered the companies and homes. We strongly support the primary objective of government leadership, the key to securing human living. The key point is to put our people and homes in their arms, but they will not be cut off from their jobs, and to protect the quality of our life, jobs need to be protected. We need to protect our companies. This is a key when we are in a crisis like this, facing a crisis that we have never seen before. We cannot read about this in history books, so we need other measures. That's even. For that is why we are in the rising of the sun, and it sounds to me like the whole region of rule is saying, "Let's hear the words of the Most High." Secretary of finance who died six weeks ago: Let's do more than less. We agree with that approach, but we have to say, as it is, that since the first pack of measures was introduced more than a month ago, we have been disappointed. A lot of good things were done there. We were on the board of directors even. in the first steps properly, with the government in fixing the administrative standards for part-time work. They were mean when they came in here, but we hung on the oars and managed to turn the primary projections into a good song. It was stated two, three weeks ago that the part - time process would have to be changed. I thought, in my simple mind, that the proposal that was introduced yesterday would include the changes they are calling to meet the actual needs of the workplace in order to maintain long term employment for the people so that the security will be more important. It wasn't, and that's why I have to say that even though things are fine in these suggestions, we're going to use ourselves to change. We will support the proposals, but in our view they need to change. We will use them to the economy and to the business committee, to the financial and welfare committees, to bring up questions on the job committee as well as on the General and Education Committee. Without being listened, we will naturally offer our suggestions to change. I talked about a lot of good things. I want to tell you right away about the innovation. It is taking an important step, and I welcome that transition from the government to the introduction of the first pack of measures. We remember that our proposals at the government stand were dropped, but I'm really happy if this is the way for us to get the government to light the light, then it's just fine. I like to see important steps in behalf of innovation and sceptre companies, but it is also clear that in terms of the sceptre companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, changes need to be made. The remuneration rate which is good to be increased from 20% to 25%, is really just important for the big companies in the innovation and the wand sector. We're supposed to take a similar route to the North and the European Union and sort it into three parts, i.e. Small, medium-sized company and big business. You can go out into all these things, but I want to focus on the big movie. There's a lot of good things in there, but I'd rather put my eyes into things that aren't there. That's what worries me like the whole nation, that's a rather vague message about what to do. Food is killed in many places, but it's not taken in the big picture. I point to the part - time ministry, but the exact conditions they are today are not useful to them, and they need to be adjusted. Bridges are also an enormously important operation, but according to my information, the amount of loan has not yet come, and it has been over a month since the mortgage was introduced. To be truthful, the secretary of finance first completed the agreement last week with the Federal Bank and Bank, but the loans of knowledge and of all quantity have not yet begun. Whether these are the measures we need now is a lot to tell us. Therefore, we have been calling for measures for small and medium-sized enterprises particularly, we recommended. last to a temporary reduction of the insurance fee for a small company, up to seven people's companies. It was said, but we still believe that there is a need for temporary action on direct support. I recognize this, and it's only natural that the chairman of the budget board has been on his defense as he was here in a talk earlier on the matter of debting the state funds too much. That's right, we have to realize that now there's a future tax system in the homes and businesses. Less space will be available to us who prefer a simple tax system and lower taxes to go that way. It is a key in this unprecedented gratitude that we can take the edge now so that we must strengthen the job resistance, strengthen the private sector so that we will be there in due time. If we don't, if we don't have major work to support our companies now, such as the tourism, as in other parts of the system and in the community, it means an increase in the cost of the welfare side through unemployment benefits, through psychology services, through a number of ways of caring for the welfare system, and we'll see a decrease in the side of income. If we don't take action to support our companies right now, the income side will be worse for the government funds at hand and at the same time less possible for us to pull down the debt side of the state's budget. From our viewpoint, it is vital that we see the importance of not merely passive action. As we have now, it seems to me that of the 60 billion currently produced, there are approximately 70% in the form of loan or postponement pay and taxes. About 10% undergoes direct actions, interviews such as important measures, concentrations to those enterprises which were closed on the basis of the virus, and then approximately 20% take protective measures for vulnerable groups. 70% of this action of 60 billion seems to me to borrow or postpone action. We must not keep the environment in such a way that once we get out of the park, we've put an additional hookup in our job life, on our private sector. While the private sector has indeed reduced its debt in recent years, it is still more indebted than it is to form in the United States and Britain and is in a similar roleum and other countries. It's been reduced, but it's still a big debt here. Therefore, we need to consider what can be done. I see it on message messages and conversation that among tourism companies, it's a big disappointment. It's like at least a part of the government has somehow given up, that he says: Okay, fine, we're just going to shut down the travel service for 12 months. It's the message I feel that I read about this operation and the tone that's struck on the part of a government minister. We will see what is being discussed here, and there is really no way to throw out a lifeline to the companies. It's bad to see a company that in recent years has been living under 60% of the number of jobs in Iceland, standing for a more awesome innovation, which is now being pushed out of the board by tourism at the last five to ten years, company who have put the funding back in the companies and have not done anything much more than try to keep the economy going and develop them outside what a self-proper life for the national community. There is a bit of cutting off this lifeline for the country by the way the government looks for tourism in this process. That's why I say that I hope that we can change something in this package in the committees, but I also expect the government to come later than next week with more action and more messages that need to be clearer for professional life, including the following week. Tourism. Since the end of March, Norwegians have had operations in the field of well - being, as well as in the field of employment. I would like to discuss Germany because we are now so sensitive to the debt of state funds. We're in an amazing position, and we've said that in the past ten years, groups, whether of the United States, greens, forwards, or independent groups, have come to the advantage, as well as restoration, for paying off the debt of state. Happily, the good is good, and we have come up with a ratio of less than 30%. Why are we doing so if we do not use it in such an unprecedented crisis and crisis? The Germans have a 40% debt ratio, or were, and intend to go up to well over 50%. They are increasing their direct support as a proportion of GDP into companies. To a greater extent, it is not to use banks themselves as an intermediate to support companies. I don't think we're putting the banks ourselves in some ideal position for which companies are going to save and who they should not. I think we have a lot of stuff to go over. I hear some independents are discussing what more to do. I think it would be best if the members of the Independence Party started talking with their own party, to form a representative in the West, at Isafjordur, who runs, including. A good-looking tourist service. He himself says that he feels that it is beyond the government's ability to save the tourist service, that the government does not think it is possible. That is why a minister in the government would have just been able to state exactly what they expect with travel services. I agree with it. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason said earlier. I encourage the government to show us at the council the projections that are working on the tourism and construction of the country. Let us not forget, too, that the construction work had long gone into a certain downturn and had begun to prepare for the down cycle. The egressor had been started long before Covid. The building industry was getting ready for 20% downturn. Co-administration of Covid is likely to have effects on the tourism services to cause structural contractions up to 40%. It is a global business industry, 15,000,17,000 people in the construction industry. At the same time, the shock is temporary closure of tourism, but the tourism will rise again. Since the construction industry, which also involves human efforts, is telling us that the procedures that many are good, and we will support, are essential. We will, however, contribute to improvement, for this is not enough. I encourage the government to bring the first with more action and a clearer message. We're on the same trip. We're on the same side.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u124	Mr. President. It has been a pleasure to observe this discussion, to be balanced, and full of ideas. As a result, I learned that what I put into my mouth was going through a discussion with the highest degree. Prime Minister. I said to the highest. Prime Minister that there is quite some sense here, though some education, much experience. Why does the government not call this ability for cooperation rather than offering suggestions alone? True, they have made many positive changes in committees, but some of them, as is now, are similar to what the government did three weeks ago because they did not come out of it. This, Mr. President, is childish, and we can't afford to be childish now. They need cooperation and consultation. There has been a great solid agreement in this hall to resolve the fundamental issues that the government has brought on. But we have also noted that many of them are too small, too late. And the reaction now, not just ours, but that we hear from everywhere after the government's presentation yesterday, is exactly that, too small, too late. There are many who have said this. There are, for example. privateists running travel services in their own social security number. They don't seem to know what they're doing. Should they accept a lock? Can they? Should they report unemployment right away? There are these opinions upstairs. Another very important service factor is a taxi. Even cab drivers have been advised to deposit their employment permits. The work permit is committed for four months and if it has been committed, anyone may or may obtain it. They can, in effect, lose them permanently by depositing them in. In itself, there is no problem if they went to a stock policy, so it is not easy to cover the small income used by cab drivers, e.g. Making a living at any given time, almost all of them busy is through electronic transactions. So there is no danger of being caught off guard. - I'm glad to see the secretary of finance. I know he's been watching another room. I will then repeat it and direct the words that I started to speak to him as well that here in the hall is quite a sense, a great experience, a great knowledge. It is the government and the country and all its inhabitants to benefit themselves that the government calls this group more to its attention than has been, and right away, in preparing the current issues. I understand that in Denmark a transnational committee is at work making decisions on matters related to this situation, and in Norway it is also a transnational committee. Many of the government's ideas are so good that they have hung up now on the part of the government. So I say again, why not take them now? Why was e.g. This excellent suggestion for special stress payments for nursing staff so greatly deserves to be submitted three weeks ago? And then she'll do it again now, my good health. But why wasn't it approved just three weeks ago? I still think the government, with great respect, is following the situation. She's following things through, including. not to take bold enough big steps, such as. The step in yesterday that was very short, unfortunately. It's not subversive. These are the direct pleas we have received, many members of Congress, from the common people, and many who now have problems that do not seem too far gone and not enough to be done. Then there is one amazing thing that comes up here, which is the establishment of a special food fund. I think that right at this point, we shouldn't be distributing the charges and making one more trick for people to attend. Why on earth? Why don't people put this money in just the money they already have? Then I come to another one that also needs to come into it, that I feel, as the government has been doing now. I understand that we're all standing in the same pond and we're all trying to draw, so it won't go up for the boots. But I find that the government is looking to a time when this situation is over. Why? This is especially true of investments. I have not yet seen a proposal from the government, and I will only be corrected if I am wrong, which is designed to stimulate investment into the future. What am I talking about? Yes, e.g. Growth in agriculture, fish farming, gardening In fact, I think these halls should agree with the unanimousness of the value of agricultural electricity in the same way as in another major industry in the country. If we were to do so and would stimulate investment, such as. Just in this one field, first of all, we're creating a lot of jobs. We are making more of ourselves capable of obtaining our own food. We are taking green steps, we are taking economic steps, we take steps in order to manage the currency we create. It's not winning, it's winning, it's winning, it's five times a prize to take action like this, and I miss them. I'm excited to hear and see some actions from the government where it either forms a fund, puts aside funds to stimulate investment in certain articles, e.g. you have a lot of work to do where you know you need. Food industry needs, constantly needs. We can also clearly export products that would produce more production here in our country, both in our gardening and in our gardening and in our gardening, and in our land fire. We can also produce more of our traditional products. I'm just hoping that some of the 500 million people here today in the real market of traditional agricultural products, e.g. Here in the country of the greatest market. I also hope that one of those ratios in very interesting ideas that have exposed the export potential of Icelandic butter that is now sold, both within the country and abroad, at 10% of the price on which the most expensive butter in the world is sold. We're here to audition for it, a scientific study of the contents, in order to deliver this product next to the best in a multiple-time price to be paid today. Well, we're now losing the wealth of state to a future, but I think so, Mr. President, that if we act wisely now and take, like the highest. Secretary of finance has said, bigger steps than smaller, even though it's only turning into its resistance right now, we're doing this by investing in the future. With the government's financial crisis under way, we are investing in the future. We make it possible for people and businesses to work in a place where they will be good taxpayers again. I must commend myself. The chairman of the legal committee for a word he spoke here today, and I agree with him so wholeheartedly: We are all state funds. This is to be put on a T-shirt and sold for financial gain because it is the least of the business. We're all government funds. That's what I say as an old guardian of the same fund. I love state funds. We are to respect him, and we should respect him, for he is to be paid what is right in his eyes. As a result, we still have to see, perhaps in the near future, the suggestions for holding the money, i.e. in the state business itself. I spoke earlier about how we spread our strength. We are now talking about the need to advance the road of tourism as this situation subsids and enables tourism to lie like a bear in a den and rise up already. The government is likely to have three or four members of a travel body. It's a travel agency, it's an Iceland lab, it's market rooms, investment funds. Why isn't this in one place, so there is a general view? That may be what we all lack now, standing in the same pond, exciting so that it won't get into our boots. We need to get a perspective. That is why we need to deal with it. That's two, three more things. It's a little disintegrated, I admit it, I'm just going over the whole thing. But there are two things I would really like to handle. This fine financial bill contains 15 million to law enforcement. I'm not going to thank you for hiring either four men for three months or three men for four months to work on child welfare and to work against domestic violence, which, taking probe, is not just for a day's work period, so to speak. To be effective in this regard, it would have been necessary to hire 24 - hour workers. Then I still remind you that one day in the police department is six standards. So despite good intentions and 15 million: No, this is not enough. And speaking of the police, Mr. President, she's on our front team, and she's going to be on our front team when the medical situation is relieved because of taking on the economic problems, and then she's going to deal with the tensions, and then she's going to deal with the problems that come first with the police. What is the Kingdom's reward for this class these days? By offering a bargain contracts constantly the same offer over and over again, an offer that is not available to police, but it is thrown back and forth again. Old ratings since 1987 are not discussed. Why? Could that be, Mr. President, because this class doesn't have the right to strike? She can be waved in the face of offers that are insultingly repeated over and over again to the same offer because she does not have the right to strike. I challenge the highest. As the secretary of finance, since he is here, with whom I am pleased, to exert himself for the fact that we are already being made up with police officers, this task force on which we stand. It is the same class that protected this house over ten years ago with her life. And that's how we treat her now. I think so, Mr. President, it's not decent, so I'm just saying it. Although I have killed very many aspects of this, I still hope that the government will take special action to further with the government's opposition. I suggested that to the highest. Prime Minister and should suggest this to the highest level. Secretary of finance now that there will be a telepathy, a transnational fantasy conference, in which people look for the best solution in matters where we haven't found them yet, and there are several, Mr. President. Rather than seeing eyes, it is not weak to seek counsel from others and to listen to the good advice of others, that is, strength. But that requires courage and considerable confidence. If it is really so that the government does not trust to accept good indications and advice from the government's opposition, then the government must be viewed as both, well, not spineless, but not brave enough, and not having enough confidence. In this situation now, it's very bad, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u125	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion that has been conducted today that has provided both positive and reasonable support by the government's procedure. I can see that it is called for a hearing of good ideas and that we have wanted to do so, but in the council, it is the obvious stage for reporting a case and listening to committees of ideas for improvement, as is the custom. I also thank you for many aspects of this kit linked to the budget bill falling on soil during the council. There are some of these factors, social factors, creation, media, and other activities that are very important to remain in a good relationship under the implementation of the Committee. Then I'm saying that the management system needs to provide all the necessary information and further explain the implementation of the individual cases. I reiterate my desire to do so, and I want it to be done at the end of the discussion that, of course, a person with the greatest controversies would want to do something about it. Although not all proposals of the government were accepted for previous reimbursement, I felt that the work at the council had gone well. [[Up front.]] Then I'm referring to the fact that there were, of course, a number of suggestions and ideas from the government resistance into the majority of the inscriptions that came from committees, even though there was a lack of solidarity. So it is that out of the duration which was not the more part for which the votes were voted for in the chamber. That's all I'm going to do, extend the discussion, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u126	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this brief but important input. There are two questions I want to ask him. I think he quite understands that most of us, and I hear it also in some members of the council, not only do we have enough to do in this operation. Is it not clear that in the work that awaits members of the committee within those committees, there will be room for the committees to continue taking matters the way they did and even more to improve the situation and change so that the steps will be more decisive? We see to it that members of a traveling minister make a urgent appeal that these actions are sufficient to not form within the tourism service even though many good things are done. I'd like to say that there's a lot of fancy in this package, but my first question is, Is it not certain that the council has a lot of space in these unprecedented times to bring up the changes that are available to build up and increase the shops in Icelandic commercial life and to keep up your homes? Here I have listened to talks from government and government, and I realize that there are different categories in the government, but the second question is whether we are the highest. Ministers cannot agree that the key interview for Icelandic employment and the Icelandic economy is through the private sector, increasing the number of jobs in the sector, in private and commercial sectors, so that when we need our companies, they are not put on hand to make a lot of debt that they cannot provide support and support us. It's not the highest. Ministers agree with me that we need to encourage and protect our jobs in the companies and in the business?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u127	A respectable president. I can immediately answer that the problem is that jobs in the private sector have been lost. We are expected to bring along problems that reflect the root causes of the problem. That is exactly correct, and there is also reason to worry that companies who have been unemployed but who have been stuck with fixed expenses for a long time may become too debty after this period or even unable to cope with it. Of course, when it comes to tourism, it is not enough simply to say that what we are doing is not meeting everyone's expectations. We have to ask more questions than that, for example, we have to. to ask, "How long will it be normal for the state to take part of the pay of unemployed companies who become incomeless for many months? ' Is it a solution for such a company to keep them in their part - time line and to extend it? I think we need to be a little honest in this approach. Even if it would be appropriate for some companies to receive full government support, receive financial support, to pass through such a period, it is not necessarily the best solution. We may have to fix, for example. the part - time process to this changed reality, since the crisis is increasing, and new resources are coming up. I'm particularly looking forward to supporting a business suddenly faced with the incredible situation that all the income is gone and they are responsible to pay full notice for all the employees. This is a situation I don't remember to have come up before. In cases where this has been observed, e.g. In fish production, we've established specific laws to deal with this, and that's why it's very difficult to run with the answers. This is one of the big projects waiting for us. Otherwise, I say, of course, the council here has full custody of the case and can make changes. There are countless screws that have been set in a certain way in all kinds of conditions back and forth in support loans and other things that can be considered, including the increased resources of pension to invest in innovation funds. [[The president calls.]] The question may be, Is everything perfectly set?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u128	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I agree that the project is complicated and that it needs to be adjusted, and we're working a little bit. That's why I say I was expecting this operation right now to change the part-time process because it's been there for more than two weeks, I'd say pretty much about the last package, that this way, the part-time process, needs to be better implemented. I expected that to be done, but I'm impressed. Ministers to employ changes, preferably at the beginning of the next week, and preferably for the next month's match when there is an enterprise's payoff structure and more. I'd like to ask a minister if he's watching -- I know he'll do it all equal - the trend in Europe that we'll see then that the nations go to a greater degree for direct support. We'll see to it that the Germans are going to increase their debt rate from 40% to well over 50% and to go directly to support their companies. It's the highest. Ministers will do that in the near future? Of the 60 billion that were introduced yesterday, 70% are in borrowing and postponing tax pay. There are many fine ways, but I rest assured that we must not owe our job life so that we won't get enough resistance when we need it. It is true that everyone cannot be saved at all times. No one's talking about it. I'm the highest. Ministers to speak to their party members about the tourism services, at least Contact me today. What matters is that people get this feeling and have felt that they have stood in front of opportunities, that they are not just threaded to put these people's companies on a burning sale because they did not have a temporary opportunity to spend the opportunity of surviving this unprecedented crisis. [[The president calls.]] That's the tip I give the most. A minister to take with him.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u129	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator for the continuation of the part - time work guide as the answer to the situation is very important. This must be done as soon as possible, and we have a special group of work in it. Actually, the part - time ministry is a bill originally derived from the Ministry of Social Affairs, but we have a special group there. Let us bear in mind that we have 33,000 Icelanders on part - time witnessing today, where the State is involved in pay expenses. This is no small operation. She's talking about a travel service company. I hear today that some call for a special operation for the tourism companies. A large number of tourism companies are benefiting from this. The government today takes large amounts of the pay expenses of these companies. The situation that faces this point is that some of these companies have no income and ask how they should deal with the notice deadlines of even all the employees next and whether they will be making decisions to make it easier to get through that period. Clearly, there are different ways. We can use the social systems we have. You can just think of borrowing because of that. Now I'm just doing some ideas that have been mentioned to me. Then, it may be justified by the government's supporting of an enterprise in such a way that is comparable to that of part - time activity. These are all things I feel like. We need to be quick to answer that question. I agree that we need to give business opportunities and people to experience that we have done everything within our power and that it is realistic to have the expectations that we do to support men in these difficult times. When we look at all the resources that have come forward and support from financial institutions, I think most people can say in good conscience that today's schedule is a great benefit to the masses. [[The president calls.]] And it's being added.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u130	A respectable president. This is where I recommend a bill to legalize financial support to my operator for a pandemic crown virus. The bill is part of the government's second course of action to address the impact of the epidemic here. The bill discusses two resources, closing power and support loans, which are mainly tailored to smaller companies and business workers. In the shape of the measures, they were particularly concerned with the resources that have already been used for the epidemic, such as postponing tax pay and the part - time work route. These options include operators who carry unlimited tax obligations in Iceland and who had started a operation prior to February 1 of this year. The first resort, called closing strength, includes those operators who have temporarily had to stop or severely reduce their job because of official recommendations on the limitations of the meetings and have become heavily paid for it. It is suggested that this group of operators can apply for a special isolation grant to the tax. In order for the recruiter to have the right to a final concentration from the state fund, he must meet all of the following conditions: First of all, he had to close a work station or was forbidden to engage in activities or services between March 24, 2020, and May 3, 2020, for instructions on 5 st. Advertisers No. 243/2020, about the limitations of meetings for epidemics. Second, in April 2020, his income was at least 75% lower compared to the same month before. If a operator has started his work after April 1, 2018, so that when it is difficult to compare with previous years, his income will be compared in April 2020 to his average income in 30 days from the end of February 2020. Third, his income was at least 4.2 million. K. In 2019 or equivalent amount of money on the basis of future activity. Fourth, he does not underdemnate on official fees due to one day before the end of 2019, and he does not pay taxes and charges are based on programmes that mean that the person has submitted the report. Fifth, it has not been replaced or broken. At a financial level, the main policy of the cost of operating is that of the closing period. The magnitude, however, cannot exceed 800,000. every paid person, and to a maximum it will be 2.4 million. K. per operator. The strength can be applied to September 1, 2020, and the application procedure will be electronic. The tax will supervise applications and be denied to head tax committees. If there is any doubt whether the operator was obliged to shut down the job, the tax and the post-traumatic events of the head tax Committee will seek counsel from the health secretary who published the advertisement. It is estimated that as many as 2.5 billion dollars may be spent in the financial cost of funding. The second resort, so - called supportive loans, is suggested to ensure that the state's funds fully guarantee from a loan agency to a smaller operator who has suffered a significant and temporary loss of income because of the effects of the Korean epidemic. The right - to - loan team is far larger than the one who can apply for strength. In order for the operator to be entitled to a supportive loan, he or she must meet all of the following conditions: First of all, his income was during a 60 - day continuous period between March 1, 2020, and September 30, 2020, or it is expected to be at least 40% lower than the same 60-day period of 2019. If he has started business later, he will be in line for a later 60 - day period. Second, his income during the year 2019 was a minimum of 9 billion. K. and up to a maximum of 500 million. K. or equivalent amount of money based on a future operation that was part of a year. Third, his salary was 2019 at least 10% of the cost of operating or the same amount of money calculated if further activity began. Here we have a lower standard than the loans and we believe that there is a reason to have more broader resources for these smaller companies. We're going to lower the threshold for access to this loan project by a substantial amount of 10% instead of the one in the bridge loans, 25%. Fourth, he has not paid out money, unsurpassed bonuses, bought his own stocks, paid by an obligatory loan for dues or close owners' loans or other payments that are not necessary to maintain business management and management loans from March 1, 2020, and pledged to the employee that will not be the time of the State's trust, no interest, no purchases, no purchases, no purchases of his own stocks, no bills exorcing loans before pay, no loans, no payments, no debt or payment to the owner's owners, no such things from March 1 during this year of responsibility, during the time of his life. Fifth, he is not missing a loan agency, so he has lasted for more than 90 days. sixth, he is not underreached by official fees, which were due one day before the end of the last year, and taxes and costs are not based on schedules. Seven: His nest has not been replaced or broken. The eighth must be expected to operate effectively when the direct effects of the epidemic and the government's efforts to defend it are over. Of course, this is a somewhat estimating point, but I'm sure you can bring it. Here's the same thing, the money of support loans can pick up up to 10% of the earner's salary in 2019, but for whom the operator can't be more than 6 million. K. Maybe a lot of people think 6 million. K. does not have a large amount of money and cannot have a major impact on such a large economy as ours, but the fact is that a large number of companies have just a small number of employees, and they have been affected temporarily by the viral epidemic, including of the ban that has greatly reduced quality, both in the capital area and in many parts of the country. The small store has felt its effects, and this has resulted in fewer dollars'worth of money to cover fixed business expenses. There, money, such as 1, 2, 3, and up to 6 million, can have a powerful effect on the right person's position. These loans are especially affordable and reimbursed over a long period of time. They carry the same growth and interest of seven days'loan loan loan loans at the Federal Bank. They are provided for 30 months, and they will be reimbursed with the 12 stable payments in the last 12 months. It is mandatory that loans can be used only to cover the cost of loans. At the same time, a post-final strength has been obtained which will be withdrawn from maximum interest level. The borrower's application should be directed through a service puzzle in Iceland.is for the lender's granting. If the terms of loan are met, the loan system will be lent to the operator. In other words, we are building a special website for the payment of these loans and for applications for the granting of the tax. There the operator registers, gives all information, notices that he or she is responsible for all of them being correct, recognizes the guidelines found in the bill for misinformation or abuse. All of this is made in a way that can lead to the quick recovery of applications. The aim is to get ready to accept applications for the grant as the change in the meeting ban goes into effect around May 4. If the council will have settled the matter at that time, there should be every basis for us to be prepared to accept our applications immediately and to be quickly reassigned to the rest of this matter. I think I can also claim that we will be able to handle the loan parts in a comparable way, accept applications, and put their payoffs in the right direction during the early May. All our plans are to assume that. It is not long before these items can be moved, even though it took us longer than I had hoped to get the planets out to customers. There is, in fact, nothing to prevent this, when both the law and the terms between the Ministry of Economics and the Federal Bank have been established, that companies are having a conversation with their credit institutions on a possible bridge loan. Of course, in order for such loans to be paid, the matter must be closed. In this option here, these support loans, the loan agencies involved in the resources must have made a deal with the Secret Bank on the performance of the loans, and as was the case in the budget, the contract is based on financial and economic minister's contract with the Secret Bank. We have made a plan that can be read in a series of articles with the bill on which these loans could be possible. It's not very accurate science that you are doing when you're doing a possible job, but the bill shows that we have about 18,000 companies in the commercial economy that have people on the payroll and that about 14,000 of them are deemed to meet these general criteria and staff numbers. There will be a quarter of 14,000 enterprises, but since we have one additional requirement for the loss of income, it is clear that not all 14,000 companies will meet the criteria. So the question is, how much of these 14000 companies have suffered a 40% drop in income? It's not known exactly, but we can get clues, including... from a survey made by the Association of Business Affairs to its members, indicating that a large percentage of their members felt that they had been exposed to at least 50% loss of income during this period. From this point on, the plan is that around 8,000 companies could meet the criteria and if they take these very good loans to deal with business difficulties, the scope of the support loans may be about 28 billion. An enterprise that takes support loans does not provide its right to later take a bridge loan if a customer's bank believes that the terms of receiving such loans are met. In that case, as we know, the financial agency is taking its own loan loss risk and is subject to only another course on such loans. This bill suggests that the monitoring committee appointed by financial and economic secretary to monitor the implementation of additional loans for the pandemic will also be assigned to monitor the implementation of the support loans. So this is the same surveillance committee, and it has what's under the law of extra loans, and I have in my speech referred to as bridge loans, the same monitoring committee that we're building on comparable information and reporting. I refer to their laws regarding the order of the surveillance committee. A respectable president. I've finished my case and suggested that the bill be referred to why. The Economic and Business Committee, after the end of this discussion and then through 2nd. At the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u131	Mr. President. Now that our common funds are being set aside to face a very serious situation in order to work against unemployment and contribute to the immediate start of the business and to increase as the epidemic has passed, governments must at the same time carefully evaluate how it is done. Therefore, I understand that there are conditions for support loans and other government procedures. The report on the bill says that the operator cannot borrow support unless it is expected that he will be run out when the direct effects of a pandemic crown virus and the government's measures to protect the spread of the virus have passed. It is then stated that this condition will be further developed by regulations such as the Supreme Court. The minister went over earlier. How are you planning to go to the top? Ministerial assessment in this uncertainty period of travel services, e.g. When the epidemic is over, who does not? When is the Regulation due?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u132	A respectable president. It must be completed in order to answer the details of this Regulation. Here we are. working with the position that the operator may be aware of a point that will lead to failure in some period of time. By allowing it to stand in the law, by making humans responsible for the lack of knowledge of such factors, we prevent us from borrowing on special interest to those who, anyway, are not able to survive with these support measures. That's the basic thought. Of course, it's difficult to implement, follow, and monitor laws, but I still think it's extremely important that we agree that we do not take action that companies benefit from that which has, whether it is a basis when the situation improves. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u133	Mr. President. What a difficult assignment this is, yet the highest! A minister has to solve it in some way. Tourism is a bit of a mystery. Travel service was our biggest industry, and now it's almost broken down. How can tourism companies determine whether they are likely to be successful when the epidemic is over? How's the top? A minister to do so in order to give up his support loans? I can't figure this situation out. I'm asking the highest. Minister: What's the plan? Has there been any plans on how a job life will develop here by Covid-19? That's what makes it great. A minister assumes that once the epidemic has passed, it will just be as if nothing had happened and all the tourism are completely churning? How on earth is this problem to be solved?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u134	A respectable president. Here's where we're going. Senator for Secretary of Regulation. It is not necessarily necessary to issue a Regulation. I could most easily see the need to issue a ruling if, in the process, some special opinion arose that the financial companies believe would cause problems with handling and touching, e.g. In particular, Article 10. where there are various conditions, not just that. A senator here stresses the matter. I think we must agree that this can be difficult for us to eat. This, however, is the right message for those who are seeking a loan. We are not trying to reach out to those who have information about things that cause them to have no future. Let's say, for example. that if there is any reason to have written a patent or something but recently received permission not to be recorded by the patents, there is information on the situation that has important aspects of the future. [[The president calls.]] I mention this randomly as some textbook example of an event that might apply. We'll do the work of these cases so that people will meet all these primary divisions, and they'll be very sensitive to borrowing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u135	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech and for giving this matter to us. I'm happy to present a matter of individuality looking into the small companies that have had to close but are fighting and looking forward to the future. We all know that our private sector is very important to us, and it needs to be able to develop and grow and thrive. I missed when the first package arrived that it did not reveal how much work was to be done in the private sector or then in the state. In many places, I found a focus on the state. But I'd like to ask the highest. A minister, whether it is impossible to establish a clear definition of the operating method as discussed here. Is such standards impossible to set that are clear, obvious, and transparent? It is always difficult and tricky when we have some thoughtful evaluation of things. Second, this support applies to May 3. What happens after May 3?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u136	A respectable president. I'm going to read this particular condition, which has been a matter of time. A senator asks about, which is what the article says: ▪ It may be determined, on the basis of objective criteria for his operation over the past year, that he will be able to be operational when the direct effects of a pandemic crown virus and the government's actions to protect him from the spread of the virus have passed. ▪ It's easy to say - that's a very smooth word. The person would have to have a valid reason to conclude that even if everything was in blossom and we were in a normal position, he would not be able to function properly. In this regard, for example, Close to the past to see if we were to have a permanent nesting in recent years that was eating up all our own money that was approaching zero, and they would never have been able to be on the right side of zero despite we've gone through a period of 2 million tourists, etc. There are these things. According to this law, it should be fairly obvious that the person involved was either, before this matter comes up, on the way to an empty trouble. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u137	A respectable president. I was wondering and actually asked about it too, and normally the time is short here with us, what happened after May 3. If I understand this case correctly, this operation applies to May 3 of which is 2.4 million or three times 800,000. which should be administered. Then, after May 3, something has to happen, either that the companies are in full rotation or some other kind of action, unless I'm mistaken. That's why I'm asking about it. Our attention has also been drawn to the fact that it is not enough to get any support if the companies are unable to open, such as barbers or massages and something like that, because of the current distance limits and the like. But I'm not beinglittled, it's important to meet the private sector, and I'm especially celebrating it. V.E.G. A minister specifically stated, and it is of course shown in the bill, that if I understand it correctly, this closing strength should be withdrawn from the loans. Is there any particular reason for that?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u138	A respectable president. With regard to the final point, it may have a clue to the meaning of the loans, that is an overlap in the purpose of these two schemes. However, May 4 is mentioned here because at a decision already made, it is assumed that all types of activities that have been completed can be restored at that point, e.g. massages, physical therapists, selectional actions, etc., all by references to the advertisement. So here we are looking forward to the period of May 4 and improving the damage that has occurred during that period. Then, because of the limitations that may remain in some case, further options may be needed. It will just have to be revealed and, of course, depends on the way we continue to deal with or stop the virus and the consequences of decisions on these substances.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u139	A respectable president. We'll talk about financial support to my operator. I wondered that when we put in a box these strengths and loans and bridges and all this, there'll always be people outside the box. I'm asking, is it the highest? Minister with any backup operations for those outside that area? We know there will be some. It must be the greatest horror in this situation to stand up all of a sudden without income, not knowing if you get any income, can do nothing, or look for it. Those who get caught in this situation can hardly call the 1717, the Red Cross's helper number, but is there someone in the Ministry to whom they can turn, who register and monitor and are ready to grab these parties? Otherwise, we're just throwing them for a living. I'm just saying, how are you going to tackle it? Because they could be saved later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u140	A respectable president. We are in this particular matter of Congress primarily looking to the operators, to those who have been involved, but there may be individuals who are operating on their own social security number. I got one, for example. Asking yesterday from a man who asked me on behalf of his daughter, who works in a hair shop and rents a position and runs a social security number, whether these measures would reach her, since she had no partner or any such costume around her business. And the answer is yes. Individuals, to meet other conditions of the law, can accept support. I believe we are reaching out to individuals who have temporarily shut down their business or have suffered setbacks and need support. I think the plan is to speak well to these people. I've been contacted by others who didn't even expect we were looking for such little business modules. There are people like that. in the health system that sees that they will be able to use these measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u141	President. Thank you very much. Minister for. It's great to know. It would actually be even better to know about an e - mail address or something that might be sent to, to get an answer to this question. Another thing I saw is that we're talking about a huge amount of 28 billion, probably 30 billion, I don't know which one is. It says here in the bill, by permission of the President: The amount of money on traffic could increase over the same amount of money that is useful in reducing potential accelerator problems in the economy. Considering the economic situation today, this increase in cash is not expected to have an adverse effect on the development of inflation. There's a spare, and this is just about to start with the inflation. This is an offer of 1.75% interest that is very favorable to interest. Is this just a defense? Or is it a fear that inflation might start?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u142	A respectable president. There is good reason to ask ourselves, " When I'm severely reducing my financial resources, whether or not I are offering back the risk of inflation. ' The question is understandable. A senator repeatedly points out the bad consequences of an inflation if necessary. But we feel that this bill is not likely to cause inflation on its own because it has become one of these in the economy, e.g. in the demand that companies no longer make income, many of them. I had a conversation here in the afternoon with a man who told me that it was simple that his business income had completely stopped streaming in, there had been a 100% drop in income. With such a dramatic change, we need to act quickly, and we are doing so in a powerful, but not so that it is likely to cause inflation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u143	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of the speech. This is an important strategy, i.e. this lock level followed by a supportive loan, both important measures and positive. But I just want to look at the effects on the treasure of the land. The State's responsibility for supporting loans means that it binds 0% of its creditors, i.e. The bank, and there's no effect on it. Then you ask what charge or reimbursement the state receives from the bank. Has this level of government risk been calculated and versed up by the lender of the loans? These are large amounts of money, ranging from 283/446 billion, and of course we want to make the most of this for those who need it. [[The president calls.]] Then it may be reasonable to ask, " How much is it going to the banks in the form of these bills? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u144	A respectable president. In effect, we make use of the services of the banks to get these funds as closely as possible from the State to those who need it. In the 15th. is discussed that the loan agency receives a special fee for this management. It will be further determined in a contract with the National Bank and will limit all the credit centres to what will be agreed there. However, the State is not really giving a third party a Kingdom responsibility, as is the case when we are taking a special government guarantee, but it is the next direct support for borrowing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u145	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. To me, it should be carefully observed that banks are not getting additional benefits at the taxpayers'expense. Of course, there's some cost. It just needs to be fair. But the amount is high, so there is a great deal at stake. I mention a match with the extra loans, the bridge loans, but the National Accounting Commission mentioned in their comments about the loans that there is an obvious danger in what was involved in insurance. When it comes to supporting loans, you ask, "Is it the same? " This guarantees that the banks were not required to demand additional insurance, i.e. to improve his loan and then to lend his additional loans with the government's risk? This is one of the monitoring factors to consider and the monitoring can be very complex with this loan account. [[The president calls.]] If the highest. A minister could merely intervene in how he sees it to be arranged, but also, as I mentioned, that the banks are not improving their loans at the cost of the State. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u146	A respectable president. That's a good tip for a man. Senator. If we were to assume that borrowing is a common mortgage, I think we could consider that credit institutions would only provide loans in general, as they would have insurance loans. But in the circumstances that have developed here, we cannot assume that bets and insurance are there, and that is why the state responsibility is there, to encourage loan agencies to take some part of the loan loss of risk, despite lack of debt. In this case, with the support loan, we are assuming that it is actually the same situation unless we are going to take 100% responsibility for those loans. Besides, I'd like to say that it's not that some companies that get support loans have failed in some way. We have a serious situation in our system that we have to assume that this is just not enough for many companies, that's too bad.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u147	A respectable president. I'd like to briefly introduce this subject, which is discussed here on the benefits and support loans introduced yesterday. I'd like to start by celebrating it, as with any other action taken in the upstairs position and expressing my joy in the closing power. I think it's a fair way and a good way to go. I know she's been introduced into Norway. This is a simple export and should be able to complete it without creating many complications and unnecessarys. I have to say first that many calculated that the package of action that was presented yesterday would be somewhat different, another government pack of measures, but I hope there's a shorter introduction in a third operation package than was between the first and the second. Most of the time, I would like to enter my support loans. It is expected that this will be made up of people who have a maximum of 500 million resources, and less management in the system has been seen. To put the figure in context for those at the upper limit of these revenues, there is a considerable chance that the pay will be made for a travel service company with 500 million in place to be about 250 million. K. every year. Once such a company has put all its employees in the 25% part - time job, the monthly pay of such parties is just over 5 billion. K. per month. So the maximum amount of loan is not an inch to a little more than a month's pay. I think that on its own it should be emphasized that there is a probability that further action is needed. But it certainly came to the highest. The financial minister in his history is aware that support loans did not shut down the fact that businesses could take advantage of the planet's way. That's what I'm pointing to at the highest. Secretary of finance, if he comes back in speaking under this case, that it was interesting to know what the situation is about the outcome of the loans. In this regard, I am far more concerned with my efforts between the Federal Bank and Business Banks, their disposal, than my dismissal of the agreement between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Federal Bank, which has a reputation and is in good stead with it. But it is this waste on the edge between the Secret Bank and the Business Banks that I think it is of utmost importance to be able to complete, in fact, no later than right away, because there are only four, five active days ahead of pay payment for companies who have been looking at these solutions for a month now as well as at least one. Part of the solution is temporary problems. I just want a little bit of support loans to come on conditions. One of the conditions is a 40% decrease in income. Of course, there should be a definition of a rule as this, but I still need to be examined in the Committee's work, and I'm suggesting that the case should end this discussion. It is important to ensure that companies who have fought with all available options since this situation were established will continue their business in a totally different way. I mention in this context of restaurants that have set out for the end of the world service instead of serving visitors who will be there, and so on. Enterprises and business operators who have worked night and day to keep the business going must not have it in the back now, with perhaps 35◯38% loss of income, but have done everything, because such measures are not free, to alter their company's management over the night to keep the things that are possible to walk. This needs to be examined. I'd also like to introduce to you a point that's the fourth point in the conditional conditions. He turns to money that I think is perfectly normal and that limitations are on, just as it was on the bridge road, whether something was examined in the Ministry and possibly on the part-change process, because the approach is the same, whether it is a reason to look at it in the case of a mother's society and from there for loans. I don't have a very formal view of this, but the structure and organization of an enterprise is diverse, and it is known that the funding of a business can lie in a mother's society and money paid by a daughter's partner to make it a success of a loan agency. Then there is the point towards the reduction of the closing value from the maximum loan level of 1 mg. In this case, it is, in effect, a frame that covers a maximum of 6 million companies in this case. I don't know many stories about very large companies who have closed down because of their policies, but they may exist, so to speak. At least one turn should be taken by the Economic and Business Committee to examine this particular clause. Of course, a special consideration should then be given in the context of the 14th paragraph. that a supportive loan can only be used to cover the expenses of borrowing patients. In terms of conditions, see the 5th paragraph. that the operator must not overlook credit institutions that have lasted more than 90 days. Of course, there's a serious misappreciation, and it's likely that you've piled up in the system these past two months, so it's not going to be vacuumed in the whole of yours, for the rest of your life, in detriment of loan institutions. But it's the export I have, as a matter of fact, no special suggestions but suggest that the Economic and Business Committee discuss specific matters. To say that I like this part of the operation, it does not change the fact that more intensive and more extensive measures are needed in terms of the fact that everyone observing the position now developing, if the job life does not reach out of these catastrophes, will be surmounted to having a smoldering good welfare and education system and a wide range of public operations if there is a lasting loss of employment potential.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u148	A respectable president. Hv. A senator has entered some of the conditions that are probably temporary and normal. One is the determining factor. It's always a matter of opinion. In the preparatory work, standards were viewed as even lower or higher, 300 million, 500 million. When compared with the company registry, you can see that moving the criteria around some hundred million is not everything in a number of companies, but in the case mentioned, it could be the very way to which the extra loan is considered, a business might be useful. The secret bank is now working hard to complete its contract with financial institutions and, based on the information I have received, I have expected that, let's say, no later than the previous May of May, will put an application out of hand due to that detriment. This is also a set of criteria for loss of income. It's bad with a reference like that, it's going to be a huge perimeter effect. You're either in or out. If you do not achieve a 40% loss of income because you have 38%, it simply does not have the option available, not in any proportion. So they're just outside. I don't think it's wrong for men to wonder if this is exactly right there in 40%. But I have left the discussion here today, and the last few days are just as likely to be thinking about a company that was not made to close similar to an enterprise as it was. A senator mentioned, but he has suffered serious setbacks, even up to 100% loss of income and is now trusting in part - time witnessing and asking me how we can meet such companies, especially in view of the fact that the situation seems to last much longer than we were hoping when we spoke perhaps a month ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u149	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answered. I think it's a great option if there's a drawing up now and a company can start working out that the answers or results of the payoffs for the bridge loans are for early May. I think a lot of people were hoping that this process would be over in time so that cases would be taken care of for this month's meeting. It seems that many have trusted that this would be the case in many parts of the world. But I think it's at least possible that there's now four, five days before a down payment, but that you're actually up at the last minute to trust that it will be the solution, so, of course, this sends that message into the banking system: Now you have to stand by your companies. I think it's very good. I'm glad to hear the answers. A minister to consider the standards of quality and the loss of resources. But I also realize that this is not simple, and because in the other side, the person here calls out that the action is general and clear, I quite realize that such goals conflict with it. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance, even if it's not part of this matter and he's getting over it if he doesn't like to talk about it now, about the part-change process. I'm very worried about her, and I'd rather expect her to be part of a package of action introduced yesterday. Of course, it's the point that many companies have flaunted as a great problem, i.e. to people who are having trouble living up to 25% of their wages, are totally unemployed, and see that when they resign from employees they won't be needed after things start to improve, they might be killed. [[The president calls.]] To receive 100% salary for three months for those with such a recruitment relationship must be insurmountable. [[The president calls.]] How do you feel about that? Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u150	A respectable president. I just want to take this opportunity and enter that condition as a matter of course. In his talk, a senator mentioned that companies were not to be neglected for 90 days with credit institutions. I think it is a reason to promote it that according to the information we have received from the financial institutions, the vast majority of the enterprises that have asked for assistance have it approved and should be indelibly paid and not be considered illegal. We're talking about more than 90% of those who have been looking for a deadline to pay for it. Regarding the part - time work, I can say that it would have been useful to have further implementation on the way, where it is temporary and just a month before it should be completed by law. We have a working group to look at different options for what to take. We need to let new solutions speak into this changed reality, i.e. the fact that there is a very small chance that many tourists will come here this summer and it will have a lot of effect, not just in clean tourism companies, but in every sort of company all around us. One person spoke to me today, who just had to close his shop here - from where we stand and where we stand - the income is 0, but they have to pay rents, and they don't see that business taking over where it's worn by tourists. We need to act on this. There is one thing about the part-time work process that we need to be aware of, which is the basis for the preparation of a part-work contract and of the employee from the start and the change of the arrangement during the time the contract was due to take place.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u151	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the answers. I don't think it's the subject of this particular case that's being discussed here, that it's all so closely tied up. So I think it's very important that the basis for the part-way contract is taken into consideration. While someone is not thinking it well, I think it's important to consider that it will be more important to see that this is a direct support for an enterprise, simply because without the company, there is no recruitment relationship to protect. I just hope that this review is going well and well with the groups that are working it and interesting to hear what's coming out of the wind, because this is the thing that concerns the operators, who are faced with a complete drop of income right now, are in the utmost trouble under 25% of the pay, where they don't have any chance to stand under all other payment, to see 100% paid for three months to employees that all of whom are aware of today that may not be needed within the particular operation when the number of tourists is gone from the two million that he may have spent in all the first count of the first few months after the journeys, however, after getting back to some point.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u152	A respectable president. Here I recommend a bill to correct further economic impacts following a pandemic crown virus. This bill suggests changes in income tax laws, legislation on support of innovation companies and credit laws due to the high uncertainty now existing in the economy and the economy of the country after the pandemic has been declared due to the Korean virus that causes the Covid-19 disease. In addition, the law on related insurance rights and the business of pension funds is proposed to make room for the disposal of pension funds for the common investment. It is increasing the ratio to 35% with the more specific conditions. Already there have been approved laws on changing the law to meet the economic impact of this epidemic. Thus, it is another step by the government to meet the recession that has taken place in modern employment. The bill also contains changes in rural income laws, temporary payment laws for the pay of persons who are infested with government regulations without being infected and the media laws. Let me now discuss the unique subject of the bill, first of all, the continuation of taxpayers. It is anticipated that many companies will yield profits for business in 2019 but losses for business management in 2020. It is suggested that responsible lawyers be given the option to postpone tax pay due to 2019 and to balance loss in 2020 at the time of the trial. The operation allows an enterprise providing a loss in the current year to apply for further delay in income tax payment until the completion of the next year's application and to reduce the rate of taxation due to the calculated loss of the year to meet the rules of the law. According to current tax laws, it is permitted to transfer losses to the next ten business years, called overcrowding losses, but it has not been permitted to move a loss to previous years, called a retrospective loss, but it is now suggested that this be done. The operation will support enterprises and their enterprises and will enable companies to deal more effectively with the challenges that exist today because of the Covid-19. The maximum tax price required to postpone payment on is 20 million. K. The main options for SMEs are such as the small and medium-sized enterprises, while about 98% of the 2019 enterprises were funded for stress because of the 2018 management year, had tax paid for under 20 million. K. Thus, raising this standard would have a significant impact over 20 million. K. Up to 25 million. K. In terms of the total financial value, we would primarily be postponing the tax pay of large companies. Next, I'd like to mention tax treatments after the administration of legal and professional bills. Remuneration is taxable, and all the financial benefits are paid by taxpayers. There are only individuals and no business partners involved. In the years that followed, this was managed by temporary tax treatments, which were valid for the management and income of 2009-2010, when a large number of companies went through financial reorganization. The requirement was that the debt had been established directly in connection with the job and that the overwhelming losses and loss of the year would have been equal. The step was followed so further with new provisional regulations for further evacuation of specific regulations, i.e. that society is not permitted to participate in the same taxation, unity, or exchange within the same period without the authority of the governor. The provisional regulations were extended up to 2014. In view of the situation this bill is intended to deal with, it is suggested that similar rules take place because of the years 2020, 2021, and 2022, in connection with the implementation of the debt of lawgivers and people of employment due to financial problems. This particular point could be taken into account in a very far way, but we are here discussing making these changes in tax treatments, regardless of whether the transfer has taken place within the required contracts after payment or only in voluntary agreements and in some cases when such agreements need to be made, whether outside or within the legal process, may be a limited amount of funds to be taken to obtain contracts of the report. You have some limited budget, and in order to achieve a down payment contract, you have to make a contribution, pay some percentage of the demand, say 20% to get 80% down, as all agree that you will be running out of options for the company. It's a bit tough if this situation allows for a breakdown in 80% of the tax system, which takes only the small parts of the company, thus not being used to save it. This is one of the basic reasons why this is suggested. So we're up to the third factor, the growth of innovation. To begin with, we are suggested to make a preliminary change in the legislation on support of innovation companies, which are responsible for the deduction rate from the proposed income tax industry in 2021 and 2022 due to the implementation of their costs of research and development projects to which they are owners and have received confirmation of the National Research Centre, Ranniss. The withdrawal rate will therefore increase from 20% to 25% and is an increase according to the official level allowed by the state's aid as this, in accordance with the general general population rules of reporting to the EEA Convention. Second, changes to the same law are proposed to increase the current reference levels of taxes from the prescribed income tax in 2021 and 2022 due to the research and development costs of innovation companies. On one hand, the suggestion includes maximising the rate of research and development for general reference of withdrawal to increase from 600 million. K. into 900 million. K. If the enterprise is owned by research or development projects. However, a comparable amount of money is suggested to increase from 900 million. K. of 1,100 million. K. when research and development is purchased by an unplugged company, university or institution. Next, there is a reimbursement tax to a rural society. We discussed this possibility with the first pack of action, but this is why we suggest to support the objective of rural society for a quick development of rural society or organizations and to have their temporary rights to reimburse men's work at the site of construction, maintenance, or restoration in a home other than their home and vacation house owned entirely. With the change, communities or organizations and communities owned entirely by them will be given a corresponding warrant for reimbursement of a valuable tax, which was granted by law in 2009 and is part of the measures taken following the financial crisis. Then the bill suggests that there will be an evacuation of pension funds to invest in funds on a common investment aid in improving the investment environment of innovation in the country, e.g. by making it easier for the establishment of innovation funds. Pension of pension funds to invest in such funds may be legalized to a maximum of 20% per fund, but the bill suggested that the release of pensions to share certificates or items in each fund of shared investments will be temporarily increased to 35%. With the change, three pension funds would need access to a fund, instead of five today, which would facilitate funding of such funds and support the government's programme for improving innovation's investment environment in this country. The government's plans for the same purpose are for the establishment of Kía a sceptre and innovation, while the bill of the material has been submitted to the Council, and if I know it, it's here today. I just want to mention this particular proposal briefly that there are further conditions in the bill that I expect the committee to go down on as with the share of the treasure of life. There is reason to consider whether despite the rise to 35%, there may be a threshold of this type to meet the purpose of the provision, i.e. For factors such as share share ratio. In terms of rural income society, there are new laws on them here. First of all, there is a need to change authority to provide contributions from the property fund of rural society. It was established in connection with the translocation of disabled persons from a country in rural society on January 1, 2011. The commission of the fund was to take over the rights and obligations of government property, which had been used to minister to disabled people. He also took over the property, rights, and responsibilities of a disabled person who was laid down. Legally, funds were designed to provide companies with contributions for the development or changes in property used in the services of severely and/or specific needs of the disabled. Hence, the funds are confined to projects that are primarily used for the services of disabled people with intense or specific needs, such as living apartments. As part of the community's activities due to the impact of the pandemic Covid-19, the fund was also suggested to be involved in the bioavailability issues of the disabled, but it was apparent that such tasks would fall outside the role of the fund as defined in the legality of farm members. It is therefore suggested that the fund will also be permitted to contribute to rural society through projects with the objective of improving the bioavailability of the disabled in buildings and rural areas. It is also suggested that the branch budget be given to help fund the property funds of rural funds to provide general donations, basic schools, and contributions for the languages of disabled persons during 2020. The purpose is to reduce the impact of income loss of the equation budget due to the Covid-19 on the general budget this year. Next, I'm going to discuss temporary pay on the pay of persons who are infected. The Act on pay paid by persons who are infected with a health authority without having to be infected shows that the law includes payment for employers who have paid pay paid pay paid payers during the period between February 1, 2020 and April 30, 2020. In addition, it is stated that the law on payment for employees who are diseased at the same time does not receive pay from the employer. The law then shows that it means payment for independent persons who are infected at the same time. It is suggested that the period covered by the law should be extended to include the events when the above persons are infected during the period of February 1, 2020 through September 30, 2020. The goal of the law is to support the employers who pay the pay when other rights, such as treaties, are not applicable. This aims to enable individuals to follow the health authorities'instructions to be diseased without worrying about their survival. Therefore, it is important that the duration of the law be extended to September 30, since there is still some uncertainty about the development of the epidemic, even though we have been successful in controlling it and the reduction of the number of newers. It is then suggested that the law does not have a hired person or an individual who goes outside, although it may have been clear when he left home that he would need to be diseased, as health authorities have suggested that those in that country need to be diseased during his return. It is then suggested that the laws of the law be applied to you until the end of this year. Finally, a respected president, has a change in the media law to allow the Minister of Education and Culture to be allowed in this year by a Regulation to implement arrangements for the payment of special management services to special media services because of the widespread problem that now confronts private media because of the epidemic. Over the past few years, a large number of exceptional media in this country have been on the verge of perpetuation. Their employers have made significant progress, such as due to rapid technological change and ad reduction, along with the changing commercialism of companies on the market. At the same time, the challenges faced by the private media are now facing a projected drop in income due to the recession of the number of sectors due to the epidemic. In view of this, the bill suggests that a single intervention will be carried out in order to facilitate the management of special media in this country because of the temporary problems caused by the pandemic. Strong personal media skills are particularly important in these days because of their role in promoting enlightenment and discussion in the community, as well as in providing government support and support for public health in the broader sense that the term has gained during the pandemic. The changes proposed in the bill will have a negative effect on the survival of a government fund to a shorter date if the bill is not legal. It may well be estimated that the proposal for the bill suggests that a retrospective use of sector loss can reduce the pay of state funds by up to 13 billion dollars. This year. In the long run, it seems equal and has limited financial impact on the state funds, where companies are expected to have less overwhelming losses for the next few years and, as a result, pay income taxes sooner again. At this time, it is difficult to assess the scope of financial restructuring of law and business professionals in the coming year and thereby what the impact of postponement and possible post-reflation due to decommissionation may have on the state's budget. However, companies in general had a higher debt and a lower budget for collapse than today, and hopes are being made to bring results, including the result of financial restructuring of viable enterprises. with these actions. An increase in the extraction rate of selected income tax companies due to the implementation of their costs of research and development projects results in the support of the balance of income taxes and a direct reimbursement in 2020 and 2022 due to the management years 2020 and 2021. Increase in the maximum economic altitudes of the deduction costs has an additive effect on support. The overall increase of support can be estimated to be 3 billion. However, the overall impact on government funds should over time be a positive end of the change's purpose to promote more innovation through a positive impact on public interest and for the future prosperity. Sources of reimbursement tax to rural society or to local institutions and partners owned by the construction, reform or maintenance costs will reduce financial support for such projects. The government's budget will yield tax returns to more than the total tax collections that would still be obtained where the warrant is expected to encourage its effect. Taking into account existing rural programmes for implementation in 2020 and also considering reimbursement according to a similar source in 2009-2014, it may be estimated that reimbursement to the rural community could be at least One billion bucks. which is then distributed over 2020 and 2021. The government will benefit from the exchange of these many new jobs, which would otherwise not have resulted in the deduction of the cost directly from the reimbursement of the tax. The bill presents a special increase in the accessation of pension funds to cover common investments only in small and medium-sized innovation companies. These criteria are, as I've traced here, to move from 20% to 35%, but it is also a climax that each pension fund should not have more than 1% of its total resources in such funds. I feel that there's some way I can check in the Committee whether it might be inhibited. The overall property of the pension fund is about 5,000 billion dollars today. This is an amazing sum of money, so pension funds will be made possible in the above - mentioned funds of up to 50 billion dollars. if we look at 1% criteria. Whether this amount is precisely in accordance with the needs of investments or investments has not been determined, we believe that this authority has been designed to increase the diversity of the dierent funds and, perhaps most important, contributes to projects in research and development that are long-term valuables and support the sector's sector. The bill suggests changes in real estate provisions that will have a positive influence on access issues. This will temporarily shift funds from real estate funds to pay the general donations, elementary schools, and languages of disabled people and to soften the impact of income loss. State funds costs are not expected to be affected by changes in rural income laws, and the bill does not affect total income or total amount of the equation. The healthcare authority's operation to give direct instructions that the person being infected is the first phase of action to prevent the spread of the pandemic. A bill that made temporary payments for the pay of persons who are infected under the authority's direction without being infected shows that there was great uncertainty about the pandemic development and that it was impossible to determine how long special measures would be required to take. So there was no basis for evaluating potential numbers of people who could be entitled to pay in accordance with the bill. This was based on the total number of persons who would be infested with contagion in the period of February 1, ◯30. April of this year, there would be about 5,000 individuals and the number of subjects with the bill would reach a maximum of some 5,500,3,000 individuals. This has been played so that on April 20, over 18,000 people had completed their contours and more than 1,100 individuals were in it that day. It is reasonable to assume that nearly four times as many people are exposed to the field of infection during this period as expected in the above - mentioned bill. There is still uncertainty about the development of the epidemic, and there is no basis for evaluating how many are going to be infected until September 30. It can be assumed that, as I've only been on it, the spread of the disease will decrease and the number of people being instructed to get infected will also be reduced. Finally, it should be noted that the total cost of the state budget due to management support to the media is expected to be up to 350 million. K. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u153	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for a very good and thorough review. I'd like to start by starting with the question at the highest point. Minister concluded his case, i.e. on the media. The government has not now completed the period of available media bill, and that is, as it has been clearly stated, especially due to opposition to the bill from the highest council. Minister. It speaks of the money for the personal aid of the media up to 400 million. K. So I would like to ask, first of all, how is this exchange amount, 350 million, obtained? Like most other companies in a private market, there is a huge loss of income for the media, and the amount is low in that sense. I wondered how it is given and whether a minister is convinced that it will make a difference in the circumstances in which the media now live, whether they were taking a look at the figures, possible advertising, and making a realistic assessment of the situation, and what would be needed to improve the damage that the media can perform. Then I kind of come to the second question about this lawsuit. Clearly, the role of the media in times of adversity is never more important than its role. I feel positive, I think it's a good thing for the government and for all the governments to be righteous and rigid in keeping free media. I mean, from the heart of my heart, and I say, it's not good for the dominant government, nor for any government, that under the circumstances such as these are the media in a straitjacket, on the one hand, in a straitjacket because of the loss of money they have suffered, also because it has been so long gone by the government. [[The president calls.]] We now have this widely distributed legal rights of the minister and, like the highest. The secretary of finance has entered the secretary of education, the Secretary of the press, throughout the year to settle it. [[The president calls.]] It's the highest. The secretary of finance doesn't agree with me that it's too long? [[The president calls.]] Is this not something to be done now that is not hanging over the media and therefore with the possible impact on their discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u154	A respectable president. This proposal is made because of a special concern for the media position, and it is an additional form of proposals available in the council, based on a budget of 400 million and on a bill mentioned on the committee. If there is no special legal authority in addition to the funds available, it must be guaranteed, both of these projects will be completed this year. In fact, here we are entering a position that has caused certain uncertainty and has led to the failure of the case. I'd like to say, whatever the case, we're going to make sure that the minimum money is in 2020, and we'd like to get it out of the council as soon as possible. I see a conversation with the Ministry of Education and the Minister under Congress where the details of how such a Regulation might look, what the minister's got on it. I've generally been a great spokesman for the time I've been sitting here at the council to determine an important point in the Regulation or in the development of special ministers. We are here with a very open law, which I feel calls for some clearer answer to come. However, this issue does not prevent the council from reaching the decision on how the matter would be handled. It is a matter of personal choice when that matter should be rendered, when the law should be valid, whether the will of the council is in order to set matters straight from the end of the year or the next year or the middle of the year or the fall or when. The combination of these two resources, then, determines the total budget needed for the year 2020 to meet its results. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u155	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answer. It is clear that this matter will be discussed further. I'd like to use the minute I have left to talk about innovation and reimbursement, i.e. increase in the roof and increase in the proportion of reimbursement. That is shown in the case of the highest. Minister to estimate the total cost of about 3 billion dollars. And so the minister rightly says: But the overall effect is positive. And I'd like to ask why it's just 2021 and 2022? Why do humans not use this opportunity in mortal capacity to contribute well to the long - term innovation? I think we all agree that it's an investment that pays itself many times. We've talked about a lot of times, including... Here in this chair, the time to really spit in and we also know that temporary injections in the innovations are at least much less likely to be successful than if the road had to do with the long future. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I am genuinely interested in knowing that it was not possible to change this for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u156	A respectable president. I think that when we get together, we've been in a continuous effort to strengthen research, development and innovation in Iceland for the past few years. We really see this changing first by large contributions into the competitive fund. One of the priorities in the 2013 government was to insert large sums of money into the competition fund. Since then, we've changed the legal environment very significantly. We have recently put a special injection into the competitive fund with the first tool package, and here we are taking even more steps. I think that by letting the options hold for this and the next year's management, this increase in the reference height, we will be able to stimulate an enterprise to create even more jobs in the country. [[The president calls.]] In the following year, you will probably appreciate how that has been done, and you will consider whether we should continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u157	A respectable president. We will discuss further economic measures for the crown virus. In particular, I welcome the means of spending to enhance the availability of disabled persons in particular to public buildings and rural and work areas. It's a long time. I really hope that if you put a lot of money on this, you can all stop these obstacles once and for all. We are shamed that such public buildings cannot be accessed as such. He's just an agent of the Generals. Then there's what's supposed to go into a innovation company, that's the pension fund, and we're talking about up to 1% of total property, huge sums of 50 billion. These are venture investments, and this, of course, is future pensions in these funds and, as a result, are taking some risks, we know that some things do not work in all of this. I ask them a different question: Will the government contribute similar amounts of money to innovation, and that is, encourage the pension fund to do? I could use some. I realize that there's nothing wrong with going into innovation and other things because we know that the tourist industry we trust is totally falling apart, so we need something new. What will a government fund do, will he see to it that the obstacle to the disabled is removed, and will the state put as much money into innovation as the pension fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u158	A respectable president. We agree on the importance of improving access to disabled people, and hopefully this source, which in itself does not involve any new resources, meets a certain amount of income that is seen in the equation's budget, meets a greater need in this series in a way that enables human resources to move. Regarding the innovations and the resources of pensions for investments, it is in itself only to give the pensions the authority to make such a decision. I think it's still a very modest percentage of the overall investments of the pension fund. Although this is a high total amount of money, it must be considered in the context of all the funds. It's asked how much money the state funds themselves want to cost. Of course, it is a government fund to carry out a form of passive action in which it provides payment or a tax charge and such. We've been doing research and development work here today. In this regard, we have special tax incentives, and in a certain way, a government fund is indirectly to take sides on how much he feels justified in defending for this purpose. Then we have an idea for a new fund, Korea, to be funded. Very high hopes are the success of the establishment of the fund that becomes a part of investing, where the private sector has decided to be sure of certain ideas for innovation. There are new things to this ideologies, and we hold high hopes in the public investment fund for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u159	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. It's a good thing to know, but I would have liked to see an injection as well to the mercenaries to eliminate obstacles to the disabled. But prayer is the first step. Then there are investment funds, such as Kía, but I did not get the answer to what the state is about to put on a lot of money into innovation. This is important, for if the State shows that there is a lot of money to be put into innovation, others are, of course, ready to do the same, no doubt watching much of it. We know that this is an opportunity, e.g. in film industry. There will now be a tremendous need for films because it has become kind of scarce, it has all stopped. We have shown that we have very desirable people in that sector and that we need to be really supportive of filmmaking. [[The president calls.]] I ask you, how much money will the state put into this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u160	A respectable president. We've previously introduced a plan for the fund's establishment, he's gonna be able about 2 billion on a budget. Here we are talking about adding over a billion dollars to that amount. This, then, will test the structure of your investment. We had in our original ideas that everything in the budget would be set up this year, every formality and ideas about new investments would be received into the management of the fund this year, so that investments would begin in the next year. However, it is being proclaimed that the fund is immediately funded and that it can start investing immediately this year. That is a change from what was previously planned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u161	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Foreman of finance. There are two things I'll get to come on. I take the first answer to discuss what has to do with the media. First, everyone sees that the media is in a more extreme position than ever before, including the media. ... becauseof falling into advertising sales and so forth. There's two things in this. First, especially the highest. The minister of finance does not realize that many smaller media sources could use a so - called supportive loan that is being recommended today? Is there anything else in this situation than for smaller media to fall under? At any rate, I cannot quickly see that it should not be, but it would be interesting to hear the minister's opinion of it. The other thing I want to come in on is 9th. The bill, which discusses a change in the media law, by permission of a president: In 2020 a minister is authorized by regulations to implement a special staff support to the media. Is this not the most important item offered in the bill text in terms of the freedom of a minister to set aside funds as discussed here? That's 350 million to the U.S. press. I personally see the need to form more in the law and, hence, in the work of the Committee. For good reason, the media bill has not been completed. This is because there is considerable disagreement on many aspects of it. That's the two things I want to ask the highest. Minister for. First, whether he sees any difficulty in borrowing, the amount 6 million, taking advantage of the smaller media, and the other issue facing this, whether such an open license is taken to minister in terms of the Regulation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u162	A respectable president. I don't see any reason why a media company could be involved in these support loans, since other criteria are met and the purpose of the loans being paid for management costs. There is no question that the effects of this pandemic are widespread. Here the media are mentioned about enterprises that obviously do not involve tourism or something closely linked to tourism but suffer loss of income because the economy is contracting. For these reasons, they can easily lead to the counsel. I agree with that. I made it clear in my history that here we have very open resources, open legal procedures, regarding the implementation of the Regulation for Education Minister. I find it obvious that it actually leads to the fact that if the council is to agree to cancel the proposal as it is, the Minister's plan will be quite clear, in the form of a regulations suit, for example. Of course, if you have a common understanding of how to do this by means of law and regulations, you may well wonder, " Is this really possible? ' But it is not to be taken too long to allow these things to get in the way. We're here with a sum of money, there's a formula in the text about looking at the pay expenses of our companies. I say this, that we need to finish this fast and safely, because this is a operation designed to meet today's challenges, and this is a single intervention before 2020. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u163	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's answer and agrees with what it said must be developed in such a way that the council wants more access to the rules being implemented. The other thing I want to ask the highest. Minister to reverse the payment of a valuable tax to the rural community. I'm happy to see this law very well and think it's really a good addition to the change in the law on merit tax reimbursement of work at the site in relation to the first package of action. I'm thinking of the highest. Minister to go down there, working on a community larceny? There was a law in force that guaranteed the remuneration of the valuable tax from the rural system until - well, it's stolen from me when they slipped out, but it's not long ago, so it's the form. There is a great need for construction. It's 200 million to support such projects in the job package adopted here the other day, and it's hardly even in the nose of cats in this context. [[The president calls.]] I just want to ask the highest. Minister: Would it be reasonable to assume that a system of irrigation should be adjourned under this arrangement? [[The president calls.]] It would be simple and good, and the form is known. [[The president calls.]] There are enormous and extensive projects related to this and, of course, environmentally high levels.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u164	A respectable president. Regarding the irrigation process, we arranged a special committee, which was the establishment of both the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Environment Ministry, and we considered options for this. Our decisions are perfectly clear. He's supporting the communities in this. I believe that the community will not be able to handle this, especially many smaller ones who do not have opportunities financially to attack such large projects, so the government will need support. The conclusion of a group of work that examined this was simply to take a direct scholarship. The first step was taken, like a dog. A senator pointed to the fact that he took money this year to begin this campaign. We can support ourselves for about ten years of effort, which usually requires a donation directly from a government fund on funds and if we are doing what we could even make a deal about the Union's members, we met our goals, even though we did not take the worth of the tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u165	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. Here are important measures to deal with economic effects following the viral epidemic. We in the Central Party have a positive attitude toward most of the bill. I am warning against the media, not that we are against them, not at all, but about the arrangement laid out on this vital support. I'll find out later. Let me start by reviewing what is stated on page 18. 5 in the bill discussing the continuation of taxpayers. In the government's first action pack, it was authorised for companies to postpone it in January of the next year to return a local tax on up to three payments as well as postponing their terms on a remuneration tax without any special stress. In addition, it is being expanded, and, as the bill puts it, it is planned to take the step further and to give lawmen with limited responsibility the option to postpone tax pay due to 2019 and to counter the loss of 2020 when it becomes more difficult. The operation allows companies who anticipate loss in the current year to apply for further delay in income tax payment until next year's application. This is an important situation I think mattered to. What I wanted to come on is, what then, if it could be so, when the time comes for the deadline to expire, and the public fees given to postpone? If the situation gets worse in these companies that they cannot keep their money when it comes to it, what happens? Yes, there is an obligation to have committed a tax offense. It's simple. There are fines and prison punishments. In companies that have lost almost every income and that foresee the lack of income for the next month and even the year, paying or paying taxes can be chosen between paying and paying taxes. The government has not published whether any unnecessary tax returns will be temporarily committed in the face of the situation. I think there's every reason to look at this because it's perfectly clear that some trouble will be having to pay the fees that have been paid. It's just not fair in this situation that when a viral epidemic that no one is responsible for is responsible for, you may even have been punished for trying to take advantage of the resources that are being discussed here, and then, in the day, it comes that it was not possible to deal with it. This should be examined very closely in the type of action to be considered. The government has offered additional suggestions. I emphasize, Mr. President that this is being reviewed. I also want to mention what I've mentioned before, but that's the payment process. That's a very important option in times of uncertainty. Since legal resources can be used in this situation for business and home, we do not need to go to some new level of law, which is being attempted in haste, and then there is a risk of failure, etc. There are resources that can be used, and it is a payment stop. But what needs to be cleared up is whether this situation, i.e. the virus epidemic will depend on the conditions for stopping payment. I've asked the highest. Minister of Justice to see if this is not possible, that the virus epidemic falls under the conditions of payment. There are some very strict conditions to obtain a payment stop, and such plans need to be submitted to a credible business plan, etc., and it is quite clear that these plans cannot be submitted in the situations we are today. Hence, it is only natural for this factor, the viral epidemic, and these unprecedented conditions to come under the conditions. V.E.G. A minister answered that it would be considered. The minister has provided a bill for electronic administration when it comes to various decisions made by a businessman and nothing was mentioned there. I'm the highest. Minister of Justice to review this important aspect. It is in the law, but it needs to be made clear whether these unprecedented circumstances cannot underlie that law. This bill is promoting innovation, giving the pension funds the opportunity to arrive there. It's a good thing, but I'd like to mention that it's normal for me to consider whether these pensions can't reach these operations and operations to a greater degree. While this is an excellent strategy, it is necessary to consider some way in which we might increase the benefit of the public in these circumstances so that the public can have more between the hands that would be injected into the economy. People start spending more money, buying more service, etc. This helps the economy to get back on its way, and everyone really wins by increasing the commercial power of the public. The question is, Can it be delayed, e.g. or reduce the payments on a pension fund temporarily to increase the public's financial resources. Here a change of law is needed, but there is good reason to consider the outcome of my sentence. I specifically mention it because it's a matter of innovation and the absence of the pension fund in that topic, i.e. The investment rights of the pension fund, which is part of improving the investment environment of innovation by making it easier for the pension fund to reach the institutions of these funds. It's a good law. I also wanted to introduce business support to the private media. Here is a proposed press law, No. 38/2011, which suggests that the Minister of Education and Culture will be authorised in 2020 by the Regulation to implement the legal arrangements for the financial support provided by special public media because of the widespread problem that now confronts the media as a result of the pandemic, as the bill puts it. Here's about 350 million. K. to discuss. This is a large amount, but it matches what has been discussed in the so - called media bill. Now it is clear that the media are no different than other companies that have been seriously affected by the epidemic, and their loss of income has to be met in some way from the government. It is clear, and we in the Central Party support our hearts that it will be done. However, there is a question about the process. This is actually a secretary of law. You do not know that a minister is given such extensive authority because it is very difficult to review in what way each medium is involved in receiving this support. It's natural to look at the number of employees, etc., many factors that come in there. Therefore, I believe it is unnatural for a minister to be placed in this manner. However, there is a need for rapid and effective response because the media today are particularly important in all the information we have received in connection with viral epidemics, a very important role that the media have played there. Similarly, ratings have increased, individuals are making more use of the media services, but at the same time, media revenues have been greatly contracted, advertising, etc. It is urgent to respond, but in this way, I believe that the matter is being complicated, even making it suspicious of how to find it out and to assign them to you. We've been focusing on surveillance, we've been discussing here so-called bridge loans and now the back loans and the committees have been appointed to supervise this operation, but here it is just a minister who's supposed to put in charge. This is what we believe must go much better and not work out as it's stated. Finally, Mr. President, I would like to say that there are necessary actions here in this bill, which is a very good price. It's for example. temporary payments for the pay of persons who have been under siege. That's a very important option. This should not be so that those who have had to go under the direction of the government are to see the loss of income, a government fund must come into it in some way. This law is essential. Then I wanted to say that it is important to look to the country in the event of innovation. The budget has established funding for the innovation, but it is vital that we look there in the country. It has been left out in the innovations, and it has not been at the same level as the capital area, but today, for the most part, no newcomer is important to rural society in the country. We're seeing unemployment in rural areas, such as Vikings, up to 40%, and it's very important that these innovations also ratio to the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u166	Mr. President. This bill is about a lot of good things and, for example, good things. I am very fond of the idea that, in itself, is novel and imaginative, to give companies that grew up in 2019 a chance to match up the expected and/or anticipated losses this year. It is certain that this point may become necessary for many to get over the temporary situation that we are in and that we fear will be far beyond what was expected at first. So it's very important, and I'm pretty much involved in using this point of thought. I'd also like to welcome the changes here in support of a innovation firm. I spoke a great deal in my first speech today about innovation based on already known foundations; innovation in food production and technology production, etc. I think it's a job to do. I'm going to reiterate what I said in my speech that the state should now come in with funding, either put it through an existing fund, so that it will prompt action and investment, which will lead to increased employment, because when this situation ends, we need to be prepared already with plans and services that we can direct ourselves to go and perform and to come as most of our jobs and to make the economy possible. I would also like to agree with what the first speaker said about the rights of those who are under siege. It is in nature that the burden of getting infected over one's head is heavy enough, but to worry about getting paid and living at the same time is naturally far from that good. That's why it's very good to be put in here. Like some of the others here who have spoken, I hold very close to the section of the bill that deals with the media, independent media. The bill presented earlier at the Council of Free, and the independent media was well overdue. If we were discussing the role of free and independent media in, as you say, normal condition, not the state of the state, I must at least admit personally that I don't see how an independent member of statehood can call himself independent, Mr. President. Now I'm talking about normal conditions, not the conditions that exist today. I ask: If the medium is in the same position as the person to whom he directs criticism or controls, how would you in the normal state of the public? This is unique business skills, cultural events, sports companies, etc. If things were normal, and the media bill would have come up for further discussions that occurred earlier at the council then you would have always asked those questions. You would also have asked why the State should under normal circumstances strengthen the independent media. The Kingdom strengthens as one medium of 7 billion dollars. In a year, if I remember correctly, and care for many people. Hence, the idea that the Middle Class and I had at one time expressed that the public was simply given freedom to be able to choose whatever form of forced subscriptions we have today on the Kingdom Hall. Thus, she could go to the mass medium that is chosen by men, as is the case with religious consent. But that's where I'm talking about normal conditions. Of course, as we have seen in the past few talks, the media have more to do with us now and have more important work right now to share information with us during these events. Therefore, during this period of conversation, you may well be strengthening the media so that they can get across this stage without having to, like hopefully, most other companies. But I have to admit, Mr. President, that like others, I am very concerned that a minister has a Regulation to issue 350 million to the press. Now I don't know why they do it this way. I'm beginning to suspect that the highest. A minister of education has taken care of this matter in the government rather than leave it to the council according to how these funds should be given, as we usually do when it comes to money. I can't deny it, Mr. President, and now I don't know if it's the highest. The Minister of Education sees himself in this role, that I'm in the position of the highest. Minister of education, like an elf in a Disney film, who skimmed around and spreads gold powders over the media that she approves. That's how I picture it, and I don't really get rid of that picture from my head. I think this is the point of the matter, in itself it is unnatural that a minister should have such a powerful power to take public money. That's 350 million. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, My hope is that a minister will not take this role that I previously described, expecting that when the case begins, the committee will take this part in particular for a careful consideration and a review of the criticism so that it will be puzzled by this arrangement, and the General Assembly itself will set up a framework of how this money will be distributed. There is also another aspect on this die, and it is that the media all have to live with the assurance that this money is divided between them in a way that transcends doubt and is based on certain values - I must not say, Mr. President, I know - and the distribution is based on evidence that remains anywhere. That is why I make a serious remark to the highest. In itself, a minister of education can create so many small VOLANDs by uniting money in this direction by means of a Regulation. I expect and hope that this particular point will be of great interest to the Committee because in other respects, as I have described in my previous case, there is much very good in this bill. There are a number of forward - looking billes, and with what is still a fresher thought, from the government in all this process, Mr. President, and a great poem that this point is in there. To say this, I reiterate that I expect the bill to have a thorough review on the committee. Now I say again: It would have been better if we had had had a good time to discuss this matter fully in the chamber. Now we're naturally caught because this has to happen as quickly as possible to save the economy from harm. It's never good to handle a big deal in a big hurry, as we know, there's a danger of failure. In this case, there is one built - in error that can be avoided if one puts forth effort to do so. Finally, I still want to reiterate that my opinion and beliefs are that the government should bring the opposition to the government sooner when it is prepared, affecting so many people, so large a matter. I just say again, in view of the experiences we have already experienced, Mr. President, since this situation began, that the government has corrected and corrected much of the government's affairs and made them better in cooperation with committees. So why not take a shortcut and put forth effort to have a good sense of agreement and consultation? I'm going to reiterate once more that present governmental opposition has indeed been responsible in these difficult situations, and the government has not been trying to delay matters or prevent necessary things from being carried out. On the contrary, e.g. The media rejoiced at whatever comes from that government and declared its will to support it and support what has been presented and expressed his will to make a success of it. The government has not yet felt the need or motivation to accept a good invitation, but I hope that it is even more urgent that more matters have to be taken care of. Now we, the government, and all of us here, have to stop chasing the problem. We need to get ahead of the problem and work so that what we do here right now will be of full benefit but will not be quick when things are gone. We should be ahead of that sequence of events. We can do it well. We have the authority here at the council to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u167	Mr. President. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. The Economic and Business Committee will receive this bill for implementation and inspection, we will call for reviews and I assume there will be many of them. Today we've been reacting to the initials we're dealing with, and we're working with them. As we have seen during the discussion and have noted, at the council, we have taken matters up and improved them, adjusted them, and cooperated with them, and certainly not everything has been accepted and agreed on by what the government has proposed, but some of them have been found in the bills we have already committed. Therefore, Mr. President, I would like to give a brief talk and highlight what I believe we need to make a special consideration of the committee when we start working on it. First, I'd like to mention what's called an ad by means of this prime call for a further application into innovation, and I'm celebrating it. But what I think we need to do in particular is whatever comes best with these things. Is that necessarily a peak of 600 million to 900 million, or from 900 million to 1,100 million? We need to consider whether better to do or to do both, or to increase the reference rate even more. It is expected that it will go up to 25% when it comes to research and development, reimbursement of research costs and development costs. However, there may be a better option for smaller companies to increase this share. I strongly emphasize that we are going over it carefully to the Economic and Business Committee that deals with the bill, and also whether this should be such temporary measures, referred to, when advertising these resources, innovations to the future, and the innovations need exactly the future. It will be innovation, research and development in the economy that will raise us up from the great depression we are in now, as well as our education and education, and that our education will bring further support to the economy. It is that way, Mr. President, that our professional life is too monotonous and we certainly recognize it now that our largest industry, tourism, is involved, not only in us but all over the world. But we need to recognize how much of this is of our business and how much of the nation's income has been, but now it is vulnerable. The available options and those that have been presented here today do not cover the problem of this large article. Of course, it differs according to the size of an enterprise and whether it is direct tourism, recreation, rooming, or other jobs. But the problem is really big and needs to be handled in some way. This is not done in the initials set out here today. In the conversations we've had with the highest. A financial minister has not yet established how to decide whether a travel agency will be able to operate once the epidemic has passed because tourism and its development are completely uncertain. Of course, the government needs to tell you where they want to go with this big business, and it is a responsible part of the government to make sure that they have more support for their work. This is not answered here in any way. But I'm glad that there's no further emphasis on innovation and reimburseing companies what they're further researching and developing, but I think we need to do even better in that regard. I'd like to mention, like others have done today, par. The bill that deals with authority for Regulation to implement a special business support to special media services. That's fine. It is essential to meet the individual media at this point in particular. The media are of great importance to us, especially in these times of distress and of vital importance to our government and to our community. The question we need to consider on the committee is, Is there any reason to have this authority so open? I think we need to lie down over it. Why does she have to be so open? Does the lawgiver want to put down some more lines in this regard? President. That's where I mention what's on the bill, but I want to talk about what's not on the bill as well. True, it is said of a worthwhile tax reimbursement to the rural communities. It's only extended, and it's good because it's important that our rural society get into action and maintenance in this situation, thus working against unemployment. It is necessary to do so. But I miss the lack of the gender halls that the government has proposed that both men and women are out of work and that, in fact, numbers are almost equal, which means that it leans on women because they are fewer in the labour market. But this is not done in these measures. I'll be asking for a discussion about this for what? The Economic and Business Committee, as there are many ways we can encourage business ventures in which women are large, such as in hairdressing, dressing, sewing rooms, and other items. We need to go over this on the Committee. It just cannot be considered on the part of me in the action we are implementing, many of which are very good at working against unemployment, that it is this way for women when it comes to their resources. Mr. President. I'm very worried about my rural society and I need to take on their affairs. I am happy that projects should be encouraged because of the availability of the disabled, the use of time to carry out those tasks, the necessary tasks, and their timely activities. However, some rural areas and some areas are particularly affected, and special attention should be given to certain areas. It's part of the budget bill, e.g. As for the Southnes, I can't see that there's enough there where 4 people are out of work, anyway, in Smokeytown. High to 25% unemployment is there. I can name Myrdalship, 40% unemployment. There are more of these areas in the north that have to be looked at, and in general, rural society is losing a lot of money, both as the response falls when people's income falls and when the wealth of the state is brought together, the balance is drawn together. But rural communities have legal responsibilities. They are working on an extremely important task for our children and serving them. They run preschool, elementary school, a lot of leisure activities for children, and they also care for the disabled and, in part, for the elderly. However, they are also encouraged to take action, and many of them are now in debt but are not fully aware of how they can proceed in the next few years. This is a matter we must take into consideration. We may need to take a little more time to decide how this is to be, but it is not possible to leave them behind and act as if they could go into action, wrestle with their income, and also care for all the duties we want to fulfill. The other thing, President, is that in these matters we are discussing today, homes are not specifically mentioned. We can do so in many ways. We admit that companies and companies need to be helped to cover fixed costs and no income. The same is true of a home - a fixed cost to run a home. When people get out of work, I don't talk about when they get to a basic non-employment system of 289,000, we have to take action, and we can't put our homes in such a lot of places a change in poverty. That's why we in the United States have suggested that we raise our unemployment rates. In this situation, we must do everything we can to combat poverty. We in the United States have also provided a bill for raising pension under these circumstances. I know that there are countries in the world that have done just that, rising unemployment rates, raising pension pay for both the elderly and the desperate to stimulate their private consumption. It's important to stimulate personal consumption. Of course, buying food and necessities and what is needed for the children of the home, etc. is sure to be certain. It is very important that the government now adopts the child - welfare system, which accounts for people's income since 2019 and alters the criteria so that families, children's families, who have suffered a major loss of income, can obtain pedophile benefits now when their households are in great trouble, but not perhaps next year. If nothing is changed next year, families could get child support, but even the cow has been straightened out. You have to have the courage to handle this matter and to change the criteria, even if they are temporary. Finally, I'd like to mention students. I welcome the procedures presented today to meet students in both the types of work to be made and cooperate with with states and rural groups, but also projects and summer studies and all the things that have been discussed here today. Sadly, though, not all students need jobs to support themselves and their children and to continue studying as well. We have to look at them specifically, and that's why we in the United States have suggested that they gain unemployment. And we certainly must not forget professional students who are currently in the field ministry. It must be ensured by increased funding in the workforce that the Masters can accept the studies on the contract and, although, as well as their companies, we need to consider, too, that they are on contracts, and they need to be paid. Mr. President. I've finished my case in 1st. But we will consider the matter again and again at the Assembly Hall later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u168	A respectable president. I recommend here for bill to correct the change in package travel laws and interconnected transport options. The bill suggests a temporary change in the law that includes reimbursement of packloads by means of a package decommissioned or canceled, due to the spread of the Korean virus. The warrant is for trips that were to take place between March 15 and June 30. A travel agency's permission to reimburse tourists in the form of domestic waste is thus temporary and includes delaying their reimbursement for 12 months. After 12 months, tourists who do not have a new credit card to buy a new package round may reimburse the original stock market. Two. 1st par. The bill tells you that the ownership area should clearly be owned by the package. It should be minimally the same amount of money as the payment made by a tourist for the package trip. It is important to consider these conditions, however, that these conditions are essential to the introduction of an in-lawn to the insurance protection of package travel insurance. In this regard, it is also appropriate to refer to reports on the job road and innovation websites from March 23, where the introductions due to package travel fall under the information provided by the Neytend Office which appeared on the website of the Agency on the same day on the content and content of the stockholders so that they fall under the insurance protection of the policy system. This ensures that the introduction notes published on the basis of the temporary authority proposed by a bill will be protected by package travel insurance like any other payment on a package trip. The bill is presented in the light of the condition that has developed as a result of the spread of the crown virus. The situation is serious and without condemnation, and it is important for governments to meet companies in travel services. If left unchecked, it is predictable that there will be a number of bankruptcyes. Thus, the bill is designed to reduce the risk of bankruptcy and to allow the economy sufficient to cover the most difficult combs ahead but to reimburse within 14 days, as laid down in the package laws and interconnected travel arrangements, especially on the sellers of packages. These are travel agencies that both sell trips to the country and abroad. The bill is part of the government's operations for the assistance of the economy, but it is also trying to maintain balance by ensuring that internal wastes fall under insurance insurance insurance. A respectable president. After this discussion, I suggest that the matter be passed through 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u169	Mr. President. I have a rich understanding of the position in which tourism companies are in and that this is an important operation to facilitate those companies. However, taking the rights of consumers is an enormous step here. consumers cannot choose whether to accept reimbursement or credit. I realize that insurance guarantees of which companies are supposed to have made enough for reimbursement, such as the highest level. A minister came in, including the owner's accounts, but there is also a risk for consumers that they might not be. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is it safe to assume that these guarantees are sufficient to pay the consumer possession in the event of bankruptcy? Tells you the highest. Minister of consumers taking chances? Are consumers taking chances by accepting a share instead of getting paid back? Tells you the highest. Minister for change to violate holding laws 72. g. The Constitution, as the Neythal Society counts, has been introduced today?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u170	Mr. President. To answer the last question, why? Senator: No, I don't consider this to be a violation of the Constitution's rights. First of all, because that's insurance. Second, there is no requirement. Asked if insurance would be enough for any customer of a travel agency. I can't say with full confidence that it is, but we're suggesting this change based on the best available information that could be obtained. These include: that each of the largest travel agencies with about 70% of the total in Iceland's packages, whether foreign tourists in the country or Iceland abroad, have insurance where the sum is higher than the current demand today. Here we are making a change in the law, in the law today, there is a cloudless reimbursement in 14 days, and it is quite clear that the basis for that directive is somehow smiling. No one could assume that any trip would fall down for such a long time. [[The president calls.]] But I can't agree that there's a violation of a constitution and there's insurance behind it, so the consumers are to be paid back.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u171	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, but I still worry that this is where consumers are putting themselves in an abnormal position. Are you sure you'll be assured that your ownership will be reimbursed if the enterprise of your possession is bankrupt? What happens with bankrupt companies who have not paid this assurance, as examples earlier in winter? Would it not have been more suitable, Mr. President, and made this operation succeed and even more positive for consumers to contribute, if, as was done in Denmark, simply loyalty to the State and consumers even had a choice? Finally, Mr. President, I'd like to pop into the light of today's discussion, whether it's the highest. A minister will soon offer further support for travel services. It was rather sad to listen to the presentation yesterday, but the tourist service was hardly mentioned on the name. Has the highest. Don't Ministers support the government to present procedures that really benefit tourism?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u172	These are, of course, questions that cannot be answered in one minute. It's a legal obligation to make bail. We cannot go as Denmark did because there is one common fund in Denmark. We have not built up such a fund here, but each company is obliged to make bail. That's what it's all about. A senator refers to the police, so it would be a criminal case if an enterprise is acting in that way. If there is a change in the company's position that would affect the sum of insurance, it is bound to rules today that a company should report it to a travel agency, and this will increase the amount of insurance. As I mentioned in my previous answer, I would not have suggested this change except because the information we have shown is that all the largest tourism agencies that have much of the amount of package sold in Iceland, whether it is for foreign tourists or Icelanders outside, have more than the standing demand for consumers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u173	A respectable president. We're dealing with a bill to set up a package trip and a law about it. Will we really never learn from experience? There's a retrospective law here, a retraction of people. We know this from a recent point of view about the Pension Fund when a retrospective law was set up that was then reassigned. And we're gonna do it again. Will we never learn? The worst part is that people who have been saved for trips and maybe both parties have lost their jobs. How could such a law be put in place where the court is taken from people? It must always be people's choice if they want their money back, as they're entitled to, and not the legislature to take it off.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u174	Mr. President. That's what it's all about. A senator's context of this issue is not comparable to what is being suggested here. It is true that current legislation has a clear right to consumers, they have the right to get a reimbursement within 14 days. What we're saying here is that circumstances are in a way that we suggest that changes in existing laws are allowed to be made in place of a full reimbursement. This is not the case if a customer is allowed to enter general requirements if the company is missing. In the case of these enterprises it is a legal obligation to have a special guarantee and we have clearly stated that it should depend on that guarantee. The company will not be able to touch them with insurance, so there are consumers. If an enterprise is lost, consumers will be paid back from the guarantees that each company holds on. Just as their rights are richer under the law, the companies are also offered more than the general population is going and happens. These guarantees are obligatory, and companies are unable to obtain any guarantee. This is tied up in bills, and a travel agency has a view of that position. As I mentioned earlier, each of the largest tourism agencies has a financial level that is higher than the demand today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u175	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice, but I can't accept this. I cannot live with the fact that if a person or a married couple has bought a trip, put money on it, and even lost his job today, has zero income, they should have their money for a year. They may be in dire need of them after making a brief trip to a million or more. What kind of violence is that? Why would the travel agency enjoy this? It must be minimal enough for the individuals who own this money, who have the right to get it, and who may not be able to afford it for a year. There, the stone can be taken out of the person's way, keeping money fast, which he needs necessary for something else, e.g. food or medicine. This can't be right.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u176	Mr. President. I can hear what you're doing. A senator is saying. I'm here to mention that this law is a warrant. Companies make a big deal of it and depend on good relations with customers and business relationships. If such an example were to occur where people are in this position, of course a company would be permitted and would hopefully take into account such circumstances, despite the fact that there is a authority to prevent mass failures, with consequences for jobs, etc. Travel agencies are an important link in this chain, and we are simply taking specific measures to prevent mass failure, which we do based on the information that consumer rights'rights are guaranteed to be used or reimbursed after 12 months.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u177	A respectable president. I just want to start by explaining that I have this sort of package tour in my reimbursement process, now more than two weeks. I would understand if the time to complete my refund would be extended. There's a few things I'd like to ask about the ownership notes. You're going to be allowed to cash in on the original score 12 months after the season, and if I get it right, you're going to get it back. This is actually a delay of reimbursement for up to 12 months. I see, for example. I don't want to be able to use the renovations unless it's an election until late the fall, which I don't hope it's very crazy. Another question is, could it be that way rather than taking this right away from people like that? paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, notes, has a choice to take an introduction code that may be with some petition or such as, or be reimbursed immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u178	Mr. President. Of course, since the beginning of this situation, companies have offered reimbursement instead of reimbursement. It's been going a long way. I understand from corporate leaders that it is better to invite foreign tourists into the country or to postpone a journey and a book than to do the same with the rest of Icelanders who travel outside. It's not a scientific assessment, but this is what I hear. Of course, I also hope that an enterprise will place on top of some supplement, an additional amount of money, on the journey that was purchased. But this is, of course, a warrant, not all companies will take advantage of it. Some companies have already reimbursed, others not, and the companies have had a small success in replacing reimbursement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u179	A respectable president. The question about what happens after that 12-month period is needed if you have an account, are you paid back? Second, if this is a warrant for a manager or a small sale to repay a tourist, it is probably not a great incentive to offer an introduction with some additional form of possession, but it would be if there was a possibility of reimbursement immediately or deposit. It would also not require rights, it would really be an increased license if an introduction was offered with any request that would be reimbursed after 12 months if it did not get useful. I got one, for example. An invitation to reorganize a trip, and it went on in November or something like that, it wasn't even a year, there's no way to use it. These remuneration ideas were very strange, and a person suspected that it was just a little cheating on the package travel papers with these messages on credit, etc., for a short period of time, so you didn't have anything to do with it. But if you don't use the deposit code, and if it had been offered a petition, do you get the petition back in 12 months?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u180	Yes, if a consumer or a customer has not used the possession code within the 12 months, there is no clear right to repay it. The aim is, in effect, to provide space and relaxation to companies who are faced with the need to reimburse the number of trips that have a major impact on their financial resources. But what is not to be forgotten in the bigger picture is these special guarantees that the companies cannot get into, where consumers are guaranteed for that amount. So even if these companies eventually run out, which we hope they don't, it's at least so that the consumers taking over today will get it reimbursed from the deposit that is in the accounts.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u181	President. A great protest by the National Society has hardly overlooked us members of the Parliament, especially us members of the council who are sitting at ease. Business committees, or consumers themselves, where the organization including They claim that it is not an option for homes to cover corporate financial problems and creditors in bankrupt companies to be worthless. They will likely be relevant if this is true of the companies selling packages that will fail. The consumer groups refer there to the cloudless rights of consumers, which we agreed on at the General Assembly just over a year ago, with the same law as this. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of it, how will this cloudless justice of consumers be kept? V.E.G. A minister has considered this in his case, but I would like to receive a clearer answer and receive it even more. If the insurance money of each travel agency is determined by a minister, compare 26. .............. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u182	Mr. President. I took it to the conclusion that corporate deposit is of no value to consumers. It's simply not right. Under normal circumstances, enterprises are worthless, but in this situation they are certainly worth something because the company has a responsibility to make bail. Even if companies are running low, the shares will depend on this special insurance protection so that consumers will be reimbursed from the guarantees that each company has an obligation to have. Insurance levels are based on a set algorithm that, in simple form, aims at the scope of 2019 and 2020 accounts, which are naturally very variable. Therefore, there was a part of the work that led to the proposal made in the bill to review the position of these enterprises, particularly larger companies, because the majority of the business is happening there. The amount of insurance that we have is higher than the demands that are open to us. [[The president calls.]] The value of corporate bankruptcy is not right in this case because it is indeed loyalty.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u183	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Now, the law, as I entered in my previous answer, is based on a bill adopted by the council just over a year ago, on the package trips and the interconnected travel arrangements. The Nettos feels that changing the law may not be likely to create a requirement for improvement. I'd like to hear an opinion. Ministers on whether this situation could develop that the State is building a requirement for improvement by changing the law over and perhaps more likely it would have been better, and what would the highest opinion have been. A minister is about to go some kind of reconstituted route, since consumers would have options on the other hand for reimbursement, whether it might be a more convenient way to offer the consumers a choice. This may reduce the risk of creating a government requirement for improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u184	Mr. President. First, to answer the first question, it is clear that a proposal of 1. 1st par. it is contrary to the clear regulations of the directive. It may include violation of national commitments under the EEA Convention. There is a possibility, but of course there are certain conditions that need to be proved to be harmed, etc. So that I dare not say of it, whether of it or not. Regarding the second question, by the end of March, we made it clear that depositors fell under insurance protection because we went as far as we could as far as possible to encourage people to accept it. That is what other countries have done, trying to get consumers to do it. It would have been good if it had been enough, for consumers to have taken over more, so this would not have had such an excessive impact on the companies. [[The president calls.]] In time, though, that was not enough. That's why I propose this here, simply to prevent a mass failure in this kind of travel service because the consumers are committed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u185	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. This issue is quite different and many tore views, e.g. whether the rights of the citizens are standing above them in this way. Admittedly, this is a law of 1st. includes a package trip that will not be started between March 15 and June 30. March 15 is now over a month ago, so the journeys will be at least not gone. This is therefore a retrospective change. I'm not going to spend the biggest powder to discuss possible benefits in the sense that the change will not last for a constitution and such. But what I want to do is that you really understand the problems we face and travel agencies are facing that you cannot fulfill your promises. That's kind of impossible what we all see. But for the national part, i.e. The travel agencies that have sold to the Icelanders travel abroad, which will not be gone, will be able to raise a few questions. First, if we assume that people would say: "Okay, I'll settle for a credit card and I'll go to a year. But what's the trip that's going to be this year? Is it the same trip they offered? It is now, for example. The fact that the crown's gang has changed by 15%. It is 15% more expensive for a travel agency now to take Icelanders to foreign lands than it was when they were sold and paid. What guarantee does the consumer have that he will get as much a journey as he bought? [[Take it up to one by one.]] It's possible. Second, there's something else that I think is extremely important in this context. Me and the Icelanders are very travelling, and a lot of us are going abroad, at least Once a year, and many families and people travel abroad during the summer season. Now they won't be gone. Governments encourage us to travel within the country. That's great. I'm sure that a lot of people are thinking, " Now I'm just going on a nice trip in the country instead of the trip I would have gone to a foreign country and use the money I get paid to go back and be in a hotel, and I don't usually do it when I travel in a country. ' Most people, of course there are exceptions, you see, they don't have two vacations in the same summer, they don't have an inland land and then travel within the country at the same time. You have to choose either one. If they're stuck with the fact that they haven't been able to go abroad and they only have a possession, they decide to stay home in Iceland and not travel within the country because they can't afford it. I feel that this will conflict with the goals we are trying to set, to encourage us to travel within the country. Third, when tourism starts and begins to recover, and you have the guts to travel and all that, is that the best thing we do for these companies is to go on these sides of the embargos? There'll be no money in their box. I think there's a real problem here. I'll take the will for the job, and I understand it all, but I feel that it runs into one another's corners and one goal is shot down by another, and it's gonna happen when it's not going to work. I would have thought it would be wiser to try to do something else. It is noted in the report with the bill that in some places there are other ways to go. Of course, if they survive and if they do not survive, traveling agencies may have years to work through this pile. But I think this approach is, unfortunately, because I know that I try to do this with a good mind, not likely to yield the results of the target. Not only may there be substantial defects in the legitimate method of action that may require a wide range of debates and lawsuits, but then I think that this will not result in the results of the planned process. I suggest that the committee who is treating the case take a very close look at this and at the highest point. Similarly, a minister to take a good look at this, since it seems to me that all of this needs to be over again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u186	Mr. President. You cannot help but come up for a moment and express yourself on this strange subject, for this is strange, as was a good point in the speech of both. paritaprevir Jón, the son of Valdimarsson, before me, and there are many sides of it. This, of course, is a complete delay in the quality of the tourist companies involved. You wonder, " Is that the way? ' A senator mentioned that buying the demands is not simply a better way. I'd also like to wonder here why in the country, the consumers, the people of the country, are going to lend the travel agency. Why does the State not rather lend money to these travel agencies rather than to become some sort of creditor? There are 350 million people in the media and money in the other direction, and this is the case we've seen here. Why are some funds not made that the travel agencies can collect or that are at least insured by financial resources, i.e. that they do not have to give up, but the consumers get what they want. If the minister is so confident that he will not be destroyed, it may also be wondered that the state will guarantee that those consumers who want to receive these shares will be replaced by the government. Of course, those whom they wanted only their money, others who want credit notes, but the state guarantees what matters in all of this. We all understand that the travel agencies are in trouble, Mr. President, but we have little understanding that they are the customers, the consumers, who are supposed to carry the risk and pay the bill. It would be best for the state to stair into the same as it is to destroy all society today. Why not there? Why let the people who have spent their savings or their funds and possessions lend them as much as they will clearly lend them? I don't think it's a bad case, I don't like Congress, and I need at least that. to change it considerably during the council if there is to be some justice in this. In fact, it is a little forethought that if a person has bought a trip, a travel agency can just decide to give him a deposit instead of the money he has a right today. I agree with those who have spoken that it must be at least question whether changing the law is going to work again. A respectable president. I reiterate what I said from the beginning: this case has to be changed, there has to be some sense in it because it's crazy just the way it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u187	Mr. President. In this case, it is very easy to join in with some who have discussed it. It seems so unthinked, and you may first begin to wonder why this government always finds some means of putting the interests of an enterprise ahead of consumer interests. But there's also the wrong thing to do. You ask me, who's that for? What interests are being tried to defend? Why is it impossible to protect this interests in a more conventional way, e.g. by the coming of the State, as has been the case elsewhere, rather than by consumers working as credit institutions, such as this. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson mentioned just a minute ago? Of course, this will take on consumers, and it is true to say: This is not to say that consumers will generally come out on plains because we know that the consumers will grow old. When airlines have made enough money to pay even high 600 euros for flights because of delay, they are too often offered even 1,200 euro privileges to avoid giving away money that has come from them. They know there's always some loose seat. They feel this way, though, that it is better to give 1,200 euros of credit. They also know that consumers may very often be unable to make use of their real estate when it comes to it. I have personally missed an opportunity like this, yet I found the owner's possession rather attractive for once. There are, of course, other things. Many things have been mentioned, insurance has been mentioned, and you will ask: " Wouldn't it be normal to change the insurance arrangement so that it could be collected more easily? These are laws that we agreed on a year ago, and here we may be able to say that there's a certain flaw in that law because it worked out if a business went bankrupt, but there may be cases like this when we just want to prevent bankruptcy. There's been some of the reform requirements, and now there's been a retraction, I'm not going to extend it. But let's do another call. It's not just about Icelandic consumers. It's also about foreigners, foreign parties, often in European countries, who have bought packings on land through Icelandic parties. And it's a question of whether this will resist Europe's rights, whether any problem will arise. But this may also be a bit stupid, but it's not a good land presentation that we are somehow somehow cutting the rights of consumers in other countries again in this way. At least I wouldn't feel so much fun if I was in a position like this on my way to some country. I feel that if you look past the flaws on this case, you have to come into the other guy's office, and there are many of them, and you look instead at the intent. This is a question of how we try to meet the situation of the currently inherited tourist service. How do we save our tourism? We've watched the situation over the past few months, and there are many, especially in tourism itself, who have been waiting for the government to do something that could possibly save their status. I think I'm right about this as the only thing that's ever happened so far. There's a rather strange situation, I must say. There may not be a particularly excellent recommendation on the actions of the government. Of course, there are general procedures that tourism companies can take advantage of. But when we're talking about this particular project to save the tourism service, it's this, I think, the only thing. I hope someone will correct me if I've missed something wonderful. It may be good for us to try to think this over. What could you do instead of going that way? Maybe we could, for example. Try to encourage some of the circumstances in which these companies could get themselves out and create new business ventures? It may be difficult when things are closed. I mentioned earlier today in unsupervised inquiries to the highest level. Secretary of state that there are certain routes available. We know, for example. that many countries are doing quite well in preventing disease. We also know that there are many countries that have been called green areas where there are only so few or even none left, and I'm calling Greenland and Faeroe Islands in that context. Not that there are very large tourist markets, but there are other countries. The question is, Could it be possible to create some kind of encouragement, create a two - sided agreement with those countries, try to create a basis for people to travel between those countries with good diseases and good conditions? It could even go further, as I mentioned earlier today, and just take advantage of the fact that we have shown that we are able to reach 2,000 people a day in Iceland, and no doubt they could be increased. But now, because we are successful in removing the virus, we may not have to hold about 2,000 people a day inside the country. Then it might be possible to make use of the ability we have smart contracts, but it would probably have to be discussed with a number of people. But it's just a solution to try out everyone who comes to the country when they land and get results that same day, like most Icelanders. I know that many people living in countries where it's impossible to get a test would at last go to Iceland if they knew a Covid test was involved. Maybe it would have to be paid for something, some sort of a return fee, good and good. But think about it in such solutions. Try to find ways to make it possible for the companies in this business to make new money rather than try to get their income on the consumers somehow. I think it's a much more healthy approach. To tell you the truth, I don't understand why we haven't seen such ideas from the government because time has been enough and there is a great need.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u188	A respectable president. We'll discuss this judgment-free bill on the change in package travel laws and interconnected travel forms, reimbursement. I have to say, as it is, when I first saw this bill, I got kind of speechless. You know, if you were in a mood, you'd just stand mute here for the next 15 minutes over that bill. Of course, it would be absurd, so I'm going to point out the natural and free doubt, complete doubt, of putting backtrace. When are we going to this assembly to learn? I can't believe we're going to restore law once more. We know that only one person who gets a job and goes to trial, we know he'll win that case, and he'll get hit by his fingers. It is so insane to expect to offer any people entitled to reimburse the legal right to receive their package trips and what they have invested in money, to get a credit card instead. It's just a trade, that's all. It is not even an opportunity to offer. I say for what I'm saying, I don't know what to say. If we have sense here, we'll take this bill and tear it down, drag it back, we'll stop. Bring a bill in which the State assumes responsibility, not to place ordinary people, who may have been collecting for two, three years before a trip to the country, in a position where they could obtain some deposit instead of a reimbursement of their rights. This is ridiculous, and I don't believe we're going to let this go through again and make one more trip through the council. I just can't believe it. I hope that we will see to it that the bill is retracted, that something else will be done, and that the people will be reimbursed. I don't know if they have to help the travel office, but then the state will just come into it. It's far more sensible than being sending it to people who made it one thing of themselves that they planned a trip, paid on it, and expected to leave perhaps during the summer. Now to say, "No, we're gonna give you credit notes, and you're just gonna have to go sometime in the rest of the time. There's nothing to be said about it for people. It is highly unlikely that it will be suitable. People are not supposed to be up against a wall, they're not supposed to be invited for it. That's right, and it's supposed to be allowed to take full advantage of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u189	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion, but I'm assuming that this proposal will be taken into account in a thorough review by the Committee. It sounds like everyone here who has spoken, both governments and governments. But I have a complete understanding of the problems and status of a traveling office, and, of course, some effort must be made to meet them as many as are in these difficult situations. The government might have considered a donation and a contract package two to take responsibility for the position that exists but not to question it to the general public. The only thing that's not supposed to be available in this operation is to let the public pay the bill. I can say with what. paritaprevir Jón Valdímdar's son Valdimarsson referred to this bill as being full of paradoxes. What's a hundred thousand dollars worth after one year in the Icelandic economy? First of all, that's a good question. In recent years, you will say that you will likely be less worthy of it. I think we also need to bear in mind that in this regard there may be a certain possibility of reputation if there is a question about how we are involved in consumer protection in Iceland. It's just that once in a year you got a brochure from View and Sunna through the hatch and went on trips like this, never knowing any other travelers but maybe just by the pool bar. Today, tourists around the world interact with social media, accounting pages, and so forth, and it is simply not good if we are to be informed about changing rules, even under such difficult circumstances. I can say with what, too. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson, who throws up a picture of the common people who work together every month to make their dream tour. I don't think that's a single example, I think it's in general. People need to work on expensive outings, long - awaited trips to the future. Now she's upset and should be stuck with a check that may not be suitable for her after a year. People may not be able to afford to use it after a year, so I don't talk about being left home where there may be a need for money because most of Iceland's people, very many of them at least, live under very poor terms and impaired circumstances during this epidemic. I'm just hoping that the committee will take seriously the comments that have been made here, and the state will show the worth of the job and pay for it, but it will not be on people who wanted to go but will not make it out of these circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u190	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on deck. 1257, No. 728. It's a bill for a song on the Food Fund written in my Ministry. The bill suggests that new funds are being set up to strengthen valuables in the production, production and marketing of food from agriculture and fishing grounds, which are promised to feed fund. In addition to funding the fund, we are looking to promote innovation and to promote valuable creation to promote the competitiveness of Icelandic food production. It will also be possible to support products development, which may be important, especially for market applications and particularly in foreign markets. The preparation of the Food Fund can be attributed to Congress resolution No. 40/149 of the Food Safety and Protection Programme adopted in 149. It commissioned the government to implement various measures aimed at promoting food security, securing the protection of livestock stocks, and improving the competitive status of domestic food production. Among the measures were the setting up of a fund, focusing on the growth of innovation in domestic food production. The proposal for the establishment of the Food Fund has already come to this council. There were plans to develop the fund as part of a broad bill to legalise various changes in the food law due to the implementation of EEA regulations, and this became the law of No. 144/2019. However, laws on the fund were issued from the bill in the treatment of the case at a job station where it was thought that they needed further work. There was a significant time press in the matter of U.S. commitment, so I had a clear understanding of how things had happened. A fall. The views observed during the political treatment of the current bill have been reviewed. In the fall, and I have even. They are expected to be involved in the establishment of the Food Fund by obtaining the right of each party at its own level in the management board of the fund. The production of the bill is now a part of the official process of promoting the economy as a result of the events that are not attributable to the platform and the pandemic situation caused by the crown virus. My Ministry has taken a number of specific measures in order to minimize negative effects on Icelandic agriculture and marine soils for a short and long period of time because of this situation, which has created the main goal of creating a strong resistance during the time of the situation and the routine of the times. Is the institution of the Food Fund one of the more important subjects we look to in that regard. It is a regular pleasure to relate that the government's proposal has decided to suggest that there will be a significant increase in money spent on the work field of the new fund, some 500 million. K., on the current budget year. As far as I'm concerned, and hopefully more people here at the Senate Hall will do just fine. In addition to this difference over the next year, the fund will be added the money currently funded by the AVS account in the fishing road, which has about 250 million dollars. K. for an annual provision, and in the product fund of agriculture, which has about 150 billion. K. for a provision. The merger of these funds, each with a cost of about 20 billion, will have a number of savings in business. K. every year. A respectable president. In the previous treatment of the establishment of Food Funds, the ancient perspective on the history of the Production Fund and the AVS Fund was quite clear. Perhaps much of that was wrong in the discussion. Yet, as the poet of our Icelanders, who was the greatest citizen of the world, it still does not show what is new. So it is in many respects. At the same time, we must try to look ahead and deal with the challenges we face in the coming years. The manufacturer's funds were established in 1966 and have brought about many of the needs of agriculture. Landing, gardening, foresting, farming, and the breeding of stocks have been supported, as well as supported by farmers. The fund's history may reflect some developments in the agricultural process. Was the funds most important to cope with overproduction in the 1980's. Although the early 1980's is not among the most successful public action recommendations in Iceland, this was the result of efforts to promote more support for rural activities. Perhaps it is easy to sit down in judgment for a long time later. The work was short - lived, and it is known that many tourism agencies originally had some support from the fund. That could be of great importance and encouragement. In recent years the fund has been devoted mainly to two groups of projects, which include the use of agricultural research and development projects and, on the other hand, the innovation of jobs on farms for rural development. However, this need to be considered that the funds of the fund are severely limited. In 2008, the fund was cut down by about 90%, so it was almost dead. In stages, contributions to him have been made only about 150 million. K., as mentioned earlier, amounts to about 1% of the total agricultural production by the state. Is this sobering, especially in view of the need for new farming, especially food production? Before I take up a course that involves suggesting the establishment of a new Food Fund according to the bill, I'd like to take some words from the AVS fund. The fund was established in 2003 under some special circumstances when the fishing industry and the fish industry felt that they could gain support for innovation. This has blessedly changed for the better, and I refer not only to the AVS's activities but also to the Technological Development Fund, which has devoted substantial resources to projects in the marine field and in the fish industry. Much explains the fine results of the Icelandic fishing industry, and it is clear that the development of the AVS in its time was of great importance. This gave rise to research and development, providing both better use of fish in Iceland and increasing value for each kilogram given. This was in harmony with the development of a powerful fishing service. The numbers speak for themselves. Recently, when I was 461,000 tons and 2017 when the product was nearly half - smaller, I was assigned to work for the Ministry to compare the prices of cods between 1981. During this period, export costs more than doubled, but the price of cod products in the world market needs to be corrected. However, the conclusion is that 35% of the increase in export price of cod products from Iceland during this period will not be explained by a general global increase in cod level. This example, and these calculations show that Iceland and I have achieved great success in comparison with other countries in developing our marine waters and creating greater value. A respectable president. It is interesting, indeed, to wonder at how agriculture and fishing have developed and in what way the government's support of projects through research and innovation has become useful. At the same time, it is important to look to the future and see where we are heading and how we can face new challenges. Food production faces many challenges in the years to come. In particular, there are the effects of climate change, the increase in humanity, the environment, and the production of Witnesses. There is also the need to strengthen smaller producers to develop goods and contribute to the use of goods. How we can expand our valuables here in Iceland in both fishing and agriculture is a real challenge for the coming years. This has many social significance for the general public and may be attributed to the importance of food security and food security, i.e. The wholesome food supply will continue to be assured. As an overview of the bill discussed here, it was. A fall into operation with representatives of the National Farmers Association of Iceland and the European Union. At the same time, it was consulted with the Directors of AVS Research Funds and Production Funds, obtained information, and sought their views on the emphasis of the new fund. Unquestionably, this work will be useful to the first global policy for the fund. In this field it was considered that during the development of the policy, several emphasis could be seen in areas of greater value of food production, new opportunities for market attendance and awareness, biotechnology, as well as smaller projects. The project was considered for short-term producers as well as projects that could be supported to make fuller applications for further support from Food Funds or other public funds. The bill also shows that other policy measures will be used in the framework of focus and policy for the Food Fund. Here's what I'd like to say, at my Ministry, the work of Maturo is in Iceland, including... working to strengthen the infrastructure of food for travel services and to promote activities that promote interest in Icelandic food culture and demand for local and regional assessments. This project ends at the end of this year, and it is important to follow the good work that has been done there by participating in all parts of the country. It is important to ensure continued products and services in food - related branches, focusing on Icelandic raw materials and support for food pioneers, both for the sea and for the country. At that time, my initiative was to start a food policy for Iceland. It is important that the Food Fund take into account the emphasis and action that will be made available. I know that among the main activities for a valuable creation, in fact, the food policy is that a new food reserve is being started. It shall be aimed at supporting innovation, product development, increasing value, sustainableity and increased competitiveness of food production. Thus, the establishment of the Food Fund has also been discussed in the field of food policy. I hope work on Iceland's food policy will be over soon. A respectable president. I will close my speech with a few words to the bill's text. Since the bill is simple, it is designed primarily to provide sufficient sources for further activity in a new fund. The principal role of the fund, order in his administration, duties and responsibilities of the administration is recommended, as well as the authority for the implementation of measures of distribution and more. When the bill is partly based on the rules of the AVS Fund, as well as on laws relating to other public funds. Of course, I'm prepared to take a closer look and discuss some of the elements of the bill below. The bill's earning effect on the bill for the state funds is discussed in commentary on the bill, but I have already seen that it is funded and the funds it will be contributed to his price during the 2020 budget year. By the way, I refer to what is said. A respectable president. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the comments that follow the bill, which give a detailed explanation for its contents. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u191	Mr. President. As I have often been involved in this program of public speaking, there are tremendous opportunities to increase the production of food in the United States and just as eco-efficiency and diversity of production. To do this, we have tremendous opportunities here in Iceland, using the tools to form a geothermal, especially the lowest of which we have very much, and just as much as we use the extraterrestrial heat that becomes available in our geothermal activations. Indeed, they are the joyful steps that have been taken recently to open up industrial modes and I really hope that there will be a future in it. I think it's just a very exciting opportunity, and we've talked about it before. We in the United States are glad that more money is being put on the increase in food production and that it should be given special emphasis on innovation as we have spoken. It is also positive to promote and improve the food production environment in Iceland. But why start a new Food Fund instead of strengthening the already existing ones? V.E.G. Before today, the prime minister mentioned it in a talk that this fund would hold things differently than has been done in the custody of the older funds that are being laid down here. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to clarify it even more. How does this fund differ from previous funds? What's up with putting these funds in one? And in this context, I ask, "How does the Minister foresee the business of this new fund? ' It is said that the government can decide how this will happen, but does a minister have some preconceived ideas about what it will be like?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u192	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. In this brief discussion that has now been going on, the question is, Why are we turning this into one fund? That's not a new idea. It was made up of an action program or arrangement adopted by the Generals here by 54 joint votes last June, which were directly decided and committed to bringing this fund together the AVS and the Manufacturer's Fund. Then a man went through the discussion and presented all the evidence with it. Then, during the conquistador of this arrangement, the following appeared in the opinion of the employment committee when she gave the matter to the council, word - for - word, dignified president: However, the more part highlights the continuing work of preparing the Food Fund according to what is stated in the above synonym. So it is intervening in the process. The big part of this is that we may be spending overexperimental costs of two funds, and there are fences between these funds, naturally, because they are independent. I think it would be good to look to the extent to which food production is supported in the country. We look forward to being a food - producing land, as we have been for years, strengthening all the support we give in there because the challenges we face are constantly rising. I believe the will of the council in the spring of spring, when this resolution was agreed, including... It is focused on uniting strength to meet and, more importantly, the challenges we faced when we made them a very controversial one. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u193	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, and I hope that he will answer my question about how he provides for his future business in the fund. But there is something else that raises questions and doubts as to whether this is really an increase to the future. I think it is extremely important for food production in Iceland to have a strong innovation fund to look for in order to create new valuables and new jobs in this article. I agree with the highest. Ministers that there are huge opportunities for food production in Iceland. That is why it is so important that we are here talking about the real increase to the future. This is shown in an article of the highest order. A minister who appeared in the Morning Press this morning that 500 million funds will be set up. K. This year and next year's work will run out the contributions made in the agricultural industry and the AVS Fund. So I ask the highest. Ministers to see if it can be understood as the sole donation in the fund next year, i.e. would it be worth 500 million more next year? That would certainly be a good thing to do. And because we have time, as there is an unexpected less discussion about this than I expected, I'd like to ask about the administration of the government. It's interesting to me that it's arranged for four parties, and two of them are at the highest level. Minister himself commands. What's the big deal? Ministers to check on their administrations?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u194	A respectable president. First of all, how I can picture the fund's business. I don't really have any ideas about that. We have an arrangement for these two funds today, and we have more funds saved in various parts of the system today. It can be considered in some way, so it will all come to one place in one government. I'm open to all this. This will only be part of it and the future policy, provided it is approved, which I expect because this case is in complete harmony with the firm will expressed in the release of the Council of June 19, last year. Hv. A senator asks what kind of funding will be done. The next year or the next year's budget is not available, but of course I trust that this contribution will be partly or overall repeated into this fund and will, of course, contribute it. It's a huge change in donations in there. At the same time, we are discussing changes in the Ministry's Subcommittee called Matis, where the Ministry is spending an additional 400 million for new projects. This is what I think needs to be examined in context, and I strongly believe that the world's food production situation calls for us to go through all these factors. The result, perhaps with 800 million in this combined fund, is a huge leap and will be talking to the policies that the government has in store for food policy aimed at establishing our policy and focusing on the coming years in this area so important to us Icelanders.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u195	A respectable president. We'll talk about the Food Fund. As unhappy as I was with the bill we talked about here last time, I'm happy with this, especially because it's where we're finally dealing with it, hopefully taking the first step in becoming sustainable with food production. The situation in our society today shows the need for this to happen to us. But there's one thing that makes me a little speechless in the bill, that's all. We're talking there about 500 million. E.B., it may be nothing small, but let's put it into context with what was earlier this evening, about innovation, and 1% of the Pentateuch's holdings, 50 billion. It's only 1% of it, so it's a small amount, but it should be a much larger amount. I'd like to ask the minister if he hopes to get some money-created party to do this. It tells itself that since the Dutch can produce huge quantities of vegetables and have greenhouses and everything, we should be able to do the same. There has become an abundance, and there has been a good development, such as. In freezing vegetables and other things, we should be able to produce far more and in a very practical way; I don't talk about if we can sell vegetables and other electricity at similar prices and scales. It would only be better for the electricity to go to them right away because it's eco-friendly production, more eco-efficient than most of the industry is producing. I'm asking a minister if he doesn't count that there will be a lot of money to be made in this and that he will do well in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u196	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I welcome that attitude. A senator shows the matter, happy to share our views on the need and makes these changes in the bill a new step toward promoting our sustainability in the production of these factors that are so important to us. That's 500 million. K., to me, there is a tremendous growth in existing things. I think 150 million. K. financing into the agricultural industry is low. It is low on the basis of the importance of the production below. There's a lot more coming in. We've seen in the AVS fund, now holding funding somewhere in the range of 250 million, that it's being used by means of the high level of resistance coming in from the fishing industry or technology companies. We've done quite a good thing since 2003, when this fund was formed, in growth, in technology, through the AVS Fund. I expect that with this new fund we can work on and on because against the 500 million that the government is adding will bring in funding for projects. I know only of the ideas that have been around a great improvement in these matters. The newest ideas on this subject are in the Elf, and there are big - interest people in it. I also know ideas in the north, in the high - temperature areas there, and in the areas of energy. I think this one's a fund that can live up to the ideas and plans that are going on there, and that we'll be the stronger food producers after some time than we are today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u197	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers and I cannot help but agree with him, even as we look to how fast the trend is, for example. Just fishing. We've come to use all the materials so much better, like blushing as bandages and all kinds of stuff. Idea flights are not missing. I'm not worried that both farmers and others can't get ideas and get things started. This is what we need now because we may be putting too much trust in the tourism industry, as we have seen and trusting that there are more tourists and they should use our products. I think we need to focus on making the best use of our products in all ways and therefore also preventing food waste, which, unfortunately, is a small package. These big ideas about a giant greenhouse are great ideas. Of course, then, these buildings also need to be designed to withstand the commercial weather. There's been a bit of a problem. I'm not afraid we can't, if we want to, get huge. We know for ourselves that vegetables produced in Iceland are different from vegetables from what we're importing. I'll find at least The difference, there's no difference. I can't say for others, but the quality is good, and the ideas are enough, so I support this whole mind, and we have to make sure we spit and put more money in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u198	A respectable president. I appreciate those words. I agree with what. A senator who makes food production in Iceland is an enormous opportunity. We have shown this only in the fact that we are moving out our seafood products to a foreign market, and we stand, thisting nation, the fierce competition on the market. I allow myself to claim that the AVS Fund has some share in the changes and developments that have occurred there, e.g. Improved use of any fish to be drawn to land. But the main part of this is the companies themselves, who have actually done a great deal of technological and knowledge development. Likewise, whether we look to domestic or foreign parishes, we have tremendous opportunities for farming. I mention, for example. Icelandic milk products's application at a foreign market today, the strip, where huge good things are being accomplished. We have a more difficult supply of meat products than we have been able to export certain aspects of the vegetable product and could certainly do more of it, I'm not talking about increasing the production in developed vegetables or climatics or anything like that about more internal consumption at the expense of this same product's import. So there are opportunities. This bill is a factor in supporting and creating resistance to the collapses of the Icelandic economy, and I welcome all support to that plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u199	Mr. President. I'm glad we don't raise the money, as it seems to be expected, in this new fund, that there's 500 million that can't be donated. K. to the innovation, research and development of agricultural and marine habitats, thus promoting these basic activities. However, I have some comments and wondered a few points in view of the contribution of this bill. First of all, the establishment of this fund, the Food Fund, is not new. It was anticipated that such a fund would be formed earlier in the winter than in the provincial board in December. was the law for the establishment of the Food Fund removed from the current bill for treatment. And for what reason? I wonder why the time is now? What is the need for this fund now in April if it was not considered to be time for some reason in December.? As everyone knows, we're fighting as a nation, and the whole world, indeed, is fighting an epidemic. And then this bill comes up, bill to topic like what was cut out here four months ago. I wondered: " Is this virus epidemic the reason to come here repeatedly with plans to set up a so - called Food Fund that was cut down here four months ago? It's my first remark, whether this is a new opportunity to get this bill through. Of course, I agree with the highest degree. A minister to provide additional funding for research and development in both of these articles, in order to make it available. I'm glad to contribute 500 million. K. in increased field testing. I'm also worried that this bill should lay down the current fund, i.e. The agricultural industry and the AVS research fund. These funds will be history if the bill becomes legal. One carried a fishing road, and the other took care of agriculture. Of course, I am concerned about this because of the nature of these two articles, basic engineering, agriculture, and fishing grounds. I'm worried about where the sky and sea, Mr. President, is between the situation in these two articles. In the second article, it has been very successful and has developed rapidly and has been very powerful in evolution and innovation since then noted in many parts of the world, and it is by the seabed, while agriculture is being formed. It's very important, and I'm glad, of course, that the bill assumes that the switch between these sectors will be similar to the current sector. But it is very important that agriculture is properly maintained throughout work, research, development, and innovation. There's nothing to relax about. The article is facing serious challenges, but the opportunities are open to them. That's what we need to work on. It must be done wholeheartedly. About dropping these two funds, so I'm done with it now, I'm here with the opinion of the Committee of the Jobs from December, which says: The EEA pointed out that the Manufacturer Fund played a vital role for rural and rural areas, but many of the funds strengthened fell outside the field of Feeding Fund, as defined in [the local] bill. Did you find that about 50% of the distribution charge to farmers' pioneers... I'm worried about this, if this is going to change. I'm worried that under the hat of a new fund, a Food Fund, this could change, as if they were worried about in December, four months ago. A second question, but to the committee in December, the following was pointed out: ▪ The Committee pointed out that the fund was assigned to a role according to a Framework Convention on the General Jobs of the Agriculture and, for example, the Agency's work programme. would be part of his review of the deal. This work should be in accordance with the agreement's arrangement to take place in 2019 but not yet under way. Has anything changed since then? Is this work done since December or how to do that work, which was one of the reasons the bill in December did not become legal? Also, I worry about running into this project, which is good in many ways, especially with increased financial resources, in many ways, that is why. Of course, it is strange and odd that the situation today in society is new to bring and repeat some game that was made back by men four months ago, whether to use the opportunity, whether it is the reason, or whether this contribution can not be made, these 500 million, into the current fund. A lot of questions arise, considering this bill, whether or not you're running around. I'm also worried about that, Mr. President, as well. A senator asked about the past, about the vegetables and the garden, what would happen to her, and that she wasn't under it. I'm concerned that no special contributions should be made to further research, development and innovation in gardening, at least not in this fund, and whether there's anything special I've missed, which is expected to slide to the garden. I may be mistaken. Finally, I'd like to mention one part of a agricultural field, I, whose name is Foresting, whether it's not under there. [[Case in: I think it's at the Environment Ministry.]] It's with the Environment Ministry. Of course, it needs to be strengthened too. And whether the government has not -- now I speak as if I have come to answer - assumed to promote that project in some special way, but I do not expect the Minister to answer it here. But that's how I pondered it when it's presented. I want to reiterate the situation of these two articles. It is the heavens and the sea between the facilities of fishing companies, many of which are very powerful and very effective, and the whole agricultural field, consisting of small units, weak units. The society needs real support if it's going to be there. You really need to watch it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u200	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate's speech and good. I understand the approach that he normally has on this precaution, if we can call it that way. They have been present and present at this discussion last year, and they are understandable because, as a matter of fact, they do. A senator brings up here and brings out fine differences in size and capacity, financial volumes, etc. I stress it in all discussion of the matter that from the very beginning it has been emphasized that this position in the processing of the matter needs to be maintained. I am convinced that in the position we are now in connection with the competitiveness of the Icelandic food industry, whether in the field of fishing or in agriculture, it is very important that we use the best knowledge, the latest information, the skill, and the technology, whatever part of it is to make use of both areas. That's what it's for. Do and see that this can happen in this way. I would like to emphasize that in the discussion of this, we have always emphasized the ratios involved. I have discussed with the leading men in both articles in the leading of this and the fear of both parts of it is that the other part swallows the load that is coming in. It's not the thought, it's about to think of us as one whole, Iceland's Food Land, no matter what. When we discuss this in the way of asking if we are taking advantage of the situation that has developed in the crown virus, it is not. We are simply working in full harmony with what was previously done. Actually, nothing has changed since the council adopted it with 54 joint votes last June 19th, completely in agreement, to start the Food Fund together with the two funds. The reason that it didn't end was, as I mentioned in my introduction, pressured that we had to complete the food law to complete a certain EEA commitment for a year, i.e. December 14th. We simply did not have time to work to the end of this controversial part of the matter. Since then, I have worked with the case because in the obligatory deliberation of the majority of the committees, which all members of the committee wrote, it was emphasized that the preparation of the Food Fund would continue, in accordance with what was suggested in the above interpretation, agreed upon by 54 members of Parliament. It was to promote innovation and aim for it in Icelandic food production, including food production. by forming the Food Fund. That's why I've done so, and when this bill is presented now that it's being added to my opinion that it is a significant financial deposit by the body agency in the light of the conditions that are truly rich, that we have to meet the challenges that have faced this epidemic in a more full, better, and more powerful way than we can in these two relatively small funds. The will of the government stands for it. I'm glad we all agree to stand together and support innovation in this field. I think we need to. Whether we like it or not, we in Iceland are so small in international markets, whether we are shopping for food or sales and export, that we need all the energy we can combine to maintain our place in each area. To answer that. A senator with regard to gardening is now in agreement with it, which includes. is expected to meet the emphasis. A senator mentioned here about the transport and network costs for electricity. We're putting more money into that deal, and I hope we can finish that deal soon, next week or next week. I allow me to state the basis of the agreement that we may achieve and will reach that we will see an increase in production in this area of the year. Because I know why. Those here in the hall would like me to use all the talk time I have been thinking about adding that I simply thank you for all the solidarity in this fine subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u201	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a conquistador proposal made by the United States Congress on the out-of-work activities of the Covid-19 pandemic. The movers suggest that all members of the Union are members of the United States. The proposal suggests that financial and economic ministers and social and child - care ministers are premeditated by the government to engage in activities for people who lose their jobs because of the economic consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic and to meet the anticipated lack of summer jobs. Changes in regulations and bills will be made to the Council for this purpose no later than May 15, 2020. The operation includes at least The following things: 1st Basic non-employment improvements increase from 289,510k. of 314,720 a.m. 2. Maximum money-related unemployment gains increase from 456,400 k. of 516,000. 3. The ratio of average total wages-related unemployment improvements temporarily increases from 70% to 100%. 4. Since June 1 to August 31, 2020, students will be guaranteed the right to unemployment improvements. Earlier today, this suggestion has been introduced in one way or another, and it has been developed differently. Of course, those who have protested the purpose of the bill are correct, of course, that people are better off working and that they should work to create jobs for everyone. It is absolutely true that we will work, but in the reality we live today, there is a great unemployment and will be in the next few months, unfortunately, and the work will simply not be drawn out of this situation in the next few days. Today, unemployment rates are too low, and tens of thousands of people in the country will simply get into trouble with home accounting in the near future. It's important, as I came in earlier, to protect a company and defend people's jobs, but it must also protect the public from loss of income. Let us not forget, too, that homes have their fixed expenses that need to be paid without having a chance for a loan, a delay in taxes, and so forth. That's why this suggestion is about protecting our system. You both have to protect the companies and the people. These are synergistic factors. In fact, a century of unemployment had begun to cross the land long before the Korean virus was crushed, and now we can say that it is turning into a flood wave. It is estimated that national unemployment will be about 17% in April. In Southnes, unemployment is measured by about 20% and is expected to increase even further. In this context, it is important to keep in mind that the situation of the unemployed and their families is particularly sensitive when unemployment is high and there is very little opportunity for many people to find new jobs in the future. Unemployment is most likely to increase in low-payers during a crisis and is therefore particularly needed in this group. The contribution process is a very effective procedure for many, and the bill, of course, recommended for them made great progress in the conduct of the council. It must be extended. In contrast, it is necessary to take immediate action to meet people who entirely lose their jobs because of the pandemic and to ensure that money in the unemployment insurance system is in line with pay development in the country. First of all, the basic non-employment benefits that have not been followed by the last year's trials must be increased to meet this vulnerable group. The increase in salary counts on April 1, 2020, is normal for the lowest wage pay per the biographer contract. Second, those who lose their jobs need to be assured of higher unemployment rates while sailing through the deepest part of the economic depression. Therefore, transporters suggest that peak income-related unemployment benefits be increased to 516,000. according to the country's average wage development. Transporters point out that 3 mg. Thirty-three. The laws on unemployment insurance can be found on the authority of a minister to raise the above regulations in the light of the changed national programmes. Third, a decline in unemployment insurance law is suggested to be temporarily removed so that income - related unemployment benefits could be taken into consideration by the average total pay of the paid person, if less than 516,000 dollars. Maximum. During the worst crisis, the number of people who lose their jobs may be prevented by a sudden and excessive loss of income. Along with this change, it would be appropriate to decline the requirement that basic non-employment be paid for two weeks prior to the administration of commercially related unemployment benefits and to allow temporary pay-related unemployment benefits when a paid person gains the rights of the law. Finally, we feel right in dealing with the predictable challenges of students. Students will be made out of income that they could otherwise have relied on. For this reason, it is suggested that students be assured of the right to unemployment benefits from June 1 to August 31. These suggestions will help individuals and families to live up to financial obligations, such as rents, mortgages, and other expenses, and to put people through the worst. As I said earlier, even when it is necessary, it is not enough to meet the loss of an enterprise. The United States wants to support all good measures to maintain the level of employment in the country, but it needs to be protected from losing income as well. Mr. President. In all the measures taken by the government in this crisis, the measures must be to protect vulnerable groups. Otherwise, it is simply possible that once we overcome this virus, poverty and inequities have increased in our community, and for that we must not think. Therefore, I hope that the Senate will respond well to this proposal. Everyone gets at least to agree that it is necessary to support this group. Therefore, I suggest that this discussion be followed after the matter is referred to a welfare committee and that it receive good publicity.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u202	A respectable president. This proposal fits well into the emphasis Pirantar has brought to the attention and is part of what should be the first steps in such a condition, i.e. to define and ensure the base, the minimal extension. It's very strange that we have a straddle target in very many places, and we don't define any minimum floor, so people fall down through all the other windows in this very complex system we have. People would need at least I'm going to land on unemployment benefits. This bill helps a lot toward that. Other things that governments should take into account right away, and the smaller part has called for defenses for homes, e.g. to stop forced sales for some particular time so that people have a roof over their heads and that they have a job to get in and out of their mouth. These are two basic conditions that we need to consider in these situations. This interpretation proposal is definitely a step in the right direction, and I take my heart into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u203	A respectable president. We're discussing a council proposal for action in behalf of unemployed. I take my heart into her. She's totally in our spirit in The Gang of the People. If I wanted anything to change, I'd like to keep the amount higher, not 314,720. I would like to go right to the amount I spoke earlier today, 407,000 bucks, which I believe is counted near being the right forward. This makes it possible for artists to have the art industry and what is actually better to do with their inadequacy, their chain damage to them, and their work and survival. That's the kind of money I want. If we compare with the unemployment rates, we have disability at 255,000 dollars. and chain damages, and then many older citizens also bring 257,000 dollars. Which is the most pathetic part of everything. We need to speed up the change and, fortunately, we are working on a committee about older citizens' housing and disability. Sadly, older citizens are being first dealt with, but in this regard, microsurgents must also be dealt with because there is nothing more pathetic than their ideals. It is not a large group, and it shames us to know that we make people try to live on something that we know is absolutely hopeless, the amount that is so low that it is really a disgrace to mention it. Although I take artistic wages for example, I'm not criticizing them, artists are no good, and I support their whole mind. We've seen this weekend after the weekend of Helgi upstairs in Kóls, how great the artists are. Without them, life would be gray and not as wonderful. I look forward to every Saturday night listening to the artists Helgi and those who come out with him. I'm glad there's been a solid foundation. We've made a demand and asked to get the right forward. She needs to be right, and we know that this thing we're running with five, six different procedures doesn't work out. We know the answers, the good ones are not done, and then when the good ones leave, who will they bite? Who, then, is the last to receive? This has been demonstrated over the years, and it has been seen in the publicity I showed today that the decrease has increased Gaginicianism among older citizens and micropows. No one is happy because he has to survive, and therefore I support my whole mind all the things that mean no one has to live in poverty, much less. [[The president calls.]] As the situation is today, these people live in poverty.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u204	Mr. President. It's a pleasure to hear the support of these ideas from both The Piranha and the Gang of the People, but it's certainly not surprising to me. I'm not necessarily going to take advantage of the second duet. I'm just going to give it a little bit more than just a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit. Of course, the artist's salary is a contractor's payment, which is just another law, and the net level that goes into the artist's pocket is not that number. But first, what? A senator came into the nursing court of the elderly, and I remind you that at the council, there is a bill that I proposed last fall that their terms would rise in the same way as their biography contract. I suppose that's what I'm gonna do. A senator will support us in furthering that issue. As a matter of fact, I remember him agreeing with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-04-22-92.u205	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir These words are for the Logi of Einarsson's son. I agree completely with him, I deeply agree with him in all our struggles for the worst in our society. We're a very rich society. We don't need it like this. We should now have the sense to stop such injustice. We must not forget that, and we need to have it in our hearts that we are throwing a dollar and saving money with this. There is much to say about keeping people in poverty or in very poor society. It'll be more expensive to the state. As noted above, this shortens the survival rate by 10◯12 years. It sucks to know as well as to know that this also calls for pressures on the health system and on all kinds of systems that result in a far greater cost. That is why it is so strange that we should not be more advanced and advanced in evolution, that we should still have a system like this, and that we should always have to talk about it but not do it. I hope we don't have to go through another campaign and promise a cent to one that's off, this against the other, and then it doesn't make any sense. It sucks, and we're supposed to make sure once and for all that everyone can have a decent life in Iceland.
