ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-141.u1	That's a bit of it, like, two-point-five-four. The important issue that too much is left over in them, so we need to seek approval that the discussion may be taken into consideration. There is now a debate on the subject of variation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-141.u2	Mr. President. I recommend a proposal for a resolution of consent to postpone the General Assembly meeting at Article 1. 23rd par. The constitution. The suggestion is as follows: ▪ The General concludes to agree that meetings will be postponed from September 4, 2020, or later, if necessary, to October 1, 2020. The motion is self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-141.u3	This concludes with the agreement made before a summer break. I believe the Council was successful in a brief period of time under unconventional circumstances. For disease prevention reasons, a larger assembly meeting area was needed to ensure distances and to provide a vote system at the front seat of the council and a minister of the side halls. Thank you very much. I would bring a special welcome to all who were preparing for it. Thus, the employment conditions of the senators and of the personnel of the General Assembly office have been unusual and challenging during this subsequent meeting with the Generalis. In fact, since the months of the full - time ministry, there has been an unusual, extensive, demanding work of legislatures in Iceland. I believe that the Council has successfully resisted the test and is grateful that the legislator could have carried out his role uninterrupted in spite of the epidemic, usually in excellent harmony, during these unprecedented times when so much is the case. Before I speak, I want to know that yesterday offer was opened in the new building of the Generals, and it was a pleasure that two of the four offers were under a budget. We look in eager expectation that all the activities of the Generals will be in their own buildings and then most of them will be connected here at the General Assembly. This will completely change the work status of the general and staff for the better. Finally, I'd like to thank the senators for their good cooperation as well as especially for the staff of the Generals. For these thankss, the president of the Generalis, Stigrim J. Sigfússon, sends his regards to the meeting, which is held north of his home to hiccups. I expect all of us to meet together safely when the Allied council meets at the beginning of October at the 151th legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-141.u4	President of the United States reports: I, apart from the approval of the Generals, authorized the prime minister to postpone Generalist meetings of 150th C.E. from September 4 September 2020 or later, if necessary, to October 1 to 2020. Bases, September 4th, 2020. The Guðni of Th. Jóhannesson. Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Presidential Letters for Pronunciation of General meetings By this request and by references to the approval of the Generals, I declare that General Assembly meeting of 150th is postponed. I want to thank you very much. President and w. For good planning, members of the Parliament are organized at extraordinary times. All members of the Parliament for a good and objective discussion of the important matters that have been discussed over the past few days. We'll see each other sooner than later.
