ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u1	President has been received notice, day. On June 15, 2020, similar to Article 16, where changes were made in the committees of the council. Congress, so Jón Þór Ólafsson will take the seat of the Ævarsdóttir Magistrate as the chief member of the Commission and Control Committee, and Thorhilda Sunna will be a deputy of that committee. At the same time, Thorhldur Sunna Ævarsdóttir will take the seat of Jóri Thor, son of Olafur, who is headed on a professional committee and will take up the role of Jón Þór Ólafsson as assistant to that committee. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u2	We'll have a recession at a conference this afternoon from the end of the day. 14,30,16,00 because of the Alfreð of the son of Þorsteinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u3	Mr. President. The joyous event has occurred here yesterday, finally giving an answer to my inquiry, which has been submitted seven times, first for over two and a half years. It has to do with the sale and management of the full-time holding of the camp loans set up in 2008-52019 and shows in the answer that this is a total of 4,210 apartments sold for about 72 billion. I want to use this opportunity to thank the President for helping in this case - it's been pretty intense - and also the members of the council who have come to it. As we all know, the surveillance duties of members of the Parliament are very rich and their queries are guaranteed, both in Constitution and in Congress, and therefore it is very important that the European Commission does not have information necessary for members of Congress to maintain its own surveillance role. It brings to mind that this answer, of course, needs to be addressed. That will be a great deal of work and interesting work. The finals of yesterday are considering that another matter is being carried out today as regards the work of the administrative and monitoring committee, i.e. access to the Senate's original report of a state accountant on Lindahol's affairs. Lindarogel's subject is now being treated by a management and monitoring committee because the final report has been submitted by a state accountant. It will not be possible to resolve this problem unless you compare these two bags. That's why I'm supposed to be a member of the President's team in that this information will be provided to a member of the council, as was done in the case I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u4	A respectable president. How to hide behind the confidence and shut the door. Violence thrives when bacteria get away with their behavior under cover of either being silent or not understanding what is going on. The committee work here at a council is generally seen behind closed doors, and it is forbidden to quote the words of men directly. For this system's reasons, but at the same time, it can be abused the refuge it forbids to hide violence. But it is not just words that express violence. It is no less an act that can hide threats, accusations, or other harassment. With this in mind, I'd like to remind you that there are Piratars who have spoken mostly about transparency in committees and open up committees while some others have wanted to hold the veil that can hide violence. Please keep this in mind, those who have seen or heard: Say something. In this area, we often hide behind the fact that our jobs here are in some form of political conflict that is just very normal. That is understandable in a way. But again, it can be used as a front for unacceptable behavior and harassment that we should distinguish from informing about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u5	V.E.G. President. I'm going to be just ahead of my future, and I'm going to be in a celebration today, to celebrate tomorrow's 17th, and to declare my pride, how proud I am of my people; how successful they have been in fighting Covid-19. It has shown that the power of our bonding results greatly in success. The three - year - long success has been remarkable, and how satisfying it is to see how well it will last! It was well seen yesterday when the border began to be opened, but the tribe has been there in preparation and is working on it, enjoying the national trust. It's promising what last night's news told you. But the future is uncertain, and we do not know exactly what it involves in these matters as well as in other aspects of life. News of the epidemic is coming out of the world, but I believe it, and I trust we can continue on this journey. We have experience in this regard, and it has been successful, and we can continue to build on that experience. But what has already come into the table for us politicians is dealing with the economic consequences of the epidemic and it's going to be heavy propaganda. But I believe that, and we also have experience working out for economic crisis, that we can learn from it all, and the future can be bright.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u6	Mr. President. The fourth pack of energy is in sight. V.E.G. Industrial Minister has answered my request for assessment of the fourth energy package. It describes a standard practice of working group and other activities. There is no mention that, in preparation, legal opinions were made that were significant in the last year's discussion of the third energy package but were observed late. The main media on the east and west of the sea agree that the judgment of the German administrative court, May 5, is a sort of legal eruption on the European Union scene. The Court has a declaration that Germany is an independent state involved in the cooperation of sovereign countries but not in a European Union. This is equal to us. Me and the Icelanders can't give in to the demand for custody of our resources. Electricity is not the only example of national interests. The import of the raw meat is a threat to animal health and public health and must be forced by legalization. The time has come for Icelanders to hitch a tight foot, following the German example in a month's time. In view of the minister's response, it is proper to make a decision that the administrative factor and other legal questions that should be addressed to the fourth energy package need to be examined much sooner in the process than was carried out. Now is the time to seek the opinion of experts on the fourth energy package before it is too late.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u7	A respectable president. Earlier this year, we went to a respectable president and one before. A senator to New Zealand for a public visit. We'll meet there. There are similarities between Iceland and New Zealand, both governmental and cultural as expected. One of the differences in New Zealand is that committees, though in many respects, are similar to those we have here, are open. When guests arrive, they are open. I asked specifically on grounds if it was somehow controversial, and the answer was no. There he was fully content with the matter, and he thought nothing of it, nor did he cause any trouble. I've thought it strange that here in Iceland, when something has already changed, e.g. opening up a meeting, is a very short time for people, and especially for members of the Parliament, to set up obstacles that may not be so well founded but rather simply to be conservative, fear of change. It is ironic that from the same direction, codicious statements on the importance of courage and dare usually come, but then, when things are going to change, everything will be terribly difficult and terrifying. Yes, it is the past, the way things have been done over the centuries, that is what counts most. It contains the warm security where people know what to expect. I suggest once again, a respectable president, as I have done before, that we look to the future more and try to be a national state and as a republic to be the best at something. We can do it. I suggest we try. I suggest we look forward to the future, not just backwards. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u8	Mr. President. On the other hand, two of the morning news began to make me think of chaos or confusion. It was an attack of the North Koreas at the Kaesong Industrial Office and, on the other hand, a conflict between the Chinese and Indian armies in the Galwan Valley. In either case, there are fire - old conflicts that are now becoming a real mess. System studies may refer to the concept of the edge of the mess with reference to the fact that if a resolution is too severe, nothing will happen. Alcohol is defined as a lack of pressure and movement, but if chaos or confusion is too much, things don't work, it all dissolves. We always seek political balance and balance both within the country and outside, but we, of course, insist that we, at times, seek to find that balance, try to remain on the edge of the mess at all times. And when we look back on this year, where there may have been a lot of confusion, in most terms, I think, with the Covid and the protests in the United States and beyond and other problems going on, you have to ask: " Don't we have a lot and a rich duty to try to reduce the chaos now and then perhaps later give up when the chaos has become too much? I'd like to at the end to point out a good branch of Gauti Eggertsson Eggertson in the reactor this morning for the rage and blindness of normal customs, which sometimes hinders us from finding this balance. It is important that we discern when it is too difficult, when too small, and try to act on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u9	V.E.G. President. Last night we agreed on a postponement of contributions from revised government policy, financial plans and budget bill. At the same time, we agreed to move General Assembly Day to October 1. In a relatively short period of time, it is important that new and revised policy be placed as soon as possible, as the government laws recommend. Despite the good results of the virus and the economic fog loss, there is still considerable economic uncertainty. We're still working with Covid-related economics and it's clear that this year's crisis will be significant. In this way, however, we must simply let the government's affairs work with the economy, the business, and the households. Inevitably, the funds that we have will be made by borrowing. Other measures: Although the terms of budgetary and financial policies are broken, such measures would not be correct, whether on the income or on the pay button. How difficult it is to meet the challenges ahead of us! One of the biggest is to work fast down the unemployment that comes along and prevent long - term lack of work. A steady review and a high priority spending is a ongoing task, but it will test as never before. Governments and more people have been working on scenarios, and in a summary economics of the Allegorium, the average for the 8.7% reduction of GDP for this year and 5.1% of economic growth for the next one. The project has been to use the government budget and emergency operations, and the project is to grow out of this trap.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u10	A respectable president. The welfare committee has a bill at the top. Social Affairs Minister on share loans. This bill complies with the government contract and biographies of a general labour market over the past year, and is intended to improve the status of young ones and the low income of a housing market, which should also be used for those who have lost their home and who have not been in their own housing for at least one year. Five years. At the same time, the bill is designed to increase the incentive for the developer to build an economic home that is suitable for commercial groups of society. The idea of sharing loans obtained from Scotland has given them good results and has led to increased supply of acceptable housing. There has also been an increase in rural development. The nature of the matter, according to one estimate, is that of new buildings in a country where there is a market failure in real estate, more expensive than older ones. Directing share loans to practical innovations produces an incentive to build abroad. Criticism has particularly led to financial failures to lend apartment purchases in cold areas. Other measures to the highest. A social minister has attacked the region to answer that criticism. A special loan group at Hosse and Human Resources Institutes, both as well as as as commercial projects, has already begun to become available in Coaloose, Dala, the town of Array, the Northern Parliament, the Slyslavík, the City, the Aarition, and Isafjörður. There are also many tasks in the pipes. A respectable president. The following points to the view that there is no value for the same principles of real estate markets in the major capital area and in cold areas of the country. Flexibility in the system must be available to meet in specific situations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u11	A respectable president. The work of the administration and monitoring committee has been for discussion here at the Hall of Congress. I don't intend to make the committee's work a subject more suitable for meetings. Yesterday, on June 15, however, a letter was received to the committee and is answered by the letter at the highest level. The President of the Generals to ask the Committee how committees are generally able to complete the initiative check. I think it is proper to report here that the letter has arrived, since the matter has been discussed in the Senate Hall, and the answer may apply to all committees of the council. That's where even the two of them come from. so that it is by far the most common case of initiative is in the form of the so - called information meeting where the committee receives a guest meeting in a case that has been discussed in the public field. In general, the proposal by the committee or members of the committee is made enough to include a quarter or three members of the committee. However, it is in the hands of the majority of the committees each time to decide how each case is handled. Relatively few initiatives will be concluded with a report to the council, with only one opinion for the council and six reports on their 2010 observations. It also shows that the taking of initiative is not for standard Congress in the sense of III. section of Congress and therefore do not receive a specific language or document number unless review completes with a report. The letter contains seven clear ways to complete the initiative. That's where even the two of them come from. to the end of most tests without specifically booked closure or formal completion. I finally thank you. paritaprevir Thorhman Ævarsdóttir Ævarsdóttir for her cooperation in the management board and in the monitoring committee now that she has retired on the committee and is reporting on other committee activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u12	A respectable president. I'm happy up here to thank you very much. The social and child - care minister was quick to react when he increased the car strength to the disabled by 20% and thus managed the number of cars that had increased by a million to sea as a result of a gang drop. But at the same time, I want to send out this message that sucks to think that more part of Reykjavík City is going a long way to stop these same people and other disabled people from walking on the streets of Reykjavík City. The big explanation is that there are no parking lots for disabled people on the street. But who took away the disabled parking lot, the ones on the street? It's the same city, Reykjavíkurburg. And another explanation is that walking streets to disabled people cannot be opened because if disabled persons drive along the streets as far as possible, the person who comes next after law breaks. And then it is to blame for the disabled. What kind of message is that? What kind of prejudice is going on? This is also reflected in a new news report that opens up homes on the whole city land. It says a word in the story, with the permission of a president: A 7 million - million - dollar elevator. The house is still liftless, so it is devoid of near - speed motor walkers with steep stairs. The house was more expensive than expected, and to save it, 7 million dollars were postponed. It's an elevator, but the elevator shaft's ready. Self - preservation, the national relationship of motorists, has made a comment on this provision. It was too expensive to put the elevator in. But how much did the elevator cost? Yeah, 7 million. What was the total cost? 3.5%. Would this house be opened if they needed a ladder? Would a construction officer open such a house? Or if you needed windows or doors, or if it was just inseparated? No, never.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u13	President. Later on, this meeting presents a matter of the establishment of a community between the state and six companies in the capital area on a city line called an ohf matter. I really hope that we have the good fortune to finish that matter. We would have been better off doing this at our meeting on Friday last, but it went as it went. However, listening to what I have been discussing has caught my attention. The members of the Central Party and not only on that matter but also on all the issues related to transport in general. They're not different. They have spoken of having the will of rural governments in which 230,000 inhabitants of the country live, ignoring and throwing to the calmness of the great work that the rural governments and the government have done. This is shown in a suggestion to follow, across the street in the city city of Reykjavík, where the council representative of the mayor proposes that the city line project be postponed for an indefinite period. I find this odd, President, especially in a group that has prided themselves on the fact and data at times, since all the facts and data clearly show that the overall solution to traffic systems in the capital area is this integrated solution to stockways and to the city line. I often think that this is an indication of this amazing thought, which you often saw in many places, and I thought had disappeared, that the irreverent manner is virtue. That standing alone against all others is in itself virtue. It's not. A cooperation and agreement on good things is virtue. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u14	Mr. President. During the past few years, there has been a deep awareness of food waste, leaving about one - third of the food we buy with a waste and sophistication. We consumers and I all have responsibilities there, but we are not alone. Probably one of the largest food wastes in later years has taken place because of the crown epidemic. In the face of this epidemic, economics alone became a major haven for slaughtering and deforestation. What a waste of it was where slaughter animals had to be discarded and milk poured down, and vegetables were decomposing on the fields! This is a reminder that for us to be safe about our food production, we must also keep in mind that the system's endurance is okay, that we do not have all the eggs in the same basket. Food security is not only about our producing enough food here but also about the fact that we can get it to the national market. But why am I talking about it here? Prices of various vegetables have increased because there was no shortage of growth in the crop supply of mobile workers in Europe. So in this context, I have to say, it's very nice that we've already negotiated with Icelandic gardeners to increase production of Icelandic vegetables by 25% in the coming years. We can have little effect on what happens in the big world, but we can see to it that we produce a larger share of what we eat at home with reasonable motivations in contracts that reduce agricultural waste management and increase production. At the same time, we need to keep in mind that when we are shopping, we are going to use it, not to throw it away.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u15	Mr. President. I'd like to mention just two things that have been going on in this discussion. First, I feel that there is reason to agree with the question. paritaprevir The Ólafur of Isaiah's Ísleifsson is still unforeseeable about the judgment of the German administrative court. Of course, he describes a certain conflict that takes place in the European Union regarding the boundaries of national authority and the national institutions. It's very interesting for us to keep an eye on it. In our case there is no or is no disagreement about the fact that Iceland is not bound by the implementation of regulations or regulations from the European Union. That's our choice. It is clear, however, that saying no does not mean saying no, nor does it make sense when humans use their opportunity to say no. The other point I was going to mention is what happened earlier. Martyrs about opening up a committee meeting. As a spokesman for change and radicalness in the hall, I think it would be right to agree that there may be evidence for open committee meetings, and in fact, open meetings are much more frequent today than they were here about ten years ago or something like that. Although they were unknown for a long time, they are not rare today. There are pros and cons. The problems may be that they do not get the same confidential talk mentioned in a committee, and as for visitors, they may be less inclined to provide the requested information. [[The president calls.]] The advantage, of course, is that if the meeting is open and open and open and all available, it is not possible to give a wrong description of what is going on in the committee meetings. Of course, this has its own advantage.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u16	Mr. President. In the last few weeks and months, there have been many positive reports that indicate that we are at least to be effective when it comes to transport energy, whether in an area, uterus, or air. We see a rapid increase in electrical vehicles in the national fleet. We hear of planes flying on electricity as well as exciting trends in energy exchange at sea. At the national headquarters meeting recently, a challenge was adopted to the government to ban the import of fuel and diesel cars by 2020, and the import of machinery that do not represent clean energy sources for 2025. Indeed, ambitious goals, but the fact is that in order to get serious problems, we must also set real goals. Happily, though, Iceland seems to be participating in energy exchange. That's how 45% of the newly registered cars in Iceland are what's left of this year electrical and linking trucks. Unfortunately, however, there are still some obstacles to the development of electric cars, at least to people's minds. The top of the bottle's neck is that there are still too few local loading stations, even one or three, as it is at the ballroom. This means that on popular travel routes, however, the use between them is, of course, smaller, and so on, the limit is whether an investment in more relief stations is paying off. We need to respond in some way. One way would be the way the Germans have chosen, to make loading stations mandatory at each gas station. However, there is another way I would like to mention it, and I am working to make changes in the role of Raiks and to assign it to speed up the building work of relief stations in key areas around the country. So I think we could take bigger and faster steps toward transport energy exchanges.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u17	A respectable president. There are two cases that I might call rights, which I would like to record today, that we have to look to and the highest. Ministers who take those classes. First, I'd like to agree with what. paritaprevir The Guðguundur of Ingi Kristinsson's saying that it is distressing to see how the bioavailability issues can be driven. That needs to be perfectly clear and the highest. Social Affairs needs to check on us how we can get access issues into routine building monitoring, just as is done in construction, burn surveillance, and so forth. There are no buildings or drawings approved unless they meet fire defense standards, escape demand, and so on, and the bioavailability issues for the disabled are totally the same. It's a security issue, it's an issue of rights, and we need to figure out a solution so that the bioavailability issue will fit into the current monitoring and match it well. The other thing I wanted to mention, and we need to see if we can make any changes in the way we're talking. It is hard to believe that groups are repeatedly carrying expired collective agreements. Why on earth is that? Is there something in the process we have created here or made a custom or a law about or something that makes it possible to allow ourselves to go beyond the time of reaching a collective agreement? I'm especially thinking about my colleagues in the police department. They do not have the right to strike, but this also seems to be lenient to other classes, who have the right to strike. We need to find some ways to change this and prevent this, for it is very painful for everyone to think that this is the way things are done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u18	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A pan-European and educational committee for good work on the case that has made good changes in the affairs of the council. The government has worked hard to help households and companies pass through the waves created by Covid-19, and this is one of the areas in which they are involved, one of the mechanisms to create a lifeline to companies that have been exposed to a huge business crash and it is necessary to create companies in this setting for building up. Perhaps it is compared to a ship that is taken in a slang for repair and maintenance, which is important in these times, an unexpected shock. The bill can be very important for the number of enterprises which have been difficult for Covid, and with the bill it is possible to escape the bankruptcy of enterprises which, in a normal year's travel, would have been seen on a future business.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u19	A respectable president. Here we will continue our discussion of the transport program with the rest of us. but the plans were taken into account by the Environment and Transport Committee last week. The committee received these programs for discussion in the beginning of December, and since then a great deal of work has been done on the committee, a job that I am truly happy about and proud of, and would like to thank the cooperation on that project. The PPE was last implemented over a year ago, but now we're putting up an updated programme with more money to play and a number of projects being developed more than a year ago. The plans are presented to the Parliament to integrate other government policies, such as a built-in programme and a communication plan, and the transport fund is discussed, but as reported yesterday, plans will naturally take into account other such factors as policies and measures for energy change and other aspects of these issues. But as I have previously said in this discourse, all of us are affected by transportation. They are the largest community issues as well as health and public health. They're educational and well - being, professional, environmental and cultural matters, and I'm most not involved here in transport discussions without mentioning it, and it's important that we thus look at the whole category. The design and development of transportation is a major factor in the long and short - term development of the community, so we need to be careful about all the planning in this area, much like anywhere else. This ideal period is a turning point in many ways in transport, being restored in nearly a decade of slow motion. The current plan clearly indicates that we are subsidizing the infrastructure of transport after the collapse, with a huge increase in funding being spent for road construction compared to the previous period. Certainly, we are not running out of transportation. We'll be very late in such a rural country as Iceland is. But here, these are critical and specific steps. There's a lot of fermentation in transport projects, and many bolts in the air, including some of them. Work on research, design, environmental assessment, energy exchange, negotiations between state and rural society, state and landowners, state and public partner, working on improving the wide range of means of financing projects, and working on a global review of the future financing of the road system, which was also evident during yesterday's discussion. At the same time as supporting the programme, there will be additional important projects related to the Plan Generalisation, e.g. New flight policy, new policy on public transportation, transport contract for the capital area, and project planned for cooperation on road projects. As we know, the Allied Parliament, together, deals with basics related to the transport contract and the co-works. With the payment of more part of the Environment and Transport Committee on the programme and the Committee's Committee, it is suggested to the council that the plans as planned, in fact, all of the projects will be agreed, together with the shortcuts adopted by the General Assembly in the 2020 investment campaign, which is a counter-requisition for Covid, and those projects were approved by the Council Recontraction of No. 28/150. Among the emphasis on investment campaigns was transportation at 6.5 billion dollars. In addition to what was expected in a proposal for a transport plan as it was submitted to the council. This funding was used to speed up the beginning of various projects throughout the country and gives much emphasis to the fact that all of these initiatives approved by the Parliament will be followed by financiers in a financial programme set forward in the autumn to complete them in the year 20211⁄223. This can be said to be the main result of the review of the Committee. These include air bases and airports in Akureyri, a combustion in the form of a racetrack playing with an airport at Ellis State Airport, porting, including the U.S. on Bilddal and Deepvogi, bridge development in many parts of the country, callorg, road construction and design, weather - related projects, transport projects, and maintenance of airports, including At Isafaf Airport and Thors Harbor Airport. The budget was then set out specifically for the maintenance of other landing sites within the country. This is clearly stated in the Committee's list and the changes made in the majority of parts include To the birds of the north, and of Húsavík, and of the plains; and to the rest thereof shall it be scattered. And in order to further reassign these main findings, this means that, after financial planning is submitted to the Council in the fall, the Environment and Transport Committee will submit a plagion proposal based on the work of the Committee in the winter, the proposals for financial support and the emphasis given by the Committee at the end of the committee. In my opinion, with the decision to start this year, there is a commitment to completing these projects at a reasonable period of employment. Such a small random review of some of the important projects of the programme, many of which are large and important projects that are likely to create new opportunities in Icelandic society and contribute to all for innovation. Of course, one of these so - called so - called so - called important matters is the transport agreement of the capital area. The major breakthrough in the Treaty is that it unites the state, and six rural areas in the capital area provide transportation for the entire population of the capital and funding for the development of human activities and public transportation for 15 years. A huge step is the cooperation of rural society, which involves planning traffic throughout the area as a whole. The arrival of the State guarantees a link with traffic to and from the flying capital, along ports and tracks, including linking with the Dizziness Course, however, proposals for the long track are expected to be at the end of summer. The transport Treaty expects considerable initiatives in the construction of all transports in the capital area, in the footways, in the special areas of priority traffic, walking and cycle paths, as well as the effort to use traffic control. Dialysis work on light management has begun, but improved traffic control can significantly affect traffic flows at relatively low costs. The purpose of the transport covenant includes: to speed up the work done, but the updated implementation of the covenant will remain part of a transport program. Thus, the General will continue to enable them to maintain a complete view of their transport activities. The transport problem is considered to be a very important factor in creating this overall vision for the investment and development of the whole country's transport system as well as in ensuring reconciliation for national transport as far as the next 15 years. The respect of all parties for agreements and cooperation in work to its advancement is such a key that plans will be made and useful to all citizens of the country. Then I wanted to come in on different roads. Actually, quite a few of these were in the conversation yesterday, but I'm going to stop at some of them. The committee gives particular emphasis to the fact that founding roads that have not yet been bound by fragments have special priorities. In fact, most of these roads are on schedule, but they can speed up and speed up the complete completion of them. It's for example. Roads such as the Forest Coast Road, road to the city's plains, and highways to name something, but also the Turbine Road, and the Bilddal Road, and the road between Sanddor and Gardur. Some of these projects require special budgeting, but others can be used as part of the security and maintenance projects that have pots for provision each year. Links are also a very important project, and special funds are designed for funding and repairs linked to the erosion of road-bound barriers in order to increase safety. Job practices, altered basic and technical services, and increasing travel by tourists to natural vehicles have completely altered traffic weights and pressures on this road, and there is a significant need for improvement. The budget is being increased in such projects, and the Committee stresses the distribution of funds into the country in proportion to those that still have the malaria breaker in each part of the country, but it stresses continuing to follow funding for transport in the coming years. Districts and roads may be the only roads that are generally at the lowest attention in the transport program, but most of the population of the rural population that cross-ways would end in local or strengthening roads. As a result, they are a large part of the malarkeys the residents of the rural area daily. The state of the road system in scattered settlements often has a major impact on competitiveness and innovation in the sector. Thus, we have examples that narrow and remote areas of life prevent road transport and agriculture products and reduce the possibility of developing employment and even continuing the activities that are already present. Therefore, the Commission suggests that there will be some work to be done to identify the rules that apply to these roads and how to ensure the equality of those who are working in rural areas in transport, whether they live on national roads, network roads, or soils. Roads outside the root system are one category of roads. It is the roads of mountains and mountains, and of desolate wastes. The use of these has increased extensively in recent years, but funding for them is primarily due to the maintenance money of the Roadmaker. The majority suggest that the road will be assigned to guide work in identifying the need for capital and the reasonable development of roads outside the root road, and this may be a step toward improving the methods of cohesion in maintaining good health. It is now assumed, in this transport program, that a complete analysis of Iceland's soil currents will be made to provide long-term priorities. In this respect, a greater proportion of the Committee will focus on the creation of more than one geologic project at the same time and on the availability of geological research, community analysis, and the benefit analysis so that priorities are solid. The only project on the plan now is a tunnel in the East. The Commission stresses that unless the project is carried out as a continuous unit, the landing in the East will not fully result in success, resulting in a circuit linking the way in the country. Therefore, a tunnel between the South and the North has to follow the Embargo. In fact, the work at the tunnel between Sufjörður and North Land could begin before working on Futurah was fully completed, but the committee stresses that research and preparation of the circuit will complete as soon as possible to start a budget. The new flight policy and investment campaign 2020 mark a turning point in flight. The air base will be enlarged, along with aeroplane repair at the terminal, and it will have already been exported. In particular, I would like to be especially happy about how fast cases have developed there during the past month or since the development of a transport and rural minister's operation in December to assess the need for assistance and service at the airport at Akureyri Airport in cooperation with local citizens. During the New Year's season, there was a turning point in operations and construction at the Egls National Airport, when Istavia took over the airport with a special contract based on his role in the Aviary Airport in flying policy. As mentioned earlier, the preparation for a runway route at Egls, in conjunction with the sound of airports, and in the majority of the committees, says that at the same time, preparation for the repair of new malbcks surfaces on the runway would begin at the same time be funded by the management contract with Istavia. Of course, it is proper to remind you that in the transport program, every year 2.5 billion are running for international service through the Service Convention with Istavia, which is then controlled. The movement of the Egil position - level airport to Isvia provides more space for their services than it does for the international flight as public transportation. The committee celebrates this and plans that the Scottish route will be adopted early in the fall of 2020. Then, I think, in both proposals and committees, I think, that there will be more intensive work to establish the ELTS in order to serve the whole country and its environment. The system serves even. But there are other methods of transportation. That's when things start to pass. It may be appropriate to mention just that, of course, environmental and energy exchanges are extremely important. I'd also like to mention a case introduced in the commission, a scene such as escorting, the creation of shelter, and sheltering in the road and better registration of accidents. Finally, though, I would like to point out that on page 19. A list of projects that a greater part of the Committee stresses starting work early is now estimated as the scope of the development of a special budget for the year 2025-52034 following the work started and is expected to complete during the first period due to special investment efforts. These lists include: Projects such as the Smokey Way, near the airport, bridges over glaciers in the Mountains, Shiver River, Lager River, and Highway 1 between Storm and Breið Valley. But there's quite a lot of work to do. Finally, any transport work that can be done under existing conditions in the community and in the economic recession that has followed the Covid counterweight action of Covid can be considered important and should be used to speed up projects that can support the work structure and increase economic growth, competition and safety of road users. A respectable president. I can't wait to see what the projects in the plan are going to do. Imagine, after 15 years, the number of single bridges on the ring road has dropped by more than 30, apart from the reduction of the number of single bridges. Transport projects are varied. To make sure that you can get ahead safely, you need to work systematically, evaluate, and then take one step at a time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u20	Mr. President. The fact that transportation is the lifeblood of the nations applies especially to our small, peripheral land. Even so, for years the authorities have neglected their role, for one or another, in caring for the proper structure and maintenance of the country's roads. As new challenges are added to the growing number of tourists in recent years, it is clear that action is needed. All in all, it is estimated that there is an increase in our transport needs of some 400 billion dollars. This fact is reflected in the work that is behind the transport strategy available here, over a year after the General's last approval of the transport program. I'd like to relate the context to review the history of the transport program in recent years. In the autumn of 2016, I'm not going to go further, for an unexpected election then in the fall, an approved transport plan was adopted, which then got the score pretty soon, even in the discussion itself, to be an election plan without an introduction. So two years later, in the fall of 2018, a new process of transportation was introduced that was designed to be more realistic. It had an abundance and sections of intense debates, especially as a result of shock and conflict within the board of directors, which made the program itself and its basis changes constantly while the environmental and transport committees were working the case. Finally, in February 2019, a transport program was conducted in 2019-2023 and 201952033, provided from the General Assembly, but prehistoric that the same fall should bring up a new plan. It should then be available for transport ministers on new transport funding as well as agreement with rural areas in the capital area on transport in that area, to ensure a long-term fly policy. It was a little story. Since the fall of 2019, these issues have been crawling together, and now we're putting up, if corpses, a transport plan for the 20200/2024, and by 2020200/52034, in the context of a covenant for transportation in the capital area, which was signed. A fall of the transport minister and the head of six local rural communities, in connection with the authority to establish public stocks on the construction of transport infrastructure in the capital area, which is on the program here this afternoon or tonight, and in the context of a bill for the cooperation of road projects, which was taken out of the transport committee this morning. I'm on the opinion of the greater part of this case. For the most part, for the reason that I think the work of the Committee is careful, it has been taken into account a number of opinions, and it is almost admirable in my opinion how the committee has met over the issues I have covered here and is able to move the situation out of the way of conflict it was in, pushing it all around, and breaking it all together. It was predictable that this would be a complicated issue. The Covid incident certainly did not simplify it. The manager of the case, huh? paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, went over it yesterday as well as another member of the greater part, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, today what the consequences will have on the final payment, and I may have a little follow-up. But I've already traced this case because I consider the work of the committee to be good. I'm also on this case because one of the things on the beach a year ago, and possibly earlier, it was that the authorities were running their transport policy in a completely different direction than the authorities in the capital area, the six rural communities, and that is naturally unacceptable. But this is no longer the case. Most important, I am in this case because I believe it is an important matter of interest to the entire country that we will be pleased with these matters and that we will continue to move things along and let our actions speak. I have a specific schedule. Instead of giving yet another talk about the majority opinion I am about, which I've been considering, and I'm not minimizing it, there's a full reason for people to do it, I'm going to go, hopefully not on very long terms, on the notice I'm setting on the subject. The first guard is positive. I think it's a reason to celebrate, and I'm assuming that the transport contract signed by the State and its six rural partners. In the autumn, it has become part of a long-term policy strategy on transportation, not just an outline. Especially in my opinion, there's a positive focus on the city line. On the contrary, it is a cooperation project that is presented by some in the discussion. This is the cooperation of every member of the country in the capital area, a large part of the nation. These persons have convened through this approach across the ranks. It is not only necessary for the transport systems of this densely populated area to be in the near future when we expect an increase in the number of private vehicles in traffic. Rather, increased emphasis on public transport is the prerequisite for us to achieve our goals in climate change. In addition, the project meets the expectations and wishes of a number of people in this area who want this mode of transportation, which wants to choose to travel in this way. There is no need to specify again and again all the programs that show that this project, the city line, will make it possible for those who want or have to travel around in their private car to do so, something they would not be able to do without the construction. If it should be well, public transportation on a national level would be an honorary seat in the government's transport program, whether for five or 15 years. In fact, I predict that it will be in the near future. The reason is obvious, as I say, there are factors such as the effects on farm selection, choice of transportation, traffic weight, and traffic security that play in there, and most of all, our goals in climate change. The challenges are still one of the biggest and most important projects ever to be faced by the governments of our day and will, I am afraid to say for the future. It's in their spirit, in the spirit of the climate that's coming from me. It would have been good for me to see more emphasis on the construction of infrastructure into the electricalization of transport. There are bound to be great efforts when it comes to transport energy exchanges, and it could have been met with ambitious approach. I realize that there is a question about where this approach should take place, whether it is in a transport plan or somewhere else, but it might have been more clearly stated, giving them higher emphasis on a transport program. Less than half the newly registered cars, e.g. Today there are electric or tweezers. The news is coming from the news, the warnings for travelers who are about to land on vacation, or deck, on vacation, that there will be delay at every major loading point. This is not good, so it would have to be possible to deal with. While this would certainly not have been done by handling it in a committee party here, I am referring to this matter as to how important it is to be intertwined in all our actions. Surely this is not just the case with the cars, but also in the air and at sea. Although our fleet, the fishing fleet, is in good condition, we have an electricization of the harbor, and then we hear these reports of the electricalization of the flight. I think it's going to be the next big thing we're going to be dealing with in environmental and transport soon, and hopefully it'll be right back in the fall. We can, to a large extent, agree with the future vision described in the Committee's opinion that direct contributions from transport and land tunnel programs are to be carried out, and traffic receipts can finance the resulting costs. However, this vision is largely unformed, and this is the same as it is when it comes to cooperation projects; it is important to get clear answers to specific factors, e.g. the impact of government funds, the timing of government contributions, a clear view of public costs, and the implementation of currency. It is very important in my opinion that there will be perfect transparency regarding the rules that will be developed and put into practice on each project and that equality will be kept to the best of its ability. This is work that we are, despite all the hard work that has been put into things and despite how far we've been able to squeeze it together, to press a little bit ahead of us. We're discussing two other issues related, especially the so-called PPP issue, which will be due to the final session in the next few days, and I assume that these matters will be discussed in detail. The impact of rapid imaging technology can have on the greater potential for measuring and reporting traffic and how good it can then have on structure and development. Clearly, linking imaging with a driver's license can give you much more detailed information on traffic distribution, more accurate than previously understood. You can see where it comes from, where it is going, when, how cars are driving, and where it comes from, and so on. This sounds very good when we consider the construction of transport workers. But we must not forget that behind traffic there are people, there are individuals, and what we really are saying is that we can monitor each individual, through registration of a car, is going, where he is coming from, when he is coming, how often and how he owns a car. Then all of a sudden, it sounds a little more dangerous than just that we're looking at traffic. It's just that way. Although it is conclusive that this information can give important and practical insight into the composition and flow of traffic, we must remember and bear in mind here in this hall that the collection of such information is also a very important intervention in the personal rights of road users, especially if the situation is not knowing that they are not aware that we are collecting this information. That's where my bad spirit lies. We must be very careful, and at the Council, we must have a good cooperation with Perlon protection to ensure that the highest conditions of the protection laws are respected. It is necessary to have a broad public presentation on the extent of these assessments as well as to explain the availability of this information. It is very important that this is not some postam that we set up when the case is becoming mature, that we call a prince of Peronist to one meeting, listen to them scold us and praise us and reform us. This case is too big for such practices, which we've developed a bit when it comes to personal protection. Then I'd like to mention, just to make a case, that in the opinion of the greater part, the committee feels strongly that the management security of the Reykjavík airport is in line with the agreement between the secretary of transportation and the local government and the mayor for research on the possibility of a new airport construction of the Vatican since November 2019. I don't have this long sentence coming from me. It's in my opinion. This is just right, and it is important to respect an agreement because it is important to respect it. But I think it is appropriate to use this opportunity to also remind you that the basis of this agreement, what the parties really agreed on, is that the current flight activity at Reykjavík's airport should be transferred to a new airport in Hassusun, proves to be a promising option. The important thing to me is that this particular agreement does not override the agreement of the 2013 Minister of Internal Affairs and Mayors that the Ministry and Istavia provided the preemption of a new location in the vicinity of the city. I understand, and it came to the meetings of the environment and transportation committees with the mayors and transport secretary, that over the next five years, a new training course and training course will be established so that the far contact landings that will take place at Reykjavíkurfield will no longer be there. So that is another agreement that is natural to set out in this whole program. Then I'd like to take this opportunity, and it's part of my warning, and mention one thing that I think is important, that the presence of the local representatives will be more or possibly more formal when it comes to the priorities of transport projects. I say this because the committee held a number of meetings with local representatives, as usual, many. There was no lack of the time the committee gave them to listen to the representatives. Company representatives are either representative of a single unit or a member of a unit that is somehow classified down, come prepared. It was a little small, so they pulled an old list out of their pocket, natural, and especially the way they have been carrying a transport plan in recent years. But what I'm specifically referring to here is that although many of the emphasises observed by the rural communities have turned into the work of the Committee on transport programmes, and certainly many of these rural communities generally have good relations with the Vega, they have wanted a group of rural partners to meet together to meet up with us because they have settled in on their own priorities. It's not every unit that brings something, it's just that they all agree that there's one rural society out there that's basically next in line, they've got priorities. When it comes to such community approach, I feel that it should be our competition here to accept, if possible, and to make such a decision, sort of to the rural community, if possible. I think that's important. If they get together in this way, I simply don't feel that we should have any other view of them except in special cases, where there is a greater interest. I'm making this up here, I think it's part of the advance, that I'm trying to make their arrival in some way. On the other hand, I give my advance notice of satisfaction with a happy cohesion within the environment and transport committees for the aims and priorities of this extensive transport programme, both for the 20200/2024 and for the 2020/2002034, though it is certainly the nature of the situation because of a clearer nature. The financial uncertainty due to the pandemic of Covid-19 greatly complicated the criteria but also further contributed to the importance of maintaining effective implementation in the coming years. I believe the Committee has successfully faced this special situation, especially in the part of 2024. As discussed by the head of the case, a contract plan is properly based on financial plans. But now the situation is that because of the Covid epidemic, there will be no budget to be submitted until October 1. As a result, real changes in this transport program have not been made because the budget is not completely clear. In these years, about 60 billion investment initiatives are discussed and can be assumed, according to what has been shown, that much of the transport is taking place. The majority of the committee involved in this view will do so, as the leading authority of the case will be. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, studied in his speech yesterday, setting priorities for the three years. Any luck after this additional effort becomes part of the autumn financial program, the committee will submit a new proposal. These are the suggestions that rest on the much work of the committee. I would like to at the end of this discussion that in view of present circumstances, there is good reason to speed up transport activities further and to use the opportunity to highlight innovation and development with emphasis on environmental transport, because that is the way ahead. There would be a very important part in the restoration of the economy. I am confident that the discussion on these issues and decisions will take place in connection with a financial program in this fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u21	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the senator for the fine tour, but I'd like to ask her a few questions. She only reasoned on the tensions that sometimes seem to exist between those who feel that they are defending the interests of more scattered settlements and those who speak for the interests of Reykjavík, as if these are incompatible interests. This will be reflected in a number of discussions, with great emphasis on respecting the agreement that has been made, as if for some other purpose. This suspicion is most apparent in connection with a treaty made between the rural areas in the capital area and the State in building a city line and various institutions in the capital area. But what is it like when we read, for example? changes the proposal for a greater part of the environment and transport committee, suggested in the five-year schedule that contributions to the surface maintenance of the runway and to the tray at Reykjavík's airport will be 1.113 million. K. An extra? If you put yourself in this position of suspicion, it'll work a little bit as if there's not a full sincerity behind the state's declared will that the airport will leave as soon as there's a better or just as good chance. If there are more than one billion in construction on these airports, how can you imagine writing off that investment in just a few years, the few years we thought were a policy to move the airport? Has this been discussed specifically in the committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u22	Welcome to the Reykjavík airport. It's good for him to get on the schedule in this discussion. When we talk about this survey, we may find it a little difficult to do all the talking about it. It is now assumed that over the next two years, the possibility of Whaleshause will be clarified. If the next survey is not needed, the only thing that is documented is that airports are to go. But the nature of the situation requires that the airport be rotten until then, and there really isn't a person's opinion at the airport around, hopefully not, but the importance of domestic flights. As I've understood, this is a necessary project so that the airport can live up to its name in the 1 9 to 15 years that it remains in its place. However, in the case of the Supreme Court, it has also been clear. A secretary of transportation has found the Environmental and Transport Committee that it is not going to happen, as I think the word was, money for something that is not to be used. So, first of all, I prefer to assume that this will not be realized before the final result comes from these two years of research and the situation will be resumed there, i.e. ... theexploitation. But that's right, it's hard, especially because of the problem. A senator here stated that an agreement must be held. The linking point in this approach is that mine knows that it is a little difficult to make an agreement about opinions. It'll always be a little ecstatic if someone else is good enough to put in. Followers that the airport is exactly the same, since it is often spoken of as pressing and not having an agreement. But I think it becomes tiresome how much people can find new places and new ideas all the way to avoid in the power of knowing that while they don't get an agreement, the airport where it is will be. So it's not quite simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u23	A respectable president. Yes, I totally understand that a minister doesn't want to throw money at something that's not supposed to be standing. If we take that time frame as a dog. A senator mentions, 10 or 15 years, until a new airport scene is found, that would mean that the last of those $1,13 billion will be spent in maintenance at the present airport, thus reluctant to find new options will be reduced least in these projects. But I just wanted to take a look at what the senator mentioned on the subject of imaging, remembering that it called what is a very interesting subject not merely the provision of transportation, as is often mentioned. There is some vision that we may need to deal with at some point, but it is much closer to us in time and right now a practitioner's speed monitoring. The average speed monitoring is something the Roadmaker has been planning for probably five years to set up instead of staging the phone monitoring done by automatic boxes or police. It raises the same personal protection questions as to whether to screen all cars that pass by a camera and, in fact, assume that they are potentially breaking songs and then checking the length of time until they pass by the next dot. There's a huge surveillance that would be set up there, and I just want to listen to a senator's wiretap if that episode was discussed on the committee recently, not just in the matter of payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u24	Mr. President. Yeah, this is very interesting. This was not specifically discussed, and in fact, this technological development was not specifically discussed in terms of reimbursement; nor was it an excellent opportunity for the reasonable structure of transport workers, which is, of course, right in some respects. But there are also numerators, rather than chasing each car down, so there are other ways to do so. But, of course, you're right. The idea of the road model is to stop running too fast but that all drivers are measured, if they're too early to go somewhere else on the road, they're going too fast. Of course, this calls for a very mature discussion, and particularly that people are informed that this is being done and that there are very clear rules on who has access to it, in which case and how long this data will be stored. There must be a very detailed discussion of these matters in the first place. Not long ago, the so - called MAU was approved by a new and captured law on personal protection, which was consulted by a Trinitarian Protector. It has been more in word than on a table, and more often than not, it is some post - thought that there is a Persian protection, often when it is too late to respond to the comments it brings. Thus, all this discussion is very good, it is good to have them with us from the very beginning and make it as useful as possible, with the use of technology in investments and to make sure that we do not have too much intervention in people's personal freedoms. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u25	Mr. President. After a considerable amount of work and considerable research and a joyful partnership with an environment and transport committee, there is a five-year transport programme. We know that the foundation was laid, as it were, 2019, with the preordaining that this policy of the administrations would be reviewed in some of the conversities in the year followed by this year. There were significant changes in transport plans, especially in the committee opinion, and we know that this document will be revised again, so there is certainly a living plan, a living document. Our traffic system, more than 2,000 miles long, is expensive. The financial needs of more than 500 billion, 4,500 billion, are being considered to be a very good or reasonable place for most of the country's roads. In my opinion, it calls out special solutions, and we have to expect a considerable amount of time to do this project and some people's patience, especially in the remoter parts of the country, will try as far as we can. This is an accumulated problem in part because of circumstances that I am not going to trace even if I mention only the many - scale failure and its consequences. When working out, then, the key point is that progress is rapid and then new or revised priorities, such as always considered. These solutions, which I call special solutions, are varied but are especially relevant to the financing of the workers, of course, because they have some of the knife in the cow. I'm here to discuss a few key lines of transportation. I'm not going to go to the Committee, it's been done very carefully, and others have introduced themselves to the committee, but I'm going to go over the main lines of a transport program and start looking to the economy. She's a two-way. On the one hand, it's the profits of a car owner, mostly a company, a business manager, and we can call most people. He's in the form of a profit from these adjustments and projects. It is sometimes calculated in time, sometimes in harsh money. On the other hand, the social wide profit is also in a transport program. Another thing I wanted to say is security. We have waved the number 50 or 60 billion each year, which is the cost of accidents and road damage. That's a huge amount. I'd like to mention the climate. They are visible to us because much of the work being done is short of distances. It's public transportation that we believe is important to climate and energy change itself. Although transport is not a mere energy exchange strategy, I'm going to say, as a result of a transport process, energy exchange is important in this context. Then it's what opens up, including due to the energy exchange, i.e. innovation. We here, for example. Making large quantities of biofuel, so I'll give you one example. Well, that's where it's at. It is well - known, then, that our health system and our school system are thus built up that transportation is of enormous importance. So I'm not just talking about the root system, I'm talking about roads and local roads, holding the snow, maybe even winding in winter. Above all, it is a tunnel. It is advertised after a reenactment of a tunnel plan. There is a very rough schedule where the prices are marked several places, 101⁄215 tunnels or so, and freely review where they can be located, etc. There is much work to do in creating a much more satisfying tunnel plan and, in that case, discussing loading a tunnel. Then I want to look at public transportation, i.e. The flight. We view domestic flight as part of a public transportation. That's where the classification system needs to be redesigned. There is an idea in the program where we sort the country's airport into a number of categories. We need to think of the international flight on the way because some of these airports are, of course, an airfield. In view of the flight policy, it's being attached much better than it's been done so far. More important, a major relief is being made in a flying tour. It covers a so-called EGNOOS system that is based on satellites and does not have to install all kinds of knowledge or such at airports itself, but uses modern technology. In this regard the will of the committee is very clear. The ships are underneath, too. There are significant improvements due to both fishing and, especially, the exports and freight transports within the country. They are given something refreshing, and at the same time, they begin to plan for their electricalization. Electricisation is two kinds: There is an electricisation that fits the smaller boats and ships on what we call the low - tension distribution system, but there is also another form of electricalization that is supporting the transport system, where the need is much greater and is thought for large ships and even cruise vessels. All of this is part of a transport program. Then there's the other part of the public transportation, i.e. on wheels, for the whole country, the coordination of vehicles, whether known as squares, flies, or cars. Into it is the transport contract for the capital area, which we often call the capital contract. It considered the solution to start a business where the State and the local communities in the capital area agree to solve a huge task that is moving public transportation and traffic into the capital area in the modern world. It is also a matter of thinking about charges. This is not to be neglected because these cases are solved in a large number of ways, e.g. in our neighboring countries, where long - term expenses have been paid for for 20 years in certain cities. A large proportion of them have gone to preconceived traffic, slow traffic, and, above all, to build up even a 3-fold or 4-fold greater public transport system. These are all case groups that get more money in this transport program. The infrastructure involved is one of the best investments society can make as soon as we're talking about the system structure and the level of employment in society following the Covid pandemic. This really happens with three rounds, i.e. the injection will be given in the initial version of the transport program, with additional funds. Then comes another injection through an investment plan or campaign associated with the storm during December, which is often called an investment campaign 2020-22023. Then there are about 6.5 billion people who respond to the epidemic. After all, it's pretty handsome. I'd like to give you the cooperation projects that are a major disagreement here at the council, what we call a PPP project. People have sometimes asked what this three p's doing. When countries and private people come together in different proportions according to cooperation work and are very well known in many parts of the world, it is ▪Private Partnership Project in English, as shown here. There are six such projects. Four of these are the kind we can call a project that the Roadmaker knows how to do and is now working on. They are very different; bridges, bridges, roads, tunnels, and kind of mountain roads, etc. They are suitable for, in part, the experimental activity here, by setting up such a cooperation project in Iceland. This is an attempt to learn how to perform such projects under the very sponsorship of the Roadmaker and Ministry. This is an attempt to enable more people in the community to make this initial quickness possible. To me it's important, and it's also important that the workers become citizens after a certain number of years, 30 years. In this way we are fulfilling the ideals I have associated with the fact that much of my transportation is being done on a social foundation. All of this has to do with expenses. It's very strange that when you talk about paying them, they start, like Pavlovur's dog at its time, a saying of spells. This is called a curse, which is a natural very negative word and hides the facts that I intend to go through a little after. But, in fact, there are two kinds of charges: we have what I call a base tax now called fuel and oil tax. Power exchange has to change. Whether it's gonna be a mile fee or not, I don't know. However, this work is being done by the Ministry and Specialist and is being revised in the overall system of transport. In this comes what I call a special fee. It can be some kind of road, it can be a bridge, it can be a tunnel, or some particular project. And the special fee there, as in those curses, if we use the negative word that is found in the base of the budget, is really the benefit of the vehicle or transport equipment. And why is that? Clearly, it is. We have discussed the safety issues, and what will require additional safety for the individual? That's a good question. 100 bucks, 200 bucks, 500 bucks. on some particular distance. This is a matter of short - tailed distances, which, of course, bring good results to the natural climate, are more efficient roads than are, but it is also important because there is less energy to go through the roads. It's also worth a hundred times. It's less maintenance of machines, it's time, time is money, it's less driving, etc. More important, the construction of public transport can be called a reminder. It is partially for at least one of the perks then e.g. within the capital area. When all of this is evaluated, this approach, the actual cost of driving will be to be expected. It's no use looking at the gas gauge. You have to figure out how much it costs to drive every mile. As you know, it can reach 50 bucks. in a mile [150 k] after a car's type. by car type, so I'll do a loose example. When you look at this, my argument about curses falls apart. Anyway, Mr. President. I'm not going to extend my case very much. I just want to come up with the consequences of the epidemic, which is probably making us the game that we have to break up for maybe 500 billion. This calls for additional transport revenues, which we are making by activeing the public more in direct financial resources, as was done in the old days when they were paying up the Chefavour Way at 50 k. on you, but not on extra debt. We are not necessarily going to contribute another 100, 150, or 200 billion to sustain transportation, but in other ways, as I have been trying to describe it. This transport program, between five and 15 years of age, is a major component in the community and is, in my opinion, a highly progressive document. This is, as I have remembered before, the environment. It's urban. It's urban. It's a financial system, it's a welfare matter, it's cultural. It is proved by a review of the majority of the views here, and in part reflects solidarity, in spite of warnings and minorities, which was achieved in this excellent environmental and transport committee I am in. So a transport plan is to me some kind of Edda. I've written here for social projects on the infrastructure. It's a small Bible for us to work until the next revision, and it's here for the General, finally, a second time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u26	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his excellent speech and a review of the transport plan or such provisions before the council. It is true that the budget is quite extensive and important for future policy and transport policies. Of course, there's always one thing in the eye of such large cops, and maybe I'll go over it in a talk later today. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on a matter I know won't surprise him that I'm asking questions. It's this city line line all over the place. You wonder, what an enormous project this is! Very ambitious, so to speak, when we see not only its scope but also all its costs. You have to admit, it's very ambitious to put such a big job on the table. But I am deeply concerned that people don't really know where they're going to stop at the expense of the project. That's why I'm asking. Councilman: Is there a cost plan that sets up the total cost at the city line? Has, for example. making a profit - making assessment of the project? Hv. A senator did quite a bit of justifying the roads and private projects that left greens may not have been known to support over the years, but now the class is fully on its own and premiums. This must be the basis for interest in the city line when it can be said to be beneficial. I would also like to ask, What is expected to be the high cost of operating each year at this city line?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u27	Mr. President. I appreciate your inquiry, and I know that the city line is supposed to be the hot part of this transport program. I think that when an agreement is made about a city line - or not a city line, I must correct myself, i.e. Made up in the Big Rygies. This, of course, is much more than the city line alone. We can call this city line to our thoughts, and we know what we're talking about. We're talking about an agreement between all the rural communities in the capital area and the state, and the price tag is somewhere between 110◯120 billion. To achieve this, no one can sit down and calculate the interest estimates by themselves. It is also a work of cooperation by its members, so different stagework forms have been developed for what is now needed to continue building up. What would be gotten with the city line as it is in its most massive image by its three ways and all its activities, mauling, decomposition, track, etc.? There's a combination of this. True, the project has been framed but the sort of cost assessment, let's say for a new light control which is paid for about Seven billion people can't go on until this phenomenon has been developed and the work is done by individuals. This is similar to the PPP projects. Both cases are opening up for a solution, but the output itself remains in part. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u28	Mr. President. In other words, it is thought that the total project will be 1,100,120 billion. They have not, however, come to a conclusion as to the scene, such as the night. A senator described the way to go exactly. You have no idea what your entire project will cost you. People have no idea what the benefits will be because they have not already chosen a stage to follow. Then there's a very special explanation. This cannot be calculated until this company has been formed. I'm just asking, "Who's going to go along the way to make a commitment to state funds and rural society and to start a society without really knowing what the final outcome will be, whether this will pay for the total cost, whether it will pay for it or whether it will result in making money? ' Nor do men seem to agree on how to calculate the cost of operating from all these projects. In fact, the Council is expected to accept a transport program with some kind of promise of this city line and implementation in the capital area. You're supposed to accept a so-called co-work guide, as it's been called here. In that room, there are tasks that I'm not going to say are light years away but very far away, which also seem to have been calculated or planned. A partner should also be formed, which should be a prerequisite for a project that has not been evaluated. It's as if everything's coming to an end, Mr. President. It is a very important responsibility if, perhaps with the support of someone else, the government groups are going to make a commitment to a government fund in this way and send it out into complete uncertainty about this project. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u29	▪ Man has no idea which way to go, as they say. Senator. It's just wrong. They know exactly which way they're going to go. They're going to land a city line of electrically powered machines, three roads through the city, and into their neighboring communities. The total share has been precisely calculated. Certain scenarios have been checked and calculated. There are assessments of social, climate, and other consequences of these actions. And what's more, it's absolutely true that when it comes to these co-works, there's a waterway and maybe a whale tunnel somewhere far ahead. However, the other four have different routes of preparation and, for example, of preparation. You can start at the bridge over Elfheiður very soon. So it is quite wrong for a person to be misled. What's uncomfortable for many people is that there's a new route where you can't figure out from the first day, before the start, all the conversions of the case, speech, even operating costs of e.g. City line. It is very easy to get information about the cost of a particular car every mile, etc., it's not the case, it's about to estimate the basic cost, to decide which way to go, and it's done. [[The president calls.]] This agreement exists and it will hold.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u30	A respectable president. We'll discuss what may be the biggest plans the government makes in this country, a five - year transport program, and a 15 - year - old. It was the least that an executive considered more part of the environment and transportation committee forgot to use the line he always uses when transportation is occurring, which is a line that I'm so fond of. It's already a dog. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason says that transportation is a health matter because traffic safety is important to the public, less traffic pollution, and so on. As you would expect, this new transport program is being proclaimed a significant improvement in security. It will be good to see behind the many tiny bridges that stand to be removed and covered on streams and rivers safely. Similarly, it will be good to see a variety of mountain roads, which can be harmful in winters and dangerous accordingly, either improved or replaced by tunnels or other routes. It is not only the largest well - being issue, but it is also in recent years even more the major climate issue because the foundation for today's transport program will be the basis for traffic in this country after decades, far into the predictable commitments of all future climate agreements. It may be nice to mention this right now when the news that Iceland has everything to do with its commitment to the Kyoto Convention. During this year's period of debt to Iceland, to reduce emissions by 20% compared with 1990, it aims to increase emissions by 30%. That's not a good result. The EEA's latest annual report covering 2018 shows a 2.7% increase in emissions from road transport between 2017 and 2018. This is of great importance to us because by means of road transport, about one third of the emissions directly on the government's responsibility to deal with, that is, outside any international emissions - like the big business. This is what mainly the State, in cooperation with rural areas, has to be solved, but in 2017 and 2018 we went in the wrong direction. Thus, a 2020 transport program will need to focus on the fact that we are not facing a decade of increasing emissions again so that we do not measure up to the commitment of the Paris Convention that begins to take over. In other words, we are building a foundation for success by today's development of future travel. What may be the largest scale on the scales in the transport program here is a city line that has the ability to reduce emissions into the most densely populated areas of the country, the capital area, by moving some of the traffic from private cars to public transportation. But more is needed, and the overall impact of the programme needs to be assessed. Mr. President. I am not tired of reminding myself of the good words that are being said by the board's cooperative declaration on climate control. It says, in a chapter beginning with the statement that the government wants to do better than the Paris Convention, by permission of the president: The government aims for the evaluation of all the larger government plans based on climate targets. It's just never done. This does not mean that we need to know exactly what emissions will be carried out for us or exactly what will be done in carrying out the changes in the policy pattern we are going to take, but there is not even an attempt to estimate the rough principles in this program, as was done a year ago when a plan was submitted. It's very pathetic. It is very difficult, when we look ahead and lay the basis for future travel that must be green for us to survive our commitments, that we cannot tell whether the net effect of that transport program, when all is taken care of, is positive or negative to climate. I mentioned here that the city line and the growth of public transport were a powerful tool to reduce emissions. The implementation is linked with an agreement made between the state and the rural community at the national capital area for the construction of transport infrastructure in the area for 15 years, a agreement that could have been assessed by climate impact, as well as the time being implemented at the same time as the city line implementation, is proposed by various traditional urban frameworks that can increase transport emissions, and thus we do not know whether the potential recovery from the city line is possible. That, on its own, is a measure of concern, but then, when more parts of the environment and transport committee add a waterway to the transport program previously just mentioned in the report, the situation is even worse. As discussed in this discussion, a waterway is being under consideration for decades, but it has not yet been discussed, which cannot be done to increase overall traffic in the capital area through an extended demand. Before setting them into a transport program, it would be preferable to replace them with free ends. Also, during Sunday discussions, I have observed that there is a measure of suspicion concerning the government in the capital area and perhaps in particular from Reykjavíkurburg, who in one of the previous talks was said to be opposed to the Dizziness Way and have shown some sort of organizational violence, as it was called. The idea is still uncontaminated that we do not know whether it would improve or not. An analysis of how similar investments in other transport methods could bring benefits to society has not been made. The main and main reason for this development is what it fits well into the team of cooperation projects discussed in the bill on the Environment and Transport Committee, called the PPP bill. There seems to be a lot of solution in search of a problem to resolve. The problem that the PPP bill should solve is unclear. It seems above all to be thinking of putting financial commitments into practice beyond the basics of the state in order to meet some guidelines on official financial matters. Environmental and Transport Committee reviews from the Ministry of Economics points out that not even this bookwork trick seems to be working out, at least Not all of the projects mentioned, so although some of them will have to be carried out on a PPP project, whether or not it is an amendment and a debt to the A-part State Fund, so the trick does not work. This is what all the evidence shows is more expensive than a clean state, up to a third, and it's falling out of the context of the priorities presented in a transport program. A protocol is about setting priorities on a national basis, but PPP works as a basis for some financial basis under individual projects that determine whether or not they are set forward in the order. I feel that there's something wrong with shooting at the same time as that. is suggested in the transport program under discussion that a special geograph program, which is a very pleasant development, seen very far into the future; a vision of the diagnosis and priorities of funerals, which will be attacked on the basis of social views. Also, there are smaller things that I would like to take steps only in connection with how this transport program plays together in other ways with government policy. I read here, by permission of the President: ▪ The EEA stresses that the government's plans for energy change and climate change will take into account transport plans and transport infrastructure. Then there are car rents, heavy transports on the land, electricalizations, and other things. I feel that these regimens draw together in a certain way that we are starting wrong ends because a policy strategy is to take into account energy change and climate change programmes. It's supposed to be working in a much greater conjunction. That these sentences appear here and forts as they start on the wrong end may reveal better than many other desirable features of the climate assessment program, because if we create a transport program for the 15 years that it is due to apply, which are five years longer than the bound period of the Paris Convention, it must be carried out, not only in accordance with the government's policies on energy change and climate change. There may be some of the tools under which this is needed, but without analysis it is difficult to tell whether the net effect will be good or not, and since it is 2020, it is a sad situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u31	Mr. President. This policy, to evaluate climate impacts on all major programmes, is a very noble goal. And, in fact, I accept criticism. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's own of us, not to provide such an estimate - this is an experiment to self - criticism. I am, however, of the opinion that the net effect on transport is in our best interests, in the interests of climate, in the interests of the battle against climate change that we are applying, which, in turn, are combined with positive effects against increased emissions. It is significant in such projects, i.e. use of minerals, concrete, heavy machinery, etc. I have to say, I have a lot of success but with very much long work and it's quite complicated to present yourself with future statistics simply because there are so many things in there, not just traffic, not just ports, flights, or anything, all kinds of movements, carbon fuels, but everything that is in a negative state of self-making. So I would solve this by presenting a synonym proposal for this work to be carried out for the next re-evaluation of transport programmes. I'm asking if the Senator would agree with me that this case would be a good solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u32	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. That's what it's all about. A senator puts it, saying that he feels that the net effect is positive, reflects the problem we are in when numbers are not over. Then it depends on how people have read through the document and on the basis they have to determine whether they will benefit from it or not. That is why I thought it was such a good suggestion in the government covenant, to evaluate all the larger plans based on climate goals. I completely agree with the senator that this calls for a great deal of work. But the work behind a transport program is also very much. I think the addition to meeting these conditions of the Law covenant should not be that much of the above. With regard to the idea of presenting a synoptic decree to do what is said to be done in an almost three - year - old government contract - yes, of course, it is fine that the government is under clear authority to enforce it. However, this should not be necessary, for it is one of the groups who agreed to make the winter of 2017/2018 when the government was formed. But if the senator does work out suggestions to push people about it, of course, I support them, even though it's a very difficult time for us to find it necessary to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u33	Mr. President. I'm reiterate what I said it's a very big project. I'm not sure that we had finished all of this in just a few months, we could probably have come to the same conclusion I was trying to show up here, that it was probably or definitely net-positive. I just want to point out that we don't have an overview of domestic emissions either. There's 100 million in here. K. ...for five years to cover that project, so I think it's like this. I'd like to come on to the PPP for a minute. This is quick access to selected tasks. Of course, there are ways to speed up assignments. Here we are trying to speed up the task by means of this specific method. This may be vague because some of them are actually not explained until agreements between the state and the source are made. I think it's kind of cheap to call it accounting effects, for the government sector envelopes were generally positive, i.e. if you are consulted and the risk of these activities is considered objective. So I ask, why don't we trust them to appreciate these projects as a match and to view them in part as an attempt to adapt such a PPP project to Icelandic reality?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u34	A respectable president. The Senator pointed out that there are some things we need an overview, such as. On land greenhouse gas emissions It's something that I used to come up very often when I worked in a group that prepared the data for prosperity, another measure of social development but only economic growth, that when we examined the fields of the three standards that make up sustainable development, there were figures for social development, there were fine suggestions for economic development, but when it came to environmentally, we had only a very small number of numbers that are updated in a routine and solid way so that they could be put into such perspective. This shows how long the environment has been peripheral, which I know has been. A senator knows people best. Now, all it has to do is get better and look at it in various ways to improve. For the PPP projects, the legal process is the financing route. It's about setting up projects against the A-part of the state's budget so the government won't get into trouble over the government's government law on public finances. There's some pure religion that I just don't have. It is said that this is a very intense transport project, but it is different, the six discussed in the bill, from an idea level, which would require years of work to be the centre that even should not go to it. So, yes, there's something very important and excellent work to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u35	A respectable president. We will discuss the next five years of transport plan here. There's a lot in the transport program, and I think there's good reason to thank you. The environment and transport committee for its work in these areas. Of course, walking is huge, as we have said, security and geographic matters. We are a small nation in a large country, and transportation is very important to us. In fact, I plan to spend my time discussing only transportation in the capital area because I know that all the land is being handled, and many have done it very well. I have said so in this chair of public speaking, and this is true, unfortunately, the capital area has been overlooked in recent years when it comes to new transport funds. I have a written answer from the 2017 secretary of transportation that shows, if I take up a new budget, that only 16% of the new budget went to the capital area, which is, of course, amazing when it's about 70% of the country's population. I think most of the people come here once a year, if not much more often, and most tourists travel through this area. This does not mean that 70% of transportation should go to the capital area, of course, I realize that our country is big and, of course, all of us want safe and easy and safe transportation around the country. It is different, however, to plan transportation beyond the rest of the world. This requires a different approach. That is why it is so important that it is properly cooperated with the rural areas in the capital area, which, of course, operates with organizational authority. I don't get tired of saying that I think there's a reason why we keep in mind that we're always talking into the long future. According to the regional structure in the capital area, the population is expected to increase by 70,000 people until 2040. To put this into context, we can take all Hafnarfjördur and Kopavog and half of Garville as well. It's not like we're just looking at the situation as it is now and trying to fix it, we're looking for the future. It is quite clear that if transport activity in the capital area is not major, the quality of life of the capital is severely reduced because traffic is increasing each year. That's why the capital contract is so important. Of course, the rural areas in this region have been covered by organizational matters - transportation is a huge organizational issue - and how best and practical for improving the quality of life that is available to people and to make it possible for them to cross places without being stuck in cars for hours and, of course, to support the building of city society. That's why I felt that it was important to hear it when it was the highest. This proposal was made by a secretary of transportation to accept the need for a different approach. Here we may be talking about the need for some kind of rooting. We're talking about powerful public transportation, high - quality culture transportation, and a approach to people but in many other places. I am very happy to see that the transport sector has entered the transport program and that it is very important that we keep up - to - date when it comes to that work. Tables in the transport program can often be a little complicated, but I was getting together to see what the proportion of new money would be over the years to the capital area. It seems to me that there is more than 40% in the next five years that there must be a lot more normal than what has been before. I have heard members of the council here criticize it and find it hard to give up in some way power into a covenant and into a society to hold on to it. The practice is different and legal in terms of road control is picked up to do what is to be done. I've been talking about the fact that we really needed a special transport plan for the capital area because I think it's such a different subject. I feel as if we're getting closer with the transport contract, so I can especially do it. I think it's really important. It's not just the city line to be held. It is about finding a practical and reasonable way to build a wide range of transportation that fosters the freedom of the individuals in this area, freedom of choice of how to get around. In this way, money is being placed not only on traditional products that can, for example, be taken into consideration. It is also an important part of the problem, but it is much the same as seeing other active methods of transportation, such as bicycle riding, and the city line that I do not tire of saying is an extremely important part of this vision. In this discussion about the city line, both in discussions about the transport plan, and also in another matter, which I hope later we will be putting up with, which is about starting a business relationship with this transport contract, at times the point that we have failed to achieve any success. It's as if we can't have public transportation here because we must be so completely, completely different from any other community around us, which, of course, is a total nonsense. We just look more like a lot of other communities. I think it's so good to remember that in all this basic work on urban planning and ideologies, there is an area very similar to the size of the capital area. There's nothing going on with New York or Copenhagen or London. We're just watching similar urban communities in Norway, Denmark and elsewhere. It has always been thrown out that there are only 4% of people taking bus. It should be acknowledged that we have not reached enough travel rate by public transportation. However, we should not forget that the problem we are dealing with is the speed of traffic during rush hour. At the highest traffic jam at rush time, the proportion in the much bus is nearly 30 to40%. After all, on the Grand Way, between the clocks. 8 and 9 or the second part between 3:30 and 4:30 is much higher. People can only imagine, if we didn't have that service, what the situation would be on the streets. There's also been a considerable debate here on public transportation, the city line, the cost strategy behind this in business, and so on. I said in an antiquated solution the other day that you could compare this to the construction of the Land Hospital, how the cost of operating the Land Hospital will be after they arrive in a new high - tech hospital. We are actually just talking about building up the setting around this service, and of course the cost depends on the frequency of our trip. Above all, we gain greater practicality in running public transportation when it is possible to drive in a special space. That's why it's so important that it's all part of this great organization where society is allowed to promote its views. I think the key to achieving some results is the cooperation of society and state. That's why I'm so happy. I also feel very important that we are talking about future transportation. Transport patterns are changing. The economic system is getting very strong into transportation. But it's not that we're flying around here on cars, probably never, at least not in the near future, so we still need space to get between places, no matter how we do it, whether it's got buses in private space or buses in conventional roads, private cars, shared cars, bicycles, runners, or on foot. It is so important that all of this work is viewed as a variety of people's means of travel and freedom of choice. I'd also like to mention Sunwater because I think it's a very important project. Still, I don't organize the waterway in the main order of importance, it doesn't solve the problems in today's capital area. Nevertheless, I still believe that the waterway is a long - term, long - term process of transportation. I think it's an ideal project on a top-of-the-art project that we don't put any government money on because we're supposed to use it in building a city line and other important projects. It would be really exciting to see if any people out there would be interested in designing these things, bringing the solutions, what they think is most practical, financed, and conduct a swimming track against getting paid for an X time for those who choose to drive that way. Eventually, the human race would flow to the State. I've told you that I have a proposal for this fine case that I may offer in case of a failure to perform this assignment. I hope, however, that it will soon be carried out as a cooperation project on the road, called PPP projects. But I want to reiterate my vision on the Sunway, I don't think there should be anything to be a company project of state and private people, but I should just take them out and let those who trust in it and are interested in going on that project, because it's a huge project, and it's gonna cost a considerable amount of money. Then we make sure that money is spent on projects like the city line and the ones in the capital contract today rather than on projects like the Sunday. I'm not gonna have this any further. Thank you. The environment and transport committee for work, it's good. Now we need to make sure that the funding is in line with the transport plan and that the projects of the capital contract will be carried out in all the years ahead, since that is the best of all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u36	A respectable president. Hv. A senator mentioned a road program for the capital area, which I found very interesting. I spoke of it not being a complete communication plan, as we will discuss here, except that it is made up of e.g. The transport plan of the capital area, the Southland transport plan, or the Southnes ', which includes the transport of parts of the country, and that we are actually going the cause, the planning, the right to make a decision toward the community so that it can decide for itself the priorities it wants. And what we do is take care of the financing, so it's clear that the funding is coming from here and that we are at the same time not using our fingers in the priorities of the individual parts of the country. You see, we have experience from doing tasks jumping to and from the list, which has caused tensions in various ways and has, for example, caused stress. ... thegeneraladversity of rural society, etc. A 25 - year - long tunnel, if not more, will be delayed because it has always been tampered with with with its priorities rather than with the country's decision to put on costly projects for the future and to gather them for it or something like that. Who knows? I wanted to think about that idea with a little bit of what it was. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I've mentioned it here several times if it was not a reason to have a special transport plan for the capital area. Perhaps that is because I have looked at the speciality of the area. This is a relatively small area, if you consider the whole country, in which very many people live, and that is one area of employment, so that transport improvements on a grandway are changing, for example. The inhabitants of Mosfellsville may be just as relevant as the people of Seltiannes because we all shelter in this area almost every day. But in larger parts of the country, the interests are natural only others. A person has more to do with transportation in his own community than with all the Western or West Side. That is why I have considered it proper to look especially to the capital area. Yet, a very positive trend has taken place throughout the country, a part of the country has joined together in setting priorities. I think it matters very important to us members of the country that they are strong and that they have the ability to work at that part of the country. The best thing to do is to get some sort of reconciliation about setting priorities. Then I agree that sometimes it may make more sense that we here, above all, are the funds and design and management of projects, but let the local people pay more attention to the priorities they have agreed on. Finally. I was really happy when it happened. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé told me that the PPP project bill has come out of the committee, so I'm glad you can discuss it here later this week, or at least at the beginning of the next week.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u38	A respectable president. Generally speaking, this is a good social plan that I can really support, but there are a few things I need to make comments about. At first, I have adjustments for 15 - year - old goals. First, there is an adjustment proposal regarding the area of Reykjavík, where I propose to take the ticket to the airport as soon as possible, but the airport can still continue to serve in a reasonable way until the new airport has been built. The change is to add the words as soon as possible, because there was now a vote in Reykjavík that the airport should go, and we should, of course, follow the results of a direct democracy as we can. At the same time, we must perform the ministry expected from an airport on the capital area. The next adjustment is that the words of the collection of road fees, which fall away to factor 2,3.10 of section 2, 3, will be considered in a variety of ways to finance large projects, including: in cooperation with private agents and with collections of roads. I suggest to collect the tributes away, I consider it to be unnecessary in that context. There's a separate PPP project, but I give them a different understanding, it's a little different, in this regard. I'm going to discuss these PPP projects, where and when there is room for cooperation, or ◯Public Private Partnership, as this project is implemented in English, cooperation projects in Icelandic. It's only discussed in the opinion of the greater part, but I have a few things to consider. The management board is to set up the priority list of transport projects that evaluate various kinds of views, such as cohesion and environmental considerations. Personalists taking on PPP projects do not look at such views. Their sole objective is to complete the project and receive the money it can pay for its use. Of course, there may be differences in interest, but the cost of payment is minimal. On the other hand, the government calculates the use of transport in larger and wider contexts. It takes into account interest in more than user fees. You see, the community is making a lot of money on projects in a far greater way than paid for use. Changes in job areas, savings due to climate commitment, access to services, and other things are things that can be more profitable to society and less expensive to the public. The project and thus how the project pays for the public is much more varied than with private agents on PPP. In this way, if the project is public and we enjoy money sooner, we will actually pay back the cost of construction, provided, of course, that it is profitable to start with. However, there is room for the PPP because the government cannot prepare endless projects at the same time. To some extent, the public's capacity is limited, allowing for the priority of existing tasks. It also means that profitable projects that are down on list cost society. That's a set period of time, i.e. the cost of not getting ahead of yourself. The cost of the project comes to an end, and there's just room for a PPP project. If private funds can come to a project that is down in priority and save the community that late costs, everyone will be able to make better money, even if the PPP is more expensive, than if the project was done by the government. In order for this to work, however, priorities need to be in place in the form needed for this to happen. It's not today. Instead, a practical analysis of tasks, such as the Ministry expressed it, reminds me, what tasks are appropriate for a PPP project based on a set of criteria. This may result in national interest projects, even the most profitable projects, being placed under PPP ideas, even if in normal priorities the job would be placed at the top of the public or at least high. As a result, the most profitable projects are put into the hands of a private member who makes the project more expensive, as discussed in the reviews, that was said to be between 20◯30% more expensive. The ardor will later be returned to society because payment for use is reduced from the money the project brings to society. This is the difference between what the costs for the project are for the government and what costs are very high for the private project. He is, in fact, more than the 2003-30% mentioned by clients, that he will then consider the positive effects of society in return. Consider, for example, 10 billion projects that we pay in 20 years through public funding, taxes, and expenses. The same project takes place between 12 and 13 billion on a personal level. If this project is paid up over 20 years, it is in addition to the taxes and fees we pay and is, in fact, a tax increase for users in that period. If we expect e.g. Two percent of the profits made, and it is 1 billion in the area without the environmental transport done, have raised nearly half a billion in profits during the period of payment. This profit is not enough to cover the extra cost of budgeting and, in effect, reduces the official cost of the project's implementation in the large context, but it is not enough to cover the additional cost of budgeting and otherwise of private workers, which is 23/43 billion. So taxpayers end up paying about 2 billion more for the project, and it takes a long time to work it out of the interest of the project, this 2%. Hence, it is important that our priorities are clearly defined and that our business order of interest is clear. I'm quite aware that this is an example, but it's a simple way to illustrate the context. True, some would say that if private people put their money on bail, it would be better because they were more careful with their money and had more incentive to adjust. In turn, I say it's a man's job to make his move. No matter whether they are in a private business or if they are in public business, all can do so. We are not supposed to have people working for the government who don't give tax money because of the respect they deserve. I'll handle this with the PPP, but this is in my opinion the necessary basis for it to be before a decision can be made whether or not to be carried out in a PPP project. We are generally seen with these projects as social projects all over the country, the taxes we pay for transport are moving across the country as much as we can have it and as fair as we can out of the national standards we set. below, if the public does not have any other lucrative projects until after a long time, potential PPP projects will arise because both parties save and make money. I wanted to cover just a few of the roads. One of the basic problems we face when the council is working on and implementing a transport plan is that it lacks the foundation. The aims of a perfect transport system to be seen today are missing and are missing. Only in this regard can we make good decisions as to how we approach a perfect transport system and what projects are best started. Why don't we really have a shiny picture of Iceland and the transportation system we would like to have? If we had that, it would be rather obvious to see the best approach to our present situation and to approach the transportation system as we would like to have it. With the ultimate transport system in mind, I asked the secretary of transportation and rural management of the transport system. A road file contains the desired species, and it is likely to be as close to a perfect transport system as we can get. If all roads were as desirable as possible, we would be closer to our goal, even if they were missing things, such as them. The riverway and the double Hahfjörður, or tunnel, east and west, and any missing mountain, the roads that already exist are not of the desired type of road to the road. I asked: "What is the real type of road to a road file, and what type of road is desirable for each road, when only according to public traffic forecasts? " I asked because the road operation presented a budgetary committee, and I noticed this, and it was indirectly answered at that meeting that perhaps about 50% or half of all roads in a road record were not based on the desired kind of road type to appear in a road file. About half. I just wanted to know exactly what the mass was, because we can only make an informed decision on transport improvements if we know what the situation is in relation to the desired position. The answer was interesting, with president's permission: Some 4,500 canals are registered in the road record. In order for certain roads to meet the requirements for these types of roads, they must meet a wide range of factors, such as the width and bridges of the road, the type of road interfaces, the distance between roads, and the type of fracture. It takes a lot of work to keep in mind the difference between how each of the specific roads should be defined by a road file and how it really is in a road system. This work has not been attacked and is not yet available. Yet, the road structure knows what the desired species are and has also built most roads. A person who has built the road must know what kind of road it was. I would, anyway. The road has at least documenting the roads. It is remarkable that when a road is registered, it is not checked by its type, when the road enters the road if the road does not build it itself. Either when the road was built or when it was recorded, it should have been an obvious part of the project to say: It is really such a type of road, but it would be desirable, based on traffic forecasts, that it was another type of road. This is the information that is absolutely necessary for us, who are making decisions about updates in the road system, to be fundamental. After all, those using the transportation system know most locally what to do. When it comes to the maintenance and development of the transport system, it is best to ask people who live near and use their local transportation. In this respect, I believe the design and planning of transport plans are in a bit of the wrong place. For the most part, it should be done within part of a national and rural community. It should be the government's job to finance these methods of transportation rather than to determine which path to take. You might find this in some form of discussion, etc, but you could make this more formal. This would mean that the General financed the common road system and, in fact, large projects, large transport improvements, public transport improvements for everyone, but overall improvements, maintenance, and updates would be in close society. The larger expansion of the transport system should be in the hands of the government. There are major projects, such as the Sunway, the Fjords, the Selphoss and the like, where people like Vega organise them and prioritize them, with, of course, a standard attendance of the Council. Thus, all parts of the country will be allowed to say about their projects and have a sense of oversight, both in financing and in priorities. If we examine the history, all too often transportation has been pulled back and forth, in and out of priorities. I think Fundah tunnels are one of the best examples of that. They have been constantly promised, and they have not lived up to that promise. It's as simple as that. Yeah, it's a hell of a thing to do. If it were in this arrangement, that the country itself had priorities, he could raise up for it based on the Senate budget, who knows. It could be some kind of common funding there, half the way it's done because it's done by a specific size. A planned land tunnel plan is in the direction of this. How positive it is to see that the greater part is involved in such an organization! I'll agree with that. Finally, there is a shortage of financial independence from rural society. If we compare ourselves with, for example, Norway, the European Union of Iceland, has told us that funding the unit level of government and the service, etc. ... they'reincriminalfor Iceland. In the United States, the state has up to 70% of public spending, with some 30% of the population involved. In contrast, in Norway, the state has about 30% and 70% of its communities. Admittedly, there is a difference in practices, but we all know that the community's projects are inexplicable. And the underprivileged community service means they are not financial independence. They are up to receive all kinds of grantings and alms, in effect, from the State that is not supposed to happen. We must develop financial independence from the roots, from rural communities, from the community up to the council. If our rural communities were more independent in terms of financing, we wouldn't have the same problem together, I'm 100% sure of that. It would be completely different from a landscape, completely different from the service level, it would be much more productive. I think that's obvious. This is also true in various parts of the country. Economicly independent rural areas can make independent decisions on transport benefits. It's really that simple. That's the final point for me in my review; the lack of PPP installations, the lack of priorities, the lack of knowing how our road system is built up, i.e. not knowing what types of roads are in our transport system, how we should be building up the transport programmes from our neighbors and up tops and how we should focus more on the financial independence of our rural society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u39	President. I am still learning that there are four of us who are so interested in speaking at any time. A senator says that we need to share with ourselves the time at hand. But I'd like to be straight. Change of plans. The senator noted that in section 2,3, of the number 2,3.10, the words should be discarded, and with the collection of roads, which now reads on the funding of projects, by permission of the president: A wide variety of methods of financing will continue to be considered, including in cooperation with private agents and with collections of roads. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether this means, in any case, that he is in return to collect taxpayers. This is merely a consideration of a wide variety of ways to finance large projects, including the collection of roads. Does that mean "whisper"? A senator disagrees with that in all cases?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u40	A respectable president. Perhaps I did not discuss this well enough in my talk. I said that the exception is a PPP project, and I went over the arrangement I think must be for PPP projects to be developed. In all other respects, I count dues and collect fares as unnecessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u41	Madam President. Maybe it's me. I listened to a talk. A senator and I couldn't believe it. A senator would not bring up the city line in this context, where party members were aggressor. A senator, on the other side of the street, in the town hall, has worked hard to meet it as a road contract in the capital area, presupposes quick and traffic costs that should reach the above targets at the agreement; they are expected to survive a stream of stocks, funding and secondary costs, such as capital costs, traffic costs and the company. I just wouldn't have believed that the news would happen. A senator, who was so totally opposed to his fellow party members at the city hall, found that to be a lot of news. If I had been in my old job as a journalist, I would now be writing tomorrow's cover story.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u42	A respectable president. Hv. Clearly, a senator has not kept a close eye on himself because it also says in the capital contract: ▪ or with any other financing. It is our opinion that we can finance this in a way other than traffic and speed charges. And if any. A senator asks my party members of the mayor, so I've heard exactly the same thing from them. I don't know what kind of cover story this might make of it. However, the adjustment is under the heading on safe transport. I think I've done a pretty good job over why I don't think it's what I was discussing about PPP, that it's not practical for any user, only for the manager who receives money from such projects unless it's late in priority that social costs would accumulate in that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I took it from him to talk a little bit about a PPP project which may be an opportunity to discuss also under particular teams when it comes to that bill. But the senator also discussed the importance of priorities. I have heard him discuss it before, and of course I can say that it is very important that we know how to prioritize them. But sometimes I've had a bad feeling. A senator may think so - let us say that it is only easier to talk about it than really to do it and then over the whole country. It is a little more complicated than giving it a talk. If I understood the senator correctly, I felt that he generally disagreed with the approach to road construction and, therefore, the hurrying of important workers in cooperation with private workers. I just wanted to ask you what. A senator: Did I understand him correctly?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u44	A respectable president. I'm not against any hurry at all. I listed the conditions that I believe are required to meet before we can actually start thinking about which projects can be rushed and which projects are inexpensive and most practical, in public funding because, as indicated by sources of information, it would be done by private agents of 201⁄230% more expensive. It simply feels that it is against the profit society could gain from the project. When setting priorities, you always start with a rough category, not as accurate your priorities, as your interest in money, or a cost - analysis. You start by evaluating each project in the big movie. From the big picture and the results of the crude priorities, the cost analysis, and the benefit analysis, you can make a further decision to determine which projects to concentrate and use in a more precise cost analysis.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u45	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'd like to say that about the private enterprise, or the use of private people also in such projects, that I'm not going to say that there's a solution to everything. Sometimes it works very well, but sometimes it doesn't. You're right about what you're doing. A senator's general concern is that public members may be able to finance things in a more practical way. But there are other factors to look to. The private person who may also be involved in the construction of the character may be better equipped to design and perform it in a more practical way than public members. I'm gonna ask you another question about the charges I've been hearing. A senator disagrees with or disagrees with him. Now I think we're gonna do what we're gonna do. A senator may agree on the importance of energy exchanges and that this is where we drive on electricity, hydrogen, or some ecological energy sources rather than oil. In view of the future and the future taxation of vehicles, how would it be appropriate to finance long - term roads? Is this not just a charge or some kind of application required?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u46	A respectable president. I ask, "Why does a private person really have to be more qualified than public? " After all, these people and people in both the public and the private sector can take them into a slightly larger context. [[Up front.]] But the second with a future funding, I think the only logical solution to everything is a mile tax, i.e. shows, just as we have a measure of heating and electricity. It's really the fairest way to do this sort of measurement because all tax and operating methods contain a certain personality, which I consider completely unacceptable in the larger picture. It is also more inaccurate to use the methods where people can walk by and that they may feel better about passing by the roadside and leaving the hook, even if it costs more. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u47	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk and the cooperation of an environment and transportation committee where I often feel that he has an interesting perspective on things, but sometimes I don't realize his vision of transportation. I even have some. It is very difficult to understand the benefits of knowing national roads. What is a species of roads in the mind of the senator, and what are we better aware of the desired type? Then I'd like to take an example. Now Öxi is on schedule as a PPP project. There was a mobbed appendage in 1959, since then it has gradually been adjusted in a different way, one turn here, and another turn there, and one stretch there. We all know that there's a new road to be built if he's to carry more traffic than it's going to be today. Are we improved by our knowledge of roads?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u48	A respectable president. Thank you for a great question. Yes, it is so remarkable that we know the desirable types of roads. We know the local route, but it is very strange that we do not really know the species. We can ask what type of road is like because when there is a real type of road and the desired type of road, we immediately see the difference. Only with such a database can we see where the problems are because, of course, we link them to traffic numbers and traffic consumption and the high number of tourists, as has happened recently. We will see immediately that a very bad road will suddenly be exposed to a much greater stress, which puts it above the top of its priorities in order to put the desired type on it. We'll see it immediately, and we'll be able to take action there. If we don't know the desired type and real type of road, we don't get the information and we can't respond in the way the situation demands.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'm going to allow me to claim that the employees of the Roadmaker all over the country, and even in a central office in Reykjavík, now have a feeling about the road, each one in his own district. I think I know quite a bit of the country's road system in such a way that I could tell you where there's a lot of traffic and where it's not. I think that the problem is that a large part of the road system where the foundation was laid by a natural pioneers on a surface does not match any of the types defined. Just talking and getting closer to the community. I felt that the senator was a littlelittle about all the agreements that have been made with the transport plans and the priorities involved in the national issues. I don't know any better than any local organisation will make priorities, introduce it to transportation, and then to the council, and so on. Then, in each area in cooperation with rural society, the road pools, carpet pots, maintenance pots, and so forth.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u50	A respectable president. I apologize for that. I understand exactly how it was possible for me to talk that I was beinglittled, but I didn't mean it that way. I was primarily talking about bringing the authority of decision to the nearby community, not just the discussion. One of the things I asked all the national parts in when they visited the Committee was: How do your plans harmonize with the current transport process? The conclusion was that they did quite well, but there were certain offenders that all of us know about the rest of our territory and this district road and savage roads and so on. Then let's finish this desirable and real type of road. Hv. A senator introduced a sense of the road system. I find it remarkable to think that it means improving transport policy through emotion. That's what it means. It's not a position that I like to think about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. I'd like to be the subject of the financing of transport programmes. These cooperation projects in the program, called PPP projects, are slightly killed and moved. A senator hears a word of fire on that subject. I'd like to stick around for a second. Hv. In his speech, a senator points out that this is a more costly way for the sake of a government fund, for all of us, than are other advantages offered. More people are pointing at it. This was done by the U.S. automobile owners, and even the Ministry of finance, in their comments. I'm asking why. A senator would realize, to some extent, why the government puts himself in such positions. I realize that if we don't go that way, nothing will happen, it's gonna be late for decades. Is that what you want? Why do governments place themselves in such positions? Is this just a missionary?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u52	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u53	A respectable president. Yes, it's simply proselytism, it's just ideologies. They are simply trying to sell and replace certain tax concepts for a single tax use as a fixed distribution or equation. One of the reasons we end up here is that cost- and absolution analysis is not made in a reasonable and accessible way. If I'm going to find out what the cost and profit analysis is, especially national profit analysis, for the unique development of a transport program, it's difficult for me to approach it if I can approach it above my head. It tells me that when we decide to have a specific project for cost- and profit analysis, i.e. When she is missing, it is very difficult to say that we can only finance this with a loan, because the money we make from the project pays very easily, it is a lucrative investment, or we can say that we can finance it by means of payment. At that time, the cost of building the project is relatively secure, but it is much higher.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'd like to mention one thing. Hv. A senator is an amateur and a telephone agent on a financial committee. I'd like to hear a little bit from him, if he can confide in us, whether the basis for a transport plan was discussed in a financial committee. In the past few weeks and months, we have had to take on increased borrowing due to Covid, and they are predictable in the next few years, probably. Is it not the basis for this transport program that is unusually ill, or are they simply smiling? What's the food? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u55	A respectable president. That's a great question. The short and simple answer to it is almost everything else here in terms of the budget, etc.: I have no idea. The reason is that there is no cost-benefit analysis. We do not know whether the projects are profitable or not. I'm going to assume that they are most profitable in transport, how they are worthwhile. It is relatively easy to assume that, after all, we come out in plus a national sense. And on this basis, a transport plan cannot be broken as such because all projects are expected to come together into plus. But then it's just a matter of financing and how expensive it is. We have a very good deal on loans like this while funding on a hair tax price, 20 to 30% goes down to the expense, which delays the money as I used to do earlier. It sums up the problem, we don't know what any of the profits are. Then it is impossible to tell or to determine whether borrowing is actually better, very likely better, or whether a process of transportation is broken.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u56	Mr. President. Much is being taken in this discussion of a proposal for the resolution of a five - year transport programme. Since time is limited, much of what you wanted to name cannot be covered. I'm going to start by discussing waterfronts and ports, and I'm going to take my heart out to the assessment of a greater part of the Committee on the need for improved water defenses throughout the country. We know that in most parts of the sea, the increase in the recent years has been high and the need to protect coastal areas and settlements, as the commission puts it. I'd also like to introduce one thing that matters and that has not been discussed here, I haven't found it in the committee or in the plan, but it's the importance of also defending ancientism. I miss a bit of the fact that not to be mentioned here because of the widespread deforestation of the seawaters in many places, and this has resulted in memorization of the population and struggles of advanced generations, in some cases, as well as the construction of monuments that have been built several decades ago. The high value of these materials cannot be expected. We know that many smaller places are damaged by the pollution of the sea and are predicted to be in danger. Our story and culture, when it comes to fishing, fishing, planting, and so forth, are very important, so we are to take on air. Besides, it's very important that we protect these memories. Another priority is to register archaeology on the shores of the country, making sure that the knowledge of our history and culture is preserved, although in some cases the memory may go courtyards. With this important registration work, there is a basis for setting priorities for projects when it comes to the sea - defense, and it attracts to our cultural worth. For fun, there is a great ancient monument, a seamine. The locals were planning to put sand bags in order to protect them from the roots of the earth. In spite of this, much less has been done in the water. But a nation like us Icelanders who boast about rich history and culture in this area cannot be known for the fact that the local people have to run with some sandbags to try to save their cultural worth. This is a class that needs effort, and I think it needs to be done here. In the cloud storm of December 2019, seafronts, including seafronts, were significantly damaged. It is a joy to find that in this special investment campaign, there were nearly 150 million people in the city of Rhines and in the province of Rhines. K. helped to repair damages because of it. We remember that on Smokeynes is the fastest rising sea level in the country. In this regard, I'd like to arrive only at the harbor of the villagers. It is of utmost importance in terms of work construction for the entire Southland. Refining on the docks is not completed, and it is urgent that funds be assured to complete them so that larger ships can operate. The schedule will allow for approximately 782 million. K. In 2021, which includes prolongation of a harbor, depth and stone shield, and then a steel deck. Then, in 2022, 656 million are expected. K. the job, and it's very important to do so. This is of importance to this area, but the rural society of Elfus has suffered severe business traumas in recent years and is connected to all the marine roads in one way or another, where considerable fishing industry has been sold away and commercially exported. We know the consequences of selling food from communities. These include loss of employment, decrease in people's numbers, loss of property, and services, to name just a few. Elfus'community has done a great job of dealing with these tragedies, setting a fine example. A good example of this is faith in the management of the docks and the decision to attack large improvements in the docks in order to increase income from new projects. What a success that has been! What a joy it is, and for some time now, there have been regular international cruises in the world and in the village! There has been a dramatic increase in the number of transport crews on the map as imports and exports, with the shortest transport times in transport to and from the country. Is there any reason to commend the community for this assignment, and I want to take this opportunity and do it here, for the vision it has shown in this. The power of the Kingdom must enter in order for the harbor to grow and thrive. I'm glad to see that it's in the plan, and hopefully it'll work. I'd like to name the land of the country. How vital it is for the Western community to try to make sure that it becomes a full - costume sea! We need to try to find ways to do so. This has proved to be true now; the weather over the past few months has been favorable, showing how important it is to be able to use this dock every day of the year. I'd also like to mention the depth of the ocean in L.A. Hornfjörður and then the Hornground. All of these are important ports that need to be safe for sailors. In such communities as the Cape, which is largely based on fishing and fishing, these items are important. I'd just like to step aside to the Smokey Lane. After the crackling of the Rhine Way from Fitum to London in Sakoshun, there has been no fatal accident in that section, but unfortunately, the section that remains burned cannot be said of the same. It has been shown that the double has greatly improved security, yet the task is not being completed. It is sad that it has not been done before, so to speak. The Smokey Way cannot be talked about without referring to the tragedy that has resulted from accidents in that period. Accidents that have occurred in recent years are completely unacceptable. Apart from the great human tragedy of road accidents, they are enormously costly for society, as we have seen in talks. There is great national benefit in reducing accidents and increasing traffic security, and as a community, we have to be handsome in the construction and maintenance of roads. This importance has been neglected for far too long and must also be prioritized by traffic security and traffic volumes. I think it is pretty clear that in view of the economic situation and the state's status, priorities in this category are very important. We also need to make sure that transportation is safe and effective in order to build up our country. I'm glad that according to the plan of the two - sided Rhines Way, starting in 223 C.E. Two years, 2022. Every day we, who drive the Smokejanes Way, have seen that we have made the double track within Hafnarfjörður, i.e. From the Pussian to Kaalsel's road, they will be well and will be completed in the fall. There will be a lot of transportation, especially when it comes to security. It is a pleasure to see how successful these projects have been. Then people will look forward to the time when they will begin to double the remaining single chapter, i.e. The Lonakoti Investments to the Kryslav Vicomte. In this regard, I would like to encourage the government to think about Southnes when it comes to necessary projects in these areas. There's unemployment 20%, the largest in the country. I welcome a special investment campaign that has to do with increasing Sandings and stone shielding in Keflavík and Njardík. All of this matters. That's what I wanted to say specifically about the Smokey Way and the area south with the sea. Before I reached the Southland, I wanted to talk about flying. It is important to make good flights, and I especially want to mention Hornafjörður and Western Islands, that official support come to these places. When it comes to flight, such public transportation ensures a safe health service and a special service that is not available at home, or a long way to go. I want to emphasize here that we also need to consider the small airports that are present and that we can make great use of them. I'd like to mention the airport at the Viking Valley, on the Furholm, and on the town gang. The airport at Furholom proved its value when traffic accidents occurred in the deserts not long ago, and we see that these airports play an important safety role. These airports need to be cut off, like the Vikings and the Furholm. I think the cost is about 200 million. K. At either airport. However, this is important in this area and is also positive for tourism. If you could use more of these airports, it would relieve your traffic weight on the roads, and larger machines could be used. I'd also like to mention the airport at the Cape of the Hornfjord. There's been some disagreement between Istavia and the locals regarding the direction of the airport. When it comes to malaria, it has been emphasized that the 30 - m - wide airport goes to 45 m by floundering all the way to the lights. I think it's a very important project, and it needs to be settled. You have to listen to the locals in this regard, and this airport can be used for bigger machines, such as motors. I think there's good reason to consider that we'd open this airport for international shit and then for private jets. They would serve the area well and especially the tourism service. There is now much building ahead of Jackion and the east of Lon. It has ideas of great construction, construction of a five-star hotel, etc. There would be a great supply for the area if this airport were to be cremated and maligned and secured around it. I wanted to mention this here because it's important for the area and structure where it matters when it comes to tourism. I wanted next time to the highway system in general. The Icelandic highway system received a drop-up in the EuroRAP star giving, an analysis of the roads that was presented here in 2018. Most of the roads receive one of five stars, and we see that this is not acceptable at all. At this meeting it was found that 2.8% of the roads reached four stars, 22.4% reach three stars of five, 34% get two stars, and 40.9% of the road system gets the lowest ratings or one star. These are acceptable measurements made over a few years, which tell us that the situation is completely unacceptable in this regard, and we certainly need to deal with these materials. In addition, industrial organizations reported on the state and outlook of Iceland as they presented them. There the state of the road system was rated bad and only gets a score of two on a scale of one to five. In the years to come, we need to invest heavily in the road system and set priorities because of the limitations of our financial resources. Mr. President. I see time is moving fast. I just want to end up with an focus project in the Southland. It is a priority to ensure the safety of road users. There are many narrow roads and roads that are poor, and some roads are not available. This is especially true on highway 1, from the Marka River east of Skaftfells County, as is the case in many countryside. In addition, road surfaces need to be improved and strengthened. Likewise, bicyclists and pedestrians must not be forgotten, so the task is urgent. It has a lot to do with security and meaning and weight. It belongs, for example. Especially by the way in the Eldun, and in the plains of the wilderness, under the hill country of Eyjah, and in the valley of Myr. Then there are those we know who have a wide variety of bridges. It seems to be an endless task to overcome and double those bridges. The highway 1 is, I think, about 20 bridges, all too high. In addition, it is important to place an eviction, an exit, and an eagle into dangerous places. I'd like to refer to the good report of the Sunnian Consequences in the Parliament's resolution. There are many things that really matter. So, as we know, so are the footways and the trajectories, which have not been bound together asunder. According to the Conspirament of the Sunnian Company, malaria roads in the community's territory are a total of 452 miles [452 km], of which 414 miles [14 km] are bound. We see that it is natural for a long time to make a special effort to repair a dirt road. In addition, it is noteworthy that the rural population in the South was surveyed on traffic security, where traffic security is specifically set. It reveals that it has a powerful influence on conditions for living. The conditions for living, job opportunities, and the safety and quality of life that people enjoy are greatly affected by transportation. You need not forget this in this discussion. Mr. President. I only want to say at the end, because an excellent answer was here for a talk. paritaprevir Björn Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, asked for the status of the state's funds and whether the setting was smiling in a transport program for the state's financial status. It is clear that in the autumn months, funds will be difficult and will no doubt have to take practical action because of a high regard for the state's funds. Therefore, transport plans and priorities are essential. [[The president calls.]] Plans can be used effectively and effectively, but they need funding to make progress and have to set priorities for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u57	Mr. President. We'll discuss a proposal for a resolution of a 15-year transport programme for 2020-02034 as well as a proposal for the resolution of a five-year transport programme by 2020-2024. A 15 - year transport program has set goals and goals for all articles of transportation for the next few years. The main objective of the programme is to ensure legal, economic, safe and environmental sustainable transport and to promote positive development of rural development. The five-year plan is set out as a strategy for each year's period and for each centre and company of transport within the framework of budget. I wanted to go over a few points. Travel has positive results, and we discussed these matters in the past year, and there are many benefits. Cases have developed in a positive way recently, and there is a willingness at the council and the government to contribute more funding to transport and eutrophication. I'm going to start with a funeral plan and agree with the views that have been presented in the transport discussion, we need to focus on it, and we need to set priorities. It is shown in the majority opinion that was discussed here last night. I'd like to add to that discussion, since there has been not much discussion in general about how we're going to solve the Grinch case in the big context of the next few years and decades, in which we're going to take a walk. This is a great mountain circle, and much has to be solved by tunnels and has not been discussed in itself very much. If we begin north on Sigludur and at the conference of Sports Strait Strait Pass, from sailing to the River, there have been two options there in the discussion about a five-mile tunnel. Then, at 30 years of age and a child of the day, it is the Ólafjörður tunnel. It reminds me that they were taken into use in 1989. They're all spread out, and often there's a lot of trouble. We clearly need to look to the future about how we're going to solve the case of Olafurd March, whether to try to double them, because they don't care about the traffic that goes through the tunnel, or whether we should change, on the long-term deck, and go straight from Ólausfundurd to Dalvík. Since then, the Grinch has been discussed. Companys in Northern Ireland, Akureyri, and the Menacrats made an agreement to have the Grinch tunnel examined. They would be extremely long and intense, 15 miles [21 km] from the Bark River Valley to Hjalta Valley in Hóla. Then there are other ideas about going north of the Valley of Hörg, to the Valley of Paradise, and then to the Valley of Kolbar. Then there are other options I'm going to list. There's a tunnel about four miles under the tallest part of Oxnadal honors. The big idea is to go under the entire Oxnad Valley bridge, almost to the North Valley of the Oxnadal Valley. That's 10 miles. In this discussion I have written and talked about the way the Valley of Hörg, such as were ideas of in the old days, as the way through the Valley of Axen and the Oxnadal Valley was determined, the benefits of entering the Valley of Hörg, and the valley of the North Year by tunnel. The reason I'm discussing it here is that I think and I've talked about the fact that the Eyjafjörður communities should go to work further, and look at the overall context of the parts and where they want to go to geograph in the coming years and decades. There's quite a complication in the matter, which way to go and what best comes out when considering social, economic, and environmental factors. I think it's a discussion that needs to deepen over the years and is extremely important for longer-term development of the area. There's a lot of talk about flying in the plan, including... comes the flight policy, which was made last year. There are many factors in this discussion, and in the last two, three years, there has been a significant increase in the subject of flying in the Parliament, in the transport committee and in the conference hall, and it continues, and it is extremely good, for the flight is an enormous and important explanation for us Icelanders and me. It also refers to the Scottish route as public transportation. It is expected in budgets beginning September 1, so it is about to enter. The airports, international airports, and the network of national airports are introduced and set out changes that are taking place with a new ideologies on how to manage their financing. Of course, this is difficult right now because of what has happened with Covid and the tremendous difficulties that have occurred on the flight, but it needs to have a vision of how things happen. I like what there is. As for the international flight and taxation, I would like to mention, as indicated by the opinion of a greater part of the transport committee, that 2010 was submitted the cost of domestic flights and more taxes, and the cost was added. I think it would be necessary, at the level of the council, to consider what can be done to raise the curses set on the international flight some ten years ago, but that would be a very difficult time for this loss. I have a feeling this could be about 400 to500 million. K. each year, the expenses set up for ten years have been an additional cost for the international flight since that time. There are many good things to do, and good decisions are made that will be added to the transport programme, investments that are part of the government's Covid actions. In the investment plan set out in terms of budget one, funding was used for implementation, including budgeting. In the Northeast standard, there were 200 million in airports and 315 million in airports and funds for the Lagil State Airport to begin construction of roadways and airports, and 35 million in the transport program presented here. An end to this investment package, this project, through an investment campaign of 2021/2023 that will be presented in connection with a financial programme and then in budgeted the next year in the fall when we enter the budget. If I remembered correctly, when I was stretching down these points, it is expected that about 25 billion will be carried out in an investment campaign of 2021, 20 billion 2020, and 15 billion 2022. This year's progress has been linked to the progress of the projects that are beginning. It reminds me that of the 15 billion people who were in the investment campaign on budget one, about 6 billion were taken into transport and transport. It's really really important that I've been talking here for years - I may not have been here for years, but it's been a few years since I started this assembly - I've talked about the importance of the reserves and the security that a powerful backup policy system is, whether it's for Keflavík or between the international airports and the airports. It is of utmost importance that you do so, whether it refers to the length of runways, the size of aeroplanes, the means of flight equipment, and such factors, the equipment, and the keeping of the receivers with good brakes over winter conditions, the syrups, and the sand suspensions and all that are involved. I am rather satisfied with the way that this discussion has gone on and on, and more and more attention was given to these issues and their seriousness. It's a big, big security case, and I've said the backup flight system is a real national security issue. I am also very pleased with what is presented in the majority of transport committees on EGNOOS and satellite guidance. I've been speaking about the importance of this matter almost from the first day here at the council and that it will be accomplished. Today, more than the east part of the country, the Grinch is down to the Myrdal Seven, its access to the EGNOOS satellite history than the western part of the country does not have it. So it is very important to set up correct points that would likely have to be in Greenland. I believe that, in fact, it should be cooperated with Greenland and Dani how we could improve this. There are also tremendous opportunities for Greenlandns to build this system, and it is important for them to build it. We are in a fixed hole here on the west side of the country and across Greenland between the American system called WASS and EGNOOS, which is on the European side. A good understanding of how to deal with this needs to be reached. So it is very good to see that there is increasing interest in these matters here. I welcome the changes made to most of the part and to the good text that appears on EGNOOS and the satellite account. I'd also like to mention Reykjavíkur Airport as part of the APU and its key role in international flight. In view of the greater part of the transport committee, about 90% of all international passengers are involved in some way on their journey in the city of Reykjavík, so that they are an enormous part of it, and it is extremely important to have a good handling of all those matters and that the course will be allowed to stand in peace until at least As good or as better an option here on the southwest corner is found to play on the role the airport has in so many things, whether it is for passengers or public transportation, most of us have come with an understanding that the international flight is, but also because of the massive need for a medical flight. As we live in the country, the importance of driving a powerful orderly plane has a sound access to our most powerful hospital, the Landst Hospital on Ring Road. Today, some 850 patients each year are transported by medical flight to about 800 flights. EGOS is also involved. We want it because low limits and better flights into airports and wide areas of the country are part of building up the EGOS system. This, too, would have a profound effect on the so - called low - speed routes of rescue and search the country. It would be possible to make flights that penetrate into valleys and fly far and wide across the country, creating such paradoxs in low - speed routes, which are known as a phenomenon in the Alps and beyond. This is vital in seeking and saving. Then I think I've run through the points I wrote on paper before my talk. Finally, I'd like to call attention to what was presented in the best member body of my office last night regarding Istavia's agreement with the Dutch Space Administration on weather control and wind conditions for projects around Reykjavík's airport and for those scheduled. Istavia has taken the initiative to ask for a study from the Dutch Space Agency to evaluate it and its results are expected within a few weeks. It is very important and good for Istavia to request that this study be carried out to evaluate the future winding of the flight due to the proposed Great Scleric Fun. Complaints have come from pilots saying that in certain winds there have been changes, and there are concerns related to this. Then it should be noted that since the October 2013 accord, the trees of the ark have not been lowered. They are starting to affect minimum levels in a particular flight to the tip of the platform when they land in Reykjavík at an airport to northwest. Because of this, a certain approach has been shut down. It's quite surprising, though, that this is still being heard because for a few years it has been said repeatedly that it is just about to leave. Now, though, we are in a situation where a certain flight has already taken place, where the trees are growing up in an obstacle stage for their approach. I think it would probably be now for a transport committee to review this case from 2013, when the contract was made. On the one hand, it was to ensure that the trees did not rise in an obstacleal plane, and the same was an aerodynamic light. They are not yet in position for one of the trainors at the Snarve Fjord. It is not yet finished what was shown in that work and that contract at the time, and it has to do with it. It should not be a big deal to finish lowering the trees I'm told the airport workers in Reykjavík planted around 1950. This case needs to be recorded here at the council, and the Commission and the Department of Transport should complete it. I'm going to finish this by thanking the Transport Committee and the rest of the work done in these two transport programmes, for the 202020-2024 and 2020-52034.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u58	A respectable president. I have a few questions about one thing in the senator's speech, and that's this brand - name Scottish route. To be honest, I do not remember that we have received clear information or presentation on it, except to a very small extent, exactly how the arrangement is in Scotland. The information I remember getting into our hands about the Scottish route, as it was introduced to us, was that it was a flight route to very remote places. That is a very different arrangement than what is expected in a transport program. After all, if you're going to compare these two methods, it may be the Icelandic way rather than the Scottish way. Perhaps there is something in common, but we have not received accurate descriptions of how this has been or how it has gone on in particular. Why should we take up a Scottish path if it was installed in Scotland and walked e.g. No? At any rate, it would be a question for us whether it would be rather successful with us after all. Let's just take public transportation as our next flight.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm going to have to remember a lot when this comes up so unexpectedly. I remember that she was adopted and adopted in Scotland in 2005. It was primarily designed to connect the rural population with the next city with a service, whether it was health, education, culture, or all that is naturally similar to what we are talking about here. It had a positive effect on domestic flights in Scotland. It was increasing by 1,912 percent, and the kit on the Scots account accounted for about 50% of the plane ticket. It's like I remember the key words about this. [[Set the stage for the inhabitants of the United States of America.]] Yeah, 230,000. There may be a problem. A senator has a different number, but by my memory, 250,000,300,000 shoots into the system. In this way they were able to use the subsidies, but they had to have a home or residence in affected areas. This is to balance the situation because, like ours, Scotland has been building more Kingdom Halls, or cities. The government has actually established a hospital, culture, university, or whatever it is. Iceland and I may take this in a little smaller step. As it has been set up and presented, we begin with a trip each year during this fall, and then we will continue to increase in the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u60	A respectable president. I admit, I find flying as a public transportation very interesting. I think it'll be a lot easier as technology comes forward and even more so. in the relatively near future. There is definitely a possibility that we should look inside our system. In this way, I also feel that I need a better flight plan on which airports are involved in this public transport system. What I would have wanted to criticize about the Scottish route here in Iceland was that I remember that in Scotland it was actually mostly about flying into certain islands near Scotland. There, however, there is much greater transport limitation when the squares make it easier for access to roads. So there's a slight difference between us that may not be a problem after all. For the 1.5 billion subsidies used, I would like to see less of the compression and more of the development of services in the mobilized settlements, at least in more terms where distances from perimeters were shorter. One and a half billion each year on such projects goes a long way to finance a better distribution plan. It is true that there is some cost of operating at the national level, etc. But it's also a benefit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u61	Mr. President. I truly agree with the point of view. Senator. I would obviously like to see a much stronger service center around the country, but it is a reality that has been developing in a certain way and that has been remarkablely fast in the last 201⁄230 years, in our modern times, and we can argue about what is realistic and what is not. Some years ago, I personally examined this subject and wrote about how people travel between Akureyri and Reykjavík. In the middle of the winter, there are more people flying between us than they are driving. It all went up to 63 in the shortest winter of the month. Older people just don't drive, some stop driving in the winter, don't like the weather and all. Then the ratio changes and maybe it's 25% over the summer. Then the foreign tourists have met and kept their frequency quite normal. If we think about this, we have such weather conditions in Iceland, especially in the wintertime, that there are some islands here too because this is just a huge matter. Running out of East under good conditions is 7◯8 hours, which can be half 24 hours or more if there's something wrong with the weather. It may often be forgotten to discuss this climate. So it will be fascinating to see how the public will take advantage of the Scottish route. My suspicion is that it will be more than five to six of the darkest and most difficult weather conditions of the year. It's just really hard in many places. We who live in the country know that today's climate can be quite difficult.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u62	V.E.G. President. Here we will discuss a five - year transport schedule and a plan for the 2020 520/2034. That's, I'd say, with bigger cases we're having here on the land, at least for the national infrastructure. The need for investment in the country's road system is estimated to be some 400 billion, and it tells us that the road system in the country is far behind today's demand for transportation. Many years of hard work have been a concern for us as to the need for investment. Of course, it is clear to me that the circumstances we live in here on our beautiful rural land are such that the cost of getting them fixed is great in comparison with the population of the country. In recent years, the number of tourists has increased dramatically. That means more stress on the highways of the country. In 2018, 2.3 million tourists arrived in the country. Heavy transport has increased extensively, such as fish. Driveed back and forth because of changing circumstances in fish farming and fresh fish exporting. Some years ago, government coasts were off, adding land to heavy transport, and thus they could continue to be counted. The best investment in infrastructure is good transport, number one, at least to me, at that job. Many young people who are forming family members or individuals who are looking for work and who want to move to the country look to the location where work offers. The structure of the land area will develop better if transportation is made higher below its head. That's my conviction, and I'm sure it's a lot of others. However, the transport program itself. First, I want to celebrate because it seems that there's a problem. A transport committee has been reassigned to projects very far back in the program. Similarly, the above talks have shown that there was a good harmony with the committee in working on these matters. I'd like to mention from my district, the Norwegian-West District, the roads such as the Forest Coast Road, and the Waters Road that were out in the distance as planned in the autumn, but have now been moved closer in time, and may be on the other side of the road, at least in the autumn. is getting much closer. Likewise, the roads such as Caldadal Road, Uxams, Snæfells Road, and Mount Þjórður - are about to begin to be offered - again, to be named. Only ports are added in the treatment of members of the Committee. In most parts of the country, goats have waited for reforms for a length of time, though at different sites. I've been telling them how to build up the country. It is of utmost importance that dock conditions are in line with local needs, since the rest of communities in many parts of the world is based on the rejection of its purpose. In order to run public transportation in the country. In a country where Buss is run, there's a very hard time, and many rural communities are very tough. They need to carry their share of the cost they face, and they have repeatedly appealed to the State for more control. It's something that's been in a sort of a stand-up contest at a meeting. I have personally attended a meeting of parts of the country in connection with that matter. It has to be said, as it is, that the business is very heavy, and as I told many farm members, it would be difficult to look at other solutions in that regard. I'd like to cut down on the Committee's opinion 2rd of the environment and transport committee on transport. That opinion is signed by the whale. Councilmen of Bergþór Ólason and Karl Gauti Hjaltason. It even says, by permission of the president: ▪ Other smaller items support the emphasis and viewpoints expressed in the opinion of the greater part that there is a significant need to work on all transport activities and to endeavor to meet the urgent maintenance and new needs in the transport system. Other smaller items stress the priority of transport projects in terms of their efficiency, their equality between parts of the country, their cohesion and their safety perspectives. It will be emphasized to expand individual sectors, break isolation, and facilitate the way of inhabitants to attend service, especially health care, regardless of where they live in the country. - These are equal reasons for getting into that service and making it between parts of the country, no matter where people live. --one of my things is cheering up the extra capital that's supposed to be on the road, flying, turning down and saving the road and supporting the intentions of the greater part. In particular, a lower part of the project supports more than one part of the Committee to look for all ways to improve transport progress further than is being done in a transport programme. That's where we come to the trouble I was talking about in the beginning. The need for investment has increased, and somehow we have not managed to reduce that factor and may now be explaining, as I did, how we are geographically located, in a large country, and in a small country, but also in what has come up in economics and so on. I was beginning to be optimistic about our reaching a better place, but then we now go through a crisis with this virus that has put more and less globally on its side, and that has been a huge cost to the government. It may be difficult to get angry at what that problem will be, but it will certainly become someone. I was happy, when I listened to the executive part of a major transport committee measuring for the Commission's list of parts last night, to be looked forward to working according to the current schedule, but the situation would be better taken in the fall when implementation and financial programmes are introduced. I hope things can work out that look before we got into this situation. I think the need to see that the need is urgent, and we need to see the development of transportation as a major priority. It is not good to lose the vampire again, but I became optimistic after that story and after reading and listening to the talks yesterday and the cohesion that is part of a transport committee to work on these matters in a way that has a chest and a point in the back. Of course, it takes all the money, and in terms of financing on the road, I agree with the way that has been spoken of, to go into the debt of financing, i.e. that the State is taking loans to help with projects In this regard 150 billion have been identified, and today growth in historically low, and some even negative ones, as in foreign coins. So it is a monopolize to look closely to that in connection with financing. It may be what I have felt is missing from this work, or it may not be very clear how to finance projects, and it is often abandoned when such discussions take a long time, and, of course, each person has an opinion that it is long - term and difficult to make decisions. I'd like to grab back to the Commission opinion of the 2nd minor part that says, by permission of the President: ▪ One of the smaller things makes comments on the implementation of the future budget of traffic only as far as the case is concerned, and it is important that this work be made when making road decisions. Teamworks (PPP) and the so - called transport contract of the capital area. It is essential that the reference levels of roads be clearly stated as soon as possible. It will discuss the implementation of the discounters and will give the smaller portion a special attention to reduced car owners'curses to meet those costs. When this route is implemented, a product product collection of those who have to pass many roadways should be avoided, e.g. to attend service to the capital. This is what I feel needs to be put at the front of this job because it is impossible to do anything unless it is reasonably predictable how to finance it, apart from the cost of it. For example, two years ago I had become a bit optimistic about being a good driver in these matters when it was discussing the construction of infrastructure courses in the capital area. Then there was the means of currency, and it appeared to each one in it. But there seemed to be a measure of calmness in the discussion of the local people as well as in the capital area, when the discussion developed and developed, and thus transportation could be accelerated in the region. It's going to hold onto you a little bit. But since this optimism came to my attention, there have been other things that have happened, and I'm not going to enter it in this talk, but perhaps later in a talk about a member of six rural society in the capital area. It's basically fine that it's going to be framed. But there is much unclear about this, such as. has been across the city line and how to finance it and how it all should look. It is clear that transportation in the capital area, where most people live, has been replaced, and everyone agrees on that. I think it's kind of sad to see it, for example. that the roads that were nearly at construction levels 15 years ago or so, through Dizziness, are much further back in the process and hardly clear how to implement them today because of the low capacity for the work done by many sources. However, if that road were to be built, regardless of whether it were a bridge, a tunnel, or any other route, it would completely change the situation from city to city and into the city and facilitate transportation. It would be the case with Aranesp and the city'snes, e.g. Much closer to Reykjavík. From there people would go to work south of the city, and if this road were laid, it would be much easier. It's a little hard to see why this has worked out. But the rest of the highways, and the south, and out of the levy, are in business, and are good and good for it. But there's some way out in the cold, and it's really pathetic. It is not normal for all the weight on highway 1 to go through Mosfellsville, through all those calls, with all the danger of it, and so forth, the insecurity that is obvious because something could happen, a natural disaster, or something that would just close that way. At any rate, the urban region has a number one priority for transport, and a huge effort has to be made. I'm from a country-wide district, it's the best district in the country, but at the same time the smallest district in America. It must be handled, so that no more is said. But my time is up, chief. Mr President, I'm gonna call it a day.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u63	Mr. President. I decided to jump a little. In view of the great truth that modern - day transportation in the capital area has long eluded a senator. There has been considerable lack of structure, and this has been mainly because governments at any given time have not wanted to reach this structure and have left it in the city. But in view of this and in the light of the stand of men. As you have heard, a senator has asked me to curious about his vision of the future in the transport issues of the capital. Then I'm not only saying how to get somewhere in the city but also the main exits out of the city. Thus, there have been times when people who want to increase the number of roads and keep the place and position of their private car, as well as those who oppose cars and so on. I think it's incredibly simple and really wrong. It is about having flexible choices when it comes to transportation and has improved considerably in recent years. But in view of the fact that the issue is often set up that way, it would be most interesting to hear a decision. A senator and a vision. Is this merely a matter of keeping the present system, or is there something else and a better thing to look for?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u64	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for the counter, and the questions. Friends or enemies of the car - I'm not on either team. I introduced a transport situation in the capital area that has long been under discussion. I can see the footways that obviously have to be fixed. In terms of transportation in the city, it has been found that the increased use of public cars has not lived up to its expectations. There have been reports of hardships on the streets, and that is a fact. You've been stopped in traffic yourself. I speak for the mixed streets, where it is appropriate and easy transportation for cars on the main roads of the city. At the same time, it would clear the way for bus cars to drive. I can't figure out the way they're talking about the city line, how much it's supposed to cost or what it's supposed to be. But I'm not taking a position or a reception. People are traveling a lot on wheels and walking or in other ways, and that's the best thing, but I don't speak against one or another in this relationship.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u65	Mr. President. The planning of the city line and the main design features as well as the cost assessment are well available. This has been so for a long time, and everyone can learn about it. I know that as if we're both... me and what. A senator, so - called regional council members, may not be expected to fit in with these items. But it's still so that the majority of the population lives in the capital area, and I think everybody goes to the service here at some point. It is only natural, therefore, that no matter where they live or for whom they speak, they place themselves in part in these objects. Hence, it is important that people discern things such as a mysterious demand, an important concept of transport, i.e. that people realize that rising road distance does not necessarily reduce the delay in the road because more people will leave those who would not have used the road before. It may be true that buses were actually better before a set of events were arranged on the way in 2004, or about there, and there is a plan for a new bus route system that will hopefully improve considerably. But this is a point that I find difficult to handle in the case of a senator and many of his party members, that it is somehow pretended to be bringing down the mixed - up streets here and there is some kind of magic solution. Of course, all of this needs to be examined in a specific context, and the context is based on research and evidence. Some of that is available, something has to be added, but we know that it is not enough to say: Yes, yes, we add more wrong corners and ignore all data about, for example. Hide demand.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u66	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the second answer. I'm no expert on these matters, but I know what it's like to be stuck in traffic. The Senator mentioned that we in my category are opposed to this, but that we may not have the answers to where we would like to get a mild front and such. It's not quite that simple. But one of the things that stops us in the context of the formation of this society is caused more and less by elected representatives and brought to the company to be formed. That will reduce the power of politicians to address these issues, and that's what I'm getting out of it. There is also so much in the agreement that there is fog and smoke in terms of cost estimates, exports, and so on. But we certainly do not object to the idea of getting it to a drifter. Rather, it is just the export and the power to be taken from elected agents we don't like. Yet, enough is the feeling that we politicians have become limited in power, and this does not increase with the institution of this group.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u67	A respectable president. We are dealing with a transport plan for the 2020 2020 20203, a period of 141⁄215 years. I thought it was fun that my pages of the majority's committee party, along with adjustments in proposals and proposals for evangelization. This is just over 100 pages! and the best fleece. It's like good books. There's a little bit of truth in this, and there's fantasies, and that's a lot of nonsense. At the outset of the committee's opinion, there are 400 billion investments in one road system. That's a lot of money. But if we put it in context of what we know to throw into the city line right away in the first phase, 120 billion in something that no one really knows what is, that is a failure. The transport program has been replaced with a plan for a five - year plan and a 15 - year plan. Funds calculate that the total package presented in the Parliament's resolution form is 637 billion, with a range of about 560 billion. This is a huge amount of money if we look at it in view of the fact that we have a private project in this road program. In the majority of the committees' list, the President's permission puts it under word: ▪ Emphasized three ways in collecting user bills: payment of three main foundations to and from the capital, a cooperative approach (PPP) and a payment in a tunnel. We also know that many personal projects are being planned on a road program that may cost us enormously. It tells itself that those who are going to build this on their own want to get everything back with interest and profit so that the fees could be high and I don't talk about when they're going to be paid in a very small way, as shown in a discussion here at a council that they should pay on the road above Axi in the East. And if it should have been worth the cost, I'm just saying, God help anyone who had planned to drive there. The same would no doubt have gone 20 miles [60 km] longer to escape the gigant costs that would have been paid to cover expenses. As a result, this is not realistic. But somehow, if everything is going to work out, and there are a lot of headaches, it will have to be financed. Of course, as the situation on the international loan market, it would be most reasonable for the State to borrow money for projects, set out in exports, and, as a result, take on very practical loans. The rates have never been better than now. The cost might be greatly reduced, and if it were to be sent out, it would hopefully be a battle for the project, and it would be much more practical. It's kind of a giant project, and some of these projects are very urgent and good, like a tunnel. Especially are there important tunnels in the east. One of the priorities is the Fjords, one of the priorities. Then, of course, there is a tunnel between Sufjörður and Northfjörður. Fortunately, this is one of the plans. This shows the need for a tunnel to be noted in the Committee to cover most of the objects. It contains e.g. Skulls of rock and roll, or Ishonour, Isla Fjordur, Sigluður, Fultur, Lonhegur, the Grinch, the Taurus, the Half-Volden, the Great Valley, Koffahön, and the Westfadways. And then, of course, there's a double Hahfjörður in there as well as the dream-like Dizziness Way. I call her dreamy because she's such a distant dream, she's always in the discussion and always in the eye, but it doesn't really happen at all. One of the things very interesting in the committee, and in many respects, it is a highway of Honored Tracks or Bishopsmen. A dangerous area in which traffic is high should be corrected. Our approach to Mount Turfjörður on the Foxy and Mount Morgoth Road in the Lax River is to be accelerated by two years. But most important of all, additional productions will be spent on improved bridges of the road. Perhaps the most remarkable thing is that we still have 36 monotonous bridges on the ring road, which are talking about reducing them by eight. Still, there are still 28 remaining, which is not acceptable because one - walled bridges are only 4 meters [4 m] wide and sometimes narrower. There's a 50-mile-an-hour drive, and they're full of accidents. We also need to take an injury into account. Because they prove to be enormously expensive to us, it is vital that one - beam bridges be no more. I would have thought it an ambitious plan in such a plan to simply destroy them completely. We should have had it planned to take it out in five to ten years, but it's not that good. I couldn't help but say what. The leading authority of the committee opinion of the majority of the section. It showed that by permission of the president, they are expected to develop an area of Akureyri airport, or, as the report puts it: ▪ It begins to build a field of Akureyri airports, which includes the expansion of the air station along with the sound of an airport. These plans will strengthen the state of the Akureyri airport as key ports into the country and support tourism and transportation to and from the country. In an investment campaign 2020, however, additional funding was adopted for implementation at Akureyri Airport, on the airport, and on the airport. The Committee describes satisfaction with this injection and suggests changes in Table 5 in the five-year transport programme and Table 2 in the transport plan for the 2020 2020 2020, according to the investment initiative, as follows. Parliamentary Reconception No. 28/150 and its appendix. That'll be 200 million. K. ... and300,000. K. to the airport in 2020. The Commission then emphasizes that the work programme will be followed by the work programme in the years 20213/42024, scr. a section on the focus of the Committee.• It's not about radar equipment, and it's clear that the money given will not be refurbishing it, but will be for flying. The fact is, the radar system at Akureyri Airport has reached its age and is closely monitored for its effectiveness. The estimated cost of renewal is 1,000 million. K. and he's not in a transport program. Of course, it's very bad because there's a huge need for a safety safety guard, and I don't think he's gonna be in there. And I believe it because of what. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason, executive director of the committee opinion, said that this would be one of the things they would carefully consider. I believe it will be done. The Commission suggests changes in transport programmes, e.g. on Cyslíkíkíkíkíkíkíkíasun, that implementation is moving in the first season of the programme. That's extremely important. It's a long time to finish the Smokey Way because it's one of the largest and most dangerous roads in the country. Happily, it is about to complete a double course from the Kryrsavík so that it will be double-wrecked into Capparika and when Krysavíkway and Whaleshaft are behind just after making two - foot - wide roads from Njardíkíkíkík and into Chefjordur Airport. The commission stated that the development and separation of road policy on the way of the Bedhástourland Road will be accelerated and the complete project will be completed in 2021, which is very good. It also says: ▪ Perpet: Ringways, capitals in preparation and design. Smokey Way: Fiery paste paste, funded in preparation and prototypes to melt Smokejanes Way from Fjord to Móðd [...] Snowfells Road through Forest Coast. Partly during the 1st period, the process is moving. - That's very good. --Borg's soil road, Eiðar-lau-flaus. We'll make the roads quick. In line with the investment campaign, the Committee adds to the change of 1 billion years. will add funding for building with roadways in 2020 It's just the best part. But the biggest and most controversial issue in this is the so - called city line, which is totally unique. We know how the transportation system has been with the bus. It is not good, and it is not good to try with all sorts of obstacles to squeeze into the private car and to force people to take advantage of the bus route. That's not true. But worse still, this is, in effect, the government's paying 45 billion with the job. Accelerators and traffic costs will be charged for some 60 billion, but rural areas will only pay 15 billion. The city line is primarily for the inhabitants of the no - car capital area, and it will be largely financed by taxpaying drivers, as well as by the financial resources of the state, which are said to pay. This is, in fact, the strangest thing to do because once again, there is the amazing situation of selling land, in this case of Kldnaland, to cover much of the cost. If it doesn't quite work out, they'll pay for the difference. This is absolute Lotto, and we also know and know from past experiences that when something is to be sold and earmarked, it has not been successful. We know it from the phone language, when the phone was sold. There was money to go to a Land Hospital ◯ University hospital, and we know how it ended. The money was vaporized. I'm afraid a similar situation might arise in this matter. Most seriously, though, I find the huge sum to begin with. Sadly, though, the organization on the city line has not set up any meaningful location, so there are actual plans for how this blessed city line is to function. Lately, all of the solutions to this tremendous traffic problem in Reykjavík, where people are stuck on their way from half an hour to an hour to summer and up to two, three hours in the winter, just one way, they were cityline, while letting these delays stay on just to force people to go to the city line not work. That's impossible. We have to make sure that things are resolved. It is said that a better light operating system can speed up, but real improvements and solutions are for example. Diversity, soiled road, and prevented e.g. in a cut - open field, through the cutting field, but such solutions are not in the carpentry. Except for the break-in, but it's just put in as a carrot. And I don't think he wants it to come in any way, it's never going to happen. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u68	Mr. President. We're here to discuss transport plans, both for the next four years and for the next 15 years. As a senator of the Southwestern district, and as a member of the capital area, I aim to give a speech to focus on the capital area under the two transport programs that we address here, with an estimated 753/480% of all traffic in Iceland taking place in the capital area. As clearly indicated in the case of a man. paritaprevir Sadly, in the years that followed, the powers of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, the capital of the capital area, as well as the construction of transportation projects, have been financed. The newest figures show that only about 17% of the new transport funds in the country have been implemented in the capital area. As the committee says, more than half of it is. The environment and transport committees have changed quite a bit since the five-year and 15-year transport programmes were submitted to the council in December 2019. Because of a pandemic crown virus, the presidents have made changes. So there are ideal circumstances for infrastructure in today's state, when we face historically high unemployment and, unfortunately, we are sailing into one of the greatest depressions that has fallen upon us here in Iceland as well as on the whole world. In response to the results of the pandemic, the government presented the date of March 30. specific temporary investment initiatives to counteract economic contractions. Consolation No. 28/150, yep. 1203 was approved at the General Assembly, but among the focus of the investment campaign is the means of transportation and other initiatives. In that resolution, 6,506,000,000 charges are reported. will be taken into account in addition to the proposed proposal for transport, as well as a total of 1,917,000,000. to other infrastructure tools. Mr. President. This is an enormous amount of money that we are posting and injecting into our transport system, so there is a challenge. So I'd like to discuss how we can combine environmental issues here. At the same time, we can have a major impact on the development of the environment over the years, especially on air quality and greenhouse gas emissions. In this context, the review of Land Protection, which deals quite well with these aspects when it comes to transport environmental factors, is an important factor. It is of interest, as noted in the review of Land Protection, to assess the impact of a greenhouse gas emissions programme and the aim of the government is to reduce their transport emissions substantially. It seems, at least, that the two transport programmes have not been taken sufficiently into account. Maybe there'll be a reason. Environment and Transport Committee members up to correct it from me or provide examples of how the environmental issues are clear in the environmental and transport programme below. When it comes to a projection as huge as the two transport programmes under which they are used, we are obliged to evaluate the major environmental agendas as well as the international commitments of Iceland. So I also agree to the review of Land Guard's review that in the plan, the aims and measures needed to achieve progress, in order to include the share of eco-friendly cars at the end of the period, that the share of public transportation, cycle, and walking, in the number of travels within the capital area will reach 30% and that there will be passengers in internal air and public transport between local communities. This part needs to be examined according to what I mentioned in the past on environmental and climate issues. That's why I think we need it as a clear rule and a clearer order than we can find here. If we're going to add to public transportation, we're going to have to do better than we're going to see here. A similar indication is found in the National Railing Association on these two transport plans that in the plan and in other government plannings, a targeted policy on the role of environmental transport and the change in travel practices is lacking. These changes are necessary for governments to live up to their commitments, including their commitments. On climate issues. It is also interesting here - because, Mr. President, I intend to stick to the EEA's environmental agenda - to provide information on the EEA with interesting tips on the coordination of the transport programme to the water management and integration programmes related to them. Similarly, the EEA's reference work on the implementation of a transport strategy will be in full agreement with the water management programme, as well as the fact that the Keflavour airport plans will be provided with a text that the airport will be exemplary in environmental management and will follow up. The first shut - down system to capture pollutants from the airport, such as delinquency material. I think this is a good tip and needs, and I'd love to hear it from here on out. Council members of the Committee on These matters. When it comes to environmental matters, the largest action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is to increase the share of public transport. It is hardly necessary to account for the world's benefits, less distances, less greenhouse gas emissions and lower emissions of pollutants, less traffic congestion, and lower rates of accidents. It also highlights a wide variety of travel patterns ahead of the private car that will, as well as our research and knowledge show, bring a great deal of public health benefits along with the recession of greenhouse gas emissions. This is reflected in the interesting response of urban communities abroad, which include the major and most notable reactions of large millions of cities to the Korean epidemic, when it comes to flogging cycle paths within urban communities, as well as giving in the development and growth of public transport. I can hardly say, since I speak here as a senator of the Southwestern district, about a fairly harsh comment on Mosfellstown's transport strategy. True, it is January 13, and I was just trying to figure out if I had responded to the information presented there. However, this is the only community in the area near Reykjavík, in the capital area, in Kraga, that sends a specific report, saying that there is not a single word about the cost of making road transport. The rural areas in the capital area have asked for a state assessment for the requested roads and for which they will be given a suitable condition before being delivered to the local community. Also, the Mosfellstown comments on the development of Western roads that I think came up to some extent, but I found it difficult to see in the transport program whether or not Mosfellstown's projections about projects on the Þingvalva Road. I think that would have to happen, and hopefully we'll have to explain why. Council members of the Environment and Transport Committee. We're talking here about public transportation. Of course, the largest show there is a transport contract made between the state, Reykjavíkurburg, and the rest of the capital area. The covenant is a landmark piece that helps to improve public transportation in the capital area in a long-term schedule in which all concerned commit to it. Nevertheless, in the capital area, the Union calls it a better implementation of public transportation in the capital area by their growth in the state's climate bonds. Based on the amount of money that will be taken to the end of the city project, we would also need to watch the number of people who have made use of public transportation. We also watch that we are raising generations that consider it much better to use public transportation than to save for a private car. I think that the vision we can envision here is not only that of the State covenant but also that of the city and of the country, the city line and its growth, but we also need to keep our hands on the transport work. And there's another issue that has to do with the transport programme, which is called the Ohf case that we're going to discuss below regarding the establishment of a member of a society that will keep up with the transport process. When it comes to public transportation in the capital area, I think it is going to double the share of public transportation, from 4% to 8%, on all trips within the capital area before 2022, more bold goals could be achieved. You might think of raising that share in the movements of the capital area much more, and the establishment of the State to public transport in the capital area is absolutely necessary there to improve the ministry. With more frequent travel and longer driving time, passengers have increased significantly. Despite the statistics presented here, the fact that no one is making use of public transportation in the capital area is still increasing. When talking about public transportation, we also need to recognize that walking and riding are a major part of it. As shown in the bill, the population has grown to the largest extent here in urban areas, so walking and riding have become even more valid. More variable travel is not only part of environmental and climate policy but also of public health issues. When we get out of this pandemic, we are concerned with better health and health issues, and it is time to strengthen and strengthen the infrastructure of walking and rolling road users, and it is good to see the more money in it. The rural areas in the capital area have blessed largely with funding the founding cost of bicyclists and their operations, but recently the Road Building amounted to 2 billion in the building of the founding system. According to the transport contract, it is assumed that the work will continue to be done vigorously to strengthen and improve it. As we know, more than 50 billion people are to enter the urban line and the growth of public transportation during the period, while 8.2 billion are to be swept into the increase in cycle path and footpaths, hiking, and subpassing. That commitment is incredibly important to all of us. Of course, when I speak here about public transportation in the capital area and their need, public transportation across the country is not excluded. I hope most of the people in the country agree with me that, of course, we need to advance more and more public transport in the country. But I miss not seeing a clear, comprehensive schedule across the country all over the country. I have previously mentioned this aspect of transportation. But I hope it's fixed. I want to make them a wish. I think it would be a benefit to all, and it would be successful for us to make a comprehensive public transportation program for the country all the way, although we and the members of the capital area have also discussed the need for a special public transport program for the capital area. I'm not gonna keep this for a while, Mr. President. There are a number of factors in a transport program until 2034, and much emphasis is placed on flight and airports. There are some references to the Scottish route in this transport program. I have been one of those who have criticized further government subsidies on air transport, most likely out of equilibrium, but also from environmental reasons. I remind you that the so - called Scottish way has not been without criticism in Scotland. For example, the Scottish route is used only in every faraway location in Scotland, as if for certain locations in the Hahltland Islands, but not to international airports, as we expect. I'll have it over for a while. I think I presented my views on public transportation and the environmental issues. I think it's a good idea that we've added in this handsome way an additional amount of money for the pandemic. I think it's necessary and urgent, because now's the time to improve government projects. Hopefully, from now on, we too will be able to take all such large plans out of parentheses and evaluate them from climate impact.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. It contained very important environmental views and other factors. I'd like to start by stopping by the water program for a second. I reflected on what I had been able to make this winter when we received this wonderful visit from the EEA, where the matter was handled well. In fact, it revealed that the first water program will not really exist until 2022. In the meantime, an organization of rural partners will need to take into account this and all transport activities. Thus, the link to a transport program. We're in, what am I supposed to say, some time now where the basic work is still not working. My question to why. The senator is: Does not the senator believe that the water program will ensure that the plan will influence transportation in the way I described earlier? Then I wanted to ask in words at the end of the talk, perhaps misjudged, but I thought the senator said that the Scottish route could be used in international flights. According to my understanding, a certain distance must be first from the capital to use the route, using it between capital areas and remote parts of the country. It has been observed right now that it is very difficult to travel where air travel is impaired.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's video for her explanation of what I came across because of the EEA's information on integrated water management and the implementation of a transport programme. Like what? A senator mentioned the difference in water management, once it becomes a reality, becomes part of a transport plan, and will take steps to work on a transport plan when we next go to it. It's fine and it's good. This is just an example of how we can work these big plans together and integrate them. About the second thing. A member of the council was pointing out that in Scotland this so - called Scottish route, which has been so much discussed here at the council, has reached only the most distant locations and is the exception of international airports. It is distributed in Scotland, just as it is here, although I do not know for myself the exact number of miles between international airports in Scotland and the most distant settlements in the Hjaltland Islands. But there the thought has been to help all the scattered areas, the perimeters, to get some kind of subsidence on the airports. I also remind you that this state is already subsiding air travel. I think we'd need to take the deeper discussion of an even greater payment on the airport. Of course, I understand the views presented, and I understand the national viewpoint of wanting to ensure a pay and a good flight to their home. But I think we also need to take into account EEA State Strength Regulations as well as environmental considerations when it comes to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I want to start on the Scottish way. I don't see any difference in the export here, it's the most distant places and transportation to those areas that offer health care, education, culture, etc. I know that Scotland is the population of those faraway areas at least. 70,000, i.e. This is what 70,000 people are going to die of. We don't have nearly so many people here. I don't know the percentage of the nation. Energy exchange in flight has been substantially introduced in connection with transport and flying policy. If they do, the flight may still be an environmental option in comparison with other transport methods. Would this possibly affect the vision of the senator on the Scottish route? Then I'd like to step in on the Mosfells and the Roads. It was given a bill just before Christmas where there was room for this food. The British highway has been issued, but when this report came through, it was there a ambiguity that was going to be solved. This has been solved and guaranteed by an investment plan 2020 that the project can be carried out. The Third Street Circle Circle is waiting for something and is full of it in the system. But on the matter of words. A senator for the public transport programme of the capital area, I don't quite understand it because there are now public transports within urban areas with my rural society. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u72	Mr. President. If we start with the Scottish route, it's good to have these numbers on rhythms, that it reaches some 70,000 inhabitants of Scotland, as there are plenty more Scots than we do. But I wondered, " Is it justifiable for the Scottish route, as in Iceland, to the largest airport in the country that is classified as international airports, such as Eglish Airport and Akureyri Airports? ' So when it comes to government grants, would we not have more solid land? Likewise, if we wanted to look at the national agendas, we would be more inclined to make flights to all the remotest airports. As an example, I'm going to say how good it is, or Patrek's fun or what small airports that would be. In terms of a public transport program in the capital area, I have repeatedly called in speeches and requested to work in the global public transport program. Now I have to admit that I don't quite remember where that work is, but it's also reason to ask ourselves, " Is the major public transportation strategy might be better accomplished by making a special plan for public transport for the capital area, such as the transport problem could really be, as a public transportation program for the capital area. This may be an efficient way because there are quite different viewpoints that come to us when we talk about public transportation in the country and in the capital area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u73	V.E.G. President. We'll talk about transportation, and I've heard, both today and yesterday, very well discussed. This time, my opening point will be Northeast and the whole country, the whole country. I'd especially like to consider that part of the transport committee was offered yesterday. I see that the latter part of the Committee agrees with the greater part, by permission of the President: ▪ There is a significant need for transport development in all areas of transport and for the aim to meet the urgent maintenance and new needs of transport. In addition, a lower 2 proportion of transport projects will be prioritised for the practicality and equality between parts of the country, regional and safety perspectives. It is hardly necessary to mention the circumstances that exist today, and many have mentioned that transport practices now work well and are economicly practical. It is always good to think of the land as a whole, as a community. This involves making a total plan that will deal with all aspects of society and the vision we have for the country. A short and long - term treatment schedule must then agree on one way to the best possible support. It is important that this is how opportunities and opportunities are being reinvented throughout the country, and transport is especially involved. This leads me to the country's international airfields, at least two of the largest. In today's state of life, we simply need to consider opening more than one portal to our country. Having more than one portal to the country is not only a matter of tourists, but also of security for the whole country. It is good to see the financial resources in flight at Akureyri Airport, as well as at the airport, and the funds are also placed in the Eglsstand Airport. It's definitely about my district. I would have liked to see more money, and I would have liked to see a little more into the future. This funding to be set is sufficient to take soil work, if I think of the Akureyri Airport, and the design of an air base there, and at Egls places, there is money to go to the track. If I think only of Akureyri, then time does not work directly with us where there is uncertainty about how soils in the area will behave, the soil where the sound of air is supposed to be staying. It's starting to work, but then there's a question of how all of this is going to look toward the construction of a terminal. It is mentioned in a report published by the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs in March 2020, by the permission of a president: Because of uncertainty about the properties of the construction site and the potential for a soil fill, it is important to start the work on the ground as soon as possible. Building time from the completion of the property is in the second year. The report, in fact, quotes another report written by Eflu and published in 2018: The appearance of the new air base has not been specifically examined. Time must be set aside for soil analysis, whether using basic stakes for its development or for the change of soil, but transportation may be a challenge in building the existing facilities. The older part of the terminal is filling up, and the basement is in the oldest part of it. This must be started as early as possible so that a decision on the basis is established in time, but the time required to be filled and discarded can be expected to take up to 6◯8 months. It is expected that the overall construction period of a new air base will never be less than 2 years, with changes and improvements in the current air base of about 6 months. The current oilport needs to be moved to its future position before moving to transport. A new septic or cleaning station must be put down, or the sewage system must be connected to the city of Akureyri City. When transfer is completed, these areas must be prepared and squared and waiting for an acceptable sickle to continue in the construction and processing of these areas. It can be assumed that this procedure could take up to 12 months. Like I say, time doesn't work with us directly. This is very important, not just for us in the north and east of the country, it's a policy of settlement. Most of us would like to keep the whole country built, and if we want to keep flying as public transportation, this must be kept in mind. In fact, I believe the locals, both in Akureyri and in Egls, were quite patient. It wasn't so long before we heard it that everything should be put on full ground, but in the picture we must have that all of this will take the time I told you about it. I welcome special discussions about the subject of EGNOOS, as a matter of course. Today and yesterday, members of Parliament have discussed the discussion. I also refer to a 2nd memory of a part of the Transport Committee on Reykjavík, which is defined as the centre of an international flight, which says, by permission of the president: A smaller portion of this section considers it incorruption to be irreversible without adequate analysis of the effect of this structure on flight security. In this regard, Istavia's deal with the Dutch Space Administration has been identified in July 2020 - which is not in such a long time. In this regard, let's keep in mind that the centre of the hospital flight is in Akureyri. It's all very important. It's holding hands. I'd like to state that a flight I've enjoyed as a public transportation. I would have even wanted to see the assessment of the number of passengers in the country, how much we're building streets in the country, and as a basis for how we can take care of the whole group. You may need to start by looking at the bus or by seeing what road Bujo is taking you, which paths you carry, where they are at expense, and where you may not. Maybe they're not supposed to be at the expense, that's just a decision. But all of this could be examined and a decision could be made not to have large cars where they are not needed. In our neighboring countries, and that's what I've learned through the northern community, cars are used by people. It is even a community that runs this service or offers it at least to get members to care for the ministry. We know this as a service for the disabled and the elderly in Iceland. But I could see that we could dive into this and see if we were throwing money in there. I would much rather use them to further the air travel. As noted in a few cases, the small airports we have to protect are the ones. True, they are being worked to correct them in order to be acceptable, for this too is important when we are considering moving patients for some reason all in Reykjavík. It must be practical to dive into this. I'm sure public transportation can be arranged, and I'm also sure that transportation will be a whole way of life. I find it very exciting to monitor the development of energy exchange, especially in flight, and I found it very interesting to hear about it today, but I'm going to make it work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u74	V.E.G. President. We're here on transport programmes, and there's always a big event at the council when we talk about them. During the years I've been here, it's always been a long and intense discussion, and it's only normal because both the transport and the importance of national parts, and even between classes and members of Congress. There are debates about how to share the limited resources usually divided when it comes to these matters as well as others. It is, however, and I think that everyone realizes that the charges and taxes and the items that are collected from vehicles do not run all the way to the classes associated with the vehicles or their owners, and perhaps the situation would be slightly different if we were to change it. This does not mean that they are necessarily useful, but it is another task to review the government's business and to draw it together, which is extremely important to do as soon as possible. I'm just gonna give you a few questions on this and, in fact, on the other hand. spend some time on public transportation, the city line, and I know that not everyone is surprised. But I would like to start by saying in the beginning that public transportation is very important. It is important that we have a powerful system that will take advantage of public transportation. However, they must be realistic. Of course, they also need to be for another demand, and they must be in such a state. You can also argue that public transport is not available. We can then begin to wonder what public transportation is and what it is not. However, I would like to reflect on one thing, which was pointed out to me by a man who has studied the economy and the like, that when economic growth is and advancement in the economy, people invest in all kinds of tools, tools, and facilities, including automobiles, which, in a downturn, are so reduced, and people normally travel more with public transportation. In a 2019 travel survey, these objects are not to be considered, they are simply being measured, as the survey is, how people use public transportation. In fact, it's not particularly surprising that there are different neighborhoods in the capital area, I'm going to talk about the capital area in this case, and towns. However, it is necessary to consider, when making such observations, whether the situation in the economy or the economy is correlated with older research and such factors. I'm just saying this because it's so important to have some phase we can compare with. I don't think there's much evidence for today to put on the enormous investment we see in the so - called city line. I think there are ample reasons to try to improve public transportation, especially for those in such groups that are unable to own or even unwilling to own a car - there is an alternative, of course, which should be respected. It is important to remember that I have a link between economic conditions and tourism. According to that, you wonder what the effect at a certain time will be. This is done up to a total of 100 to 120 billion, which is all referred to here, i.e. implementation in urban areas and related projects. These are enormous sums of money, and it is very important that what they have to give back. However, when I asked why, it was in opposition today. A senator, that's not in the way. The quality of the project has not been analysed. At the same time, there are no management plans for this. It's very important - and now I see someone else. Senators shake their head - that if there is a profit analysis on this city line project, it's gonna show up. [[Up front.]] It's very important. What, though, is the result of that decision? It would be nice to get that out if there is a conclusion but why. A senator I asked today wasn't aware of it. I also want to think about this so - called city line that when there is no answers - and maybe after - the total cost of this project makes me feel very important to stop and try to figure out the total cost of the project. There is no way to leave an open check for the state funds. I feel that when it comes to this project, people are a little careless about the financial resources. Of course, rural politics and political politics play into this and, of course, the views that are divided on transportation. I believe, however, that it is very important to teach Icelanders, and I am no exception, to use public transportation. I think it would be a good step to build a certain knowledge of them and to use them before these projects are carried out. In fact, I've thought for a long time that public transportation, especially since it's the most important thing, should be free. Transport is to be free of charge because it is important for certain groups. This would mean that humans would use it more and more than today, perhaps building for further expansion, as it were. I feel like people are starting on the wrong end. The rise in public transport has not been consistent with the expectations already set in motion by postponing projects in the capital area and placing billions into the transport system, it has not been impossible. Although this 2009 survey says that about 5% of the public transportation that is increasing between the surveys, it was for a long time in 4%. It's also very important to teach people how to use it, and I repeat that I'm not the exception of it. I'd like to mention one thing as a boy. Brynjólfsdóttir This is the complete plan for public transportation. I found it very interesting, and I think it's important to watch public transportation in our vast, vast country, the few, as a whole, and take not only busloads into it but also flights and transporters where it means and try to plan this whole thing for the future. To me, the international flight is part of the public transport system, and I know that it is even defined that way. So it's important that this is the value of a whole course, I agree with it by reason. A senator named it. I mentioned the eve of the city line, the cost cycle, and the profit analysis, but interest is interesting to see the results of profit prices. There are men who are better than I in these calculations, when it comes to design and cost and all of that, I don't know how to make profit on something that no one knows what's gonna cost. No one has been able to determine the cost of the city line at the end of the day. Of course, this would include a measure of risk, unless it is totally expedient at the General Assembly, if the State Fund is committed to keeping open to this project. There is no debate that the entire road system is extremely important, and one of the largest investments in the state, as stated in the committees and the available information. It is very important to pay attention to this investment, which unfortunately has not been done enough. There are reasons behind this, and no one alone is to blame or anything like that. However, it is important when there is an opportunity to put money on the transportation system, the road. We've seen it in recent years, while there was a great showup in tourism, which hopefully will be in part again, it's very important that that that investment is in order. I'd also like to mention in the context that I agree with what is said in many of the texts available to us in energy exchange and in making our country people and those visiting us able to use eco-friendly vehicles, is extremely important, and we are to look for ways to support it. I'd also like to promote that we might have to look for ways to do something more positive than we do today to reduce the use of fossil fuels. We're here to encourage a company, e.g. through the tax system, to switch to eco-efficient equipment and equipment - and possibly more than is being done today. In fact, I expected more when you looked at the flight section in a transport program. It has only been discussed in this discussion, and of course not all can be done. But you feel that it is only a lack of ambition because it is of great importance to the country, and, in fact, to bring tourists and its inhabitants to and from the capital. Air travel needs to be good and reasonable, so to speak, for those who choose to use it. It's a positive thing to put extra funds in transportation. The increased funding is obviously present in the system where we do not deliver all taxes and expenses that are taken from those using the transport system today. That is why I place a question mark when people are talking about - of course, it may have something to do with what is intended to be taken up - to add a spell to the people who use the roads. I'm going to reiterate what I said earlier that the loans of automobile owners have to reduce the extra curses planned for future use. This has also been the subject of the Brooklyn airport in Reykjavík, and I would like to agree with the critical points presented in page 2. It has also been observed in speeches that it is, of course, very special to see how the city or the mayor, the mayor of the city, the town's greater part, is struggling to destroy this airport and to get it - not in the swamp, it is - into the sea where he has no chance or to destroy it here in the capital. It is clear, however, that it is man's will to have the airport here for a considerable period of time, especially in view of the fact that it seems that it seems that people signed the existing meeting laws so as to remember that they would at least be at their place where they had found a new field in a new place, that everything was pacified and set. It has become important that the majority take the initiative, and what joy it would be if one succeeds in doing so! There must be a clear message to the city's authorities not to go back-to-back, as it seemed to be when we saw news the other day about a road that was to pass through an old shelter used by the airline of the Eagle that performs a wonderful service for us Icelanders in transport. Of course, certain funds are placed in the harbor, and I think I know that around the country there are people who would have liked to see more money there. It is very important to strengthen the ports of the whole country. Sea transport and fishing are very important to us. Here in the capital area or in the southwest corner, there are some harbors that are very large when it comes to all transports and countries and such. Of course, they need to continue to gain material wealth. Not to be overlooked, though, are less ports in a country that are often in the same age as lifeblood for smaller rural areas. I'm going to save it until later to consider my 1st part of the environment and transport committee because I just couldn't answer the question. S. The Brjánsson who wrote it. There are certain things that I just don't understand in that approach. But it's just as it is. A respectable president. The issues we will discuss here, the transport program 2020-2024 and the 2020-22034, are huge. It is only natural to talk about it, even to deal with it. I've asked a few questions, mostly wondered things about public transportation and maybe complain a little bit about not taking more money into them, though, of course, a considerable amount of money. Of course, money is limited and it looks for a angle in the money budget over the next few years, which, of course, we need to take into account. But I think it's very important that we focus on it over the next few months and years to look at the business of government funds, to stop the expansion that seems to be on the whole system, and to look for ways to draw together the government business and to move them out to private people what we can work there, use technology and equipment to save money so that we can save more money into such areas as transportation. President. I can't wait for people to come back to counter-sponsor and tell me what the city budget is, what interest is it, and what the strategy looks like. I asked one of the supporters of this case about it earlier today, but he had no answer. I can't wait to hear the answers if they're lying around. I reiterate my warnings, I don't feel that any of the issues of the transport contract here are linked to the capital area and to the countryside if there is any uncertainty about the responsibility of the State, the ultimate commitment of the State, whether in the present or the future. This must be available. If you think it's enough to write into the bills that the Council has the final word, then you have to explain what's enough, because we know that this needs to be very clear if that is to be done. I'm just gonna let myself put it that way and I'm not gonna say any more about it. But let it be over for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I may have been misheard, I'm not quite sure, but I thought why. A senator speaks of the importance of public transportation as self-sustaining. I'd like to pray. A senator is going to review it a little bit better or explain it if I have been misheard. Then I just wanted to talk about a big difference, like what. A senator came in. Now's the time. A member of the Environment and Transport Committee, in fact, but I thought it would be desirable, and I expect it to happen. A committee has done so, taking into account evidence that was at the time in connection with the preparation of this capital contract. Thus, much work had taken place in recent years in the rural areas of the capital area or in connection with the regional structure and further development of its strategy. At the same time, I remember that it was in the past. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, when he was the highest. A secretary of transportation, a reexamination of major intersections in the capital area, speech and analysis at a time, and where to say the problem lay. It's a whole system, and you can't just look at one roadside and say it's a problem and solve it because the problem just moves on to the next place. Therefore, all roads need to be watched. I think that there is a basis for a profit analysis, how important it is to deal with transport in the capital area as a whole. Wait a minute. A senator is only to enter the preflight of public transportation. And I also found that it was very interesting. A senator said that he would teach the public how to use public transportation. Would it be nice to hear some suggestions on that subject, how to visualize that certain societies, or states, will exploit them, who should do so, and how?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u76	V.E.G. President. The bus school - no, what I was talking about by teaching people how to use public transportation is, in fact, showing people the way they travel and then whether they are suitable for the person as soon as they want to try it. It has to do with the first question. A senator turned to me. You see, I think it's wrong to go to such large investments when the use is no more than it really is. I think you need to first teach people how to use the transportation before you start blowing the system so much as it looks like a city line. There we came to the previous question of the senator. I said it would be best, of course, for public transportation to take place. I also realize that in many places it cannot be expected. Then I added that it would be best, of course, that the capital area would be free in the street, it would only be free on public transportation. That's how I think people would learn to use them. With enough use, it may be possible to justify extensive projects. Then I am not necessarily referring to the great projects presented in this city line but to projects that make the way more clear. I remember hearing a travel expert say in lectures that there are various ways to make transportation easier. It is not just the version of the city line mentioned here, the three that have been mentioned, that there are other factors. It would be wish for public transportation to take place, but they probably do not. As a result, I think, we'll just have to accept it and say, "Hey, we just have free clothes, teach people how to use public transportation, and when people have learned to use it, we may be able to look at how we can make changes and expand the system. It is also very interesting to see in these studies that rural areas in the capital area differ greatly in how the inhabitants use public transportation and use bus transport today as well as who envision to use it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's answers. That's exactly what he said, that it would be a beautiful thought if public transportation moved. They don't, I don't think, in the world. I think I can assure you what. A senator says it isn't. Public transportation is like other transportation cost by society. The goal for the bus is that the fare of passengers pays about 40% of the cost of operating, but the cost has not been met. Actually, I think there's way too much shooting in that topic and I've compared numbers to other parts of Europe, and it's just quite high. But the other factor is now involved because of what. A senator said that it may be wise to keep free on bus. It's not quite the same if they're to compare themselves with being free, that's what it says. But it is also interesting to consider who they consider to be the main obstacle to their use of public transportation, and that is not worth it. The price is fourth, I think. It is primarily the frequency and how easy it is to move around. There, of course, is a direct connection. Of course, as the rate increases, the cost of operating is higher. That's what it says. Hv. A senator talks about free bus, and I know why. paritaprevir In her second speech, Anna Kolb Kolbrún Árnadóttir had also discussed this and referred them to Akureyri. In fact, a far smaller area than its capital area is in the street free of charge with its benefits and benefits. The use at some point increased, but the ministry is also not good. On weekends few trips are available, and there has usually been experience when offering something free of charge, because I think I and what. A senator can agree that there is nothing completely free in this world, it is always paid in some way, that the service is usually less. I think that's the way it went. A senator proposes, freedom on the bus, and thus teach residents how to use the bus, contributes to an increase in cost, and thus reduced use of the bus. You see, it's the frequency that counts. Right away. A senator is discussing the cost of public transport. [[The president calls.]] Similarly, it is based on how many people we get to use public transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u78	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I'm quite aware that the user fees, or what we call this today, are under only a little of the cost of the bus. Now I have to admit that I'm probably gonna have to read myself something better about this, but I think you can totally imagine the image that we have five or ten years on a bus, take the cost of us, teach people how to use public transportation, and then go to charge. Of course, at the same time, we would be saying that we are accepting the community cost of public transportation. I agree with what. A senator about how money comes from somewhere, they come from all the taxpayers because we agree that we need public transportation. Hence, we are ready to submerge them and to pass them on with our taxes. In fact, it has to do with just what I mentioned in a talk, that I would like to see that the same is seen in the country, that they were much more paid to the inhabitants of the country, and, of course, also to the people of the capital, they have to go ashore, so it would be in the same place. But I feel like we're taking a small chance on these enormous investments, not safer with the fact that the use of them is going to be much bigger than it is today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u79	A respectable president. I'm gonna start by correcting a little misunderstanding. It's just that public transportation is at most places, because there's something else that's not taken into account, and I'll explain to you what's wrong about this, because right now. A senator asked for numbers. And they exist. Here is the 102 - page report covering the stratospheric analysis of building up in the capital area, as has been done in recent years, 60% of new structures outside the current area, and 40% within it, similar development in stockways as has been, etc, and all the same until the year 2040. Then two other stage photos, B and C, are made by bus and by train. When these scenarios are compared to areas that are more dense than suburban structure, the B pathway, where there is less public transportation than it ends up in the urban line, has higher cost of operating up to 9 billion in 2015-52040. It's less than half a billion a year, much less, really. This is what explains why bus and public transportation pays itself - a total of 114.8 billion over the film A, and it's important, i.e. beyond the basic picture of building up, as we have in recent years and decades. That's what we get from building the root system too, just not as much as in scene A, but mostly from building up a city line: 114.8 billion, you do so well. Yes, it's a fairly old diagnosis, but it's very well done. If I send them. paritaprevir The report of Þórarinsson's Birgir, perhaps you should consult with her. But the analysis is very well done, and it does not alter these proportions, that is over ten times the difference. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Even if you can get a little more accurate numbers now, that does not change the proportions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u80	A respectable president. Thank you. There's no question about it. However, I would like to ask the senator in two things: They compared the benefits of traveling this way to the profit of continuing to build up a transport system, as it has been done. with relatively good street cars, building up the city's traffic flow so that automobiles can easily get their way? They took it in and they remember. A senator's distinction of all of this? Of course, they're big numbers. That's exactly right. What, though, is the basis for the profit? How will this come about? Like what? I have not read this 100 - page report he quotes here, but I think it's a bit of a importance, or at least it's interesting how and where this effort is made, the basis for the gain. There will be no improvement in doing nothing, but what difference is there between going the usual way and doing it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u81	A respectable president. This will be considered in a table on page 69 that discusses the time benefits, e.g. the cost of driving, the time spent in public transportation, and the time spent walking and riding. The environmental problem is not there, so it really adds up. Other analyses of this have been performed but not sufficiently quantifiable, not found. Figure A is a basic picture of what this would look like in 2040, based on continued structure, or as it is said here, by permission of the president: Thus, the film A is a basic film that continues on the same path as in recent decades, and the capital area developed in a comparable way to the present regional organization. In scene B growth is largely within the current community, about 85% of all new settlements, and about 15% outside, and more emphasis is placed on public transport. The bath I spoke of, 114.8 billion, is beyond the scene of A, i.e. The scene A generates specific numbers and benefits. B's image generates a degree of benefit, and that improvement is some 114 billion greater than the one on scene A. That's why I scratch my head so hard; the middle party is so huge against the city line, but I haven't even read the reports on this benefit analysis. I know there's another report, but I didn't find it on such short notice, where there's a little more in the analysis of if there was to be a more radical approach, how much it would cost, and the cost is extremely far greater. And the cost and cost of maintenance are much higher than from the city line of business. After all, the potential for transport with this reconstituted route of structure and public transport is considerably greater, the highest possible transport capacity in this structure is much higher than if only stocks are built up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u82	A respectable president. Now I'm gonna have to watch out for what. A senator cannot come back without speaking. There's a figure of time, a time gain. - No, he needs, I'm sorry. [[Up front.]] At any rate, it can be calculated, and, of course, it is possible to calculate anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u83	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u84	You may be able to see in the report the prerequisite factors behind the time benefits and all of them. Of course, it needs to be normal and proper, but anything is possible to calculate. What I'm also wondering is an advantage -- I didn't notice each other. A senator made it clear enough, but I'm just looking for information about it - if you've calculated some profit, as mentioned in the talk, but you're still on the bus today, and you're on the bus, and that makes it better, there'll be more cars, more cracks, maybe make special routes for buses, something like that... [[It's the city line.]] It's much more complicated. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u85	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u86	It's a rather loose outside call. But then there is the other, improving the roads, and paying for traffic. [[Up front.]] They also need to be taken into account. But the main reason why I'm personally opposed to the city line is that I just can't agree that there's so much work to be done with an open check on behalf of the state funds. And that's exactly what this project is because of what it is. A senator has no more than others have pointed to the final number. How much is this gonna cost? Is that 50 billion or 100 billion? 150 billion? They are trying to stop the government from carrying the entire cost of business. Is that clear enough? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u87	Mr. President. There is good reason, in my first talk about the two methods of transportation discussed here, to reflect on how difficult this has been. We no doubt recall what happened during the last assembly in a very unusual event that the Transport Committee decided simply to make a suggestion. Minister to transport plan and throw it away, put it in the paper holder or send it back at least In the Ministry, rejecting what the minister suggested, it was absolutely hopeless. Now again and again, the committee had to act, and there is reason to praise much of the work of the commission under the firm leadership of its chairman, along with many powerful people, good cheers. Committee members who have made significant changes in the transport programmes available, and many important adjustments are available. Nevertheless, there are still very important defects to the point that the panel cannot be approved as it appears today. You may want to start by looking at the suggestions yourself before making any adjustments and opinions on the various parts of the transport committee. But I'd like to review it, because I will in this first speech on the subject talk a lot about flying, having received a very misleading message from the government. You must hope that what is being done in this flight plan is better than previous expectations and declarations made, now at the latest in connection with the government's response to the Covid epidemic, where it was claimed to respond to the epidemic would be a major challenge at the national airports, especially in the Egls, and in some way in Akureyri. But then what happened during the day? There was very little money that had very little to say about some projects, and when we members of the Central Party proposed a change in motion to enable the government to fulfill what it had suggested, each member of the board made that recommendation. In other words, there was no serious answer to that statement, and the question is now: Should we hope that this is really true behind the reports of flying in this transport program, or should we just hope that it is not? Of course, that depends on what we look at. The plan says that the official body of Istavia will receive a very progressive role. I'm going to read a few lines, with the permission of a president: It is delayed that international flight operations will become a single system of responsibility for Istavia ohf. During the construction of international airports, it will be emphasized that they meet as best as well as the need for pilots to use their spare airports here and that the Lils State Airport will be in the first place. But it says: "It is delayed that a modest reserve of flights will be taken up for building up. " So here we have another price offered by this government, and it has become quite many and varied, the new fees and the taxes that the government intends to add to when a tax-queennching nation is made. However, in the chapter under which this is considered, income and contributions are made more clearly, says the president's permission: ▪ Istavia's service contract and the Department of Transport and the Ministry of Transport include payments on about two thirds of the cost of flying domestics. Other revenues, e.g. The cost of landings, fares, and other user fees to Istavia must depend on the costs the state does not pay. The government is not only here giving the ball the new reserve charge but it may have to raise other charges, landing costs, passenger bills, and other user fees so that Istavia can depend on the role of moving into this public community. The government seems to be very much concerned, as I have been doing here in a talk on another subject, to transfer authority from politicians and voters and into public societies. In this case at least does not bring with it, not to the point that the government is going to throw away what is expected of those who are dealing with the potato. A little down in the chapter says, on permission of a president: At Reykjavík, all dues are similar to those at Keflavour Airport, but costs at other airports have been much lower. The need for maintenance and implementation of airport manure and international flying systems has been estimated to be some 700 million. K. usually every year. But the cumulative need for the past few years as well as the cost of a new budget of a airport regulations would mean that over the next five years, there would be some 1,400 million donations. K. every year if the national infrastructure is properly implemented. In other words, now that the State is throwing it away into the official community, it provides an enormous increase in the cost of caring for the things that the State has done and is to care for. How should this cost be met? Yes, it seems to be found out by the union, and the expected to raise the cost to the employers and consumers, raising the cost of domestic flights. It's clear a little bit further down there, with the permission of a president: To meet the EEA standard requirements in Regulation No. 464/2007 in airports it is necessary to set up aerospace light on five runways at these airports. So here is the basic application: the search must be made to ensure funding for the project to be completed by the end of 2021. It simply says in the government transport program: A search of ways to find money is required in order to do what is required to meet the rules. The next chapter, entitled Runnning and Service, says, by permission of the president: This plan assumes that the same service at airports and landing sites is being planned. The service may be reduced at several airports if financial support cannot be ensured in order to meet the requirements of airport regulations. In other words, a search must be made for ways that are clearly not yet found to finance the maintenance of the present domestic flight. If they are not found, however, then the conclusion is that they limit their service and reduce flight. This is a transport plan. A little lower says, on permission of the president: ▪ Anticipation systems of the Akureyri Airport are in their years and are closely monitored for its effectiveness. The estimated cost of renewal is up to 1,000 million. K. and is not in a transport program. And he's not in a transport program. This is a major element simply released from the transport programme, 1,000 million. K. released. The estimated maintenance money between 2020 and 25224 is not sufficient for all airports in the national network. So it is clear that the maintenance of flights and landing sites will be minimal within this budget. A revision of international flight schemes, which include the use of air pollution, is under way. comments on their financing. Rather, it is a sad reading of the state of the international flight in this transport program, especially in the light of the declarations made by the government and the minister of the seminaries in the last year and years of efforts in those areas. This adds to a persistent question that has not yet been answered, even though governments have actually wondered about it: Does the government want more or less flights within the country? You see, it's a complete mystery. One factor describes the need to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases from flight, so people find a number of new fees to reduce the interest in flying, while at the same time, there is an awareness that people are interested in increasing domestic flights. It's all very dark, but when we read the section on airports and flying history services, we see that this is either a financial product, a transfer to a public community, or that it has to be reduced to service because humans cannot afford to meet demands. Then they talk about the Scottish way. Does the government know what the Scottish way is? Hv. paritaprevir You see, Red Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfóttir got in pretty good earlier. Hv. A senator may not always agree with her, and the senator pointed to the nature of the Scottish route in Scotland. After talking about the Scottish route here in Iceland, and the local community in many parts of the country, including the U.S.A. As a result, this Scottish route, and we at the General Assembly, most of whom I think, would be very positive in this regard, I have likely understood that we were talking about support for international international flights in general and that we view the international flight as public transportation that would be particularly sponsored by governments. So one felt that when a travel program with a Scottish route finally appeared, it must finally be explained how it would be implemented here, what in the Scottish route. But it's not. It's just continuing to throw out the vow '-off '-the-way, but it's, like, the coon. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenfelddddóttir pointed out earlier, very limited compared with what we need in Iceland. This route is intended in Scotland solely to strengthen the inhabitants of the most scattered and remote places. It's all there is, only a few small places in Scotland, where people can take advantage of this route or get the support, a set amount a year, that they can use in international flights. It won't take long to list it. These are residents of the island of Islam, or Il, as it is called in Icelandic. They're residents of the Western East, sometimes called the Western Islands. They are the people of Jura, the island of 196. These are the inhabitants of the Colossian Islands, 124, and so, as it has been observed, the inhabitants of the Orken Islands and the Holtland Islands, and indeed some residents in the province of Kathanesi, or Caithness as they have begun to call it in Scotland, which is quite north in Scotland; and so I am sure to count all of them, a few residents next to you, Southland, Sutherland. But why is it called the northmost province in Scotland, Southland? This is because it is, of course, south of us, south of the northern settlements that named it. In fact, from the South, a known caste, including an actor's family, is now known as an actor's family. Kiefer Kiefer and Donald Sutherland, but that has nothing to do with this. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I hope there is some answer to what the government provides regarding the Scottish route and the international flight in general. But there is no question that at the same time as they flaunt the fact that they are in action on an internal flight, the reading of the international flight will be as sad as it really is here. So I'm going to step off to the city area of Reykjavík, which, of course, is a major concern for all who consider international flights in Iceland with the most important transport resources available in the country. You hardly know where to begin. First, I'll give a witness. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson from earlier today She said something like that it was the only clear thing that would happen to Reykjavík's airport. Reykjavíkurburg has been working hard to get me to sign a contract for the city of Reykjavík that would allow him to stay in his place, at least in 2013. for a certain time. There should be a checkup to end all checks in the NYU airport position. I didn't see any reason to agree with it until I finally said that I would sign with the condition that plans for the closure of a so - called emergency train would not be removed and personal flight and teaching would not be removed. It was taken out of the deal. Then I signed it to save the emergency track. But what happened that day? The mayor got the Minister of the Interior to sign another agreement that went contrary to the agreement that had been signed 15 minutes earlier, in which the circuit of emergency was removed, with the consequences we now see. Still tighting to the airport and building up to it, and even to drive through it almost, at least through a hangar as we were supposed to do until it was discovered, hopefully in time, and the city is still trying to figure out what it's doing about it. The mayor's plans for the city's Reykjavík State Airport are quite clear, and it continues, now, at the latest, with an unpredicted agreement, where an agreement was signed that was on the table and incomprehensible that the government agreed on it with the city, is now explaining to the mayor at every opportunity that the decision was, in effect, to move the airport. Like what? paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson said earlier: All we can tell is that the airport is supposed to leave. I guess now they want to build an airport in Whalesun. I think I'll have to discuss it in a special talk. It is an amazing idea in many respects and has a long history. See, Reykjavík's airport is not just the mayor's issue in Reykjavík but all the people in the country. He is the partner of the people of the country, since the airport was handed over to the United States, and under it, when the military team left Reykjavík and no longer needed the airport that had been built there. But now the airport is being forced to sell land from him. There is yet another amazing deal that has been made with the city, but it may have to wait for the next talk, Mr. President, the contract where the government was selling land from the city's airport, and it seems that even more often the city is not going to fulfill its share. I'm just about to get started on the airport, and I'm going to discuss public transportation and city lines, and I haven't started on the roads yet, Mr. President, so I'm asking the President to sign me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I hope he respects me because I'm going to talk to him about a little bit of a road program, but he spoke here. He has, as it were, foretold that this will be discussed later, and members of his class have been discussing him repeatedly. I can feel it now that we are what we are. A senator and his members agree on many aspects of transportation; the focus of flights, road events, and the construction of transport timbers; and especially that in the capital area, construction was possible. It has been possible to get organization converted into the capital area, and traffic models have been able to make possible and receive light control on everything, repair the tracks, and so on. But now it is a way to fix it. I want to know what I'm talking about. A senator's problem is the way of the capital contract. The covenant is designed to break up a ten - year construction stop in the capital area. A ten - year construction stop has been breached, and it was achieved by making an agreement with the rural communities in the capital area and not just by disrupting the construction site, but by getting us communities to contribute to the subsidies of local infrastructure. Not many rural areas in Iceland are involved in paying for their own infrastructure, but that's in this agreement. So, what's the big problem with the capital contract, considering? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u89	Mr. President. I'm going to start by taking the bottom off with what. A senator that we agree, I think, on a number of transport issues, both in the capital area and in the country. And that's right. One senator says that after this so - called construction stop, this place has been a terrible place in the capital area. It was simply a decision to stop all major transport reforms for a decade against the fact that the State spent about a billion dollars on bus each year. Quite an amazing deal, one of the many amazing contracts the state has made with the city on transportation. But now that time has passed, it is time to act. The government does not have to pay the mayor's section some ransom price of 50, 60, 70 billion, in effect, in order to put money on the subjects that have waited for far too long. It is a project that is on the road to the most distant end of track in the capital area and therefore is under the state. And the state, finally free of the city's construction stop, is in a position to attack the capital area without having to pay the city a special ransom. I just don't understand how this government could have come to put money on the terms of paying off the Union's campaign in Reykjavík in order to put money in the structure that the State should take care of in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u90	A respectable president. I have to admit, now I don't understand why. A senator. What ransom is the Kingdom paying to pay for the projects responsible for? Since the road is to pay for the projects it is responsible for, expected, what is the ransom when the authorities and the road work here provides a plan for how they are going to carry out their responsibility? What ransom? Nowhere in these data I've seen are we talking about the operation of a city line. Hv. The members of the Central Party are deeply concerned about some of the city's chairman's lines of business. I just haven't seen anything in this opinion about the business of a city line, so I don't understand what ransom it is to pay the projects responsible for and the rural communities in the capital area are putting their money into this infrastructure responsible for.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u91	President. The ransom is called a city line. In any case, the potential and potential cost of urban management is clear that the projects will become enormously expensive. You have heard a plan come down from 50 to 100 billion, even 120 billion, even, but a comparable example from abroad shows that such plans are often completely out of control so that we do not know where that price will be. We do not know what a final ransom will be for the government to carry out any project that would have been planned many years ago if it had not been negotiated in Reykjavík. Well, it's certainly that's where the locals are funded. However, when we look at the overall tool package, the less important, the less likely it would be if it were a normal exchange for expenses compared to the assigned tasks.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. The speaker's speech, but to say that there was a lot that puzzled me in the case of the senator and many things that were somehow taken out of the context of the transport program as presented, but no comment was made on any of the opinions of the committee presented here, either the minor or the majority opinion. What caused me the most surprising was the discussion of the Scottish route. Then I just want to get a clear answer from the senator: Is he opposed to the acceptance of the Scottish way, which has been the main struggle of a great many people and rural population in a North-eastern district, where this is thought to be the means to ensure constant access to services, as do the people in the capital area? When we discuss that there are only certain places in Scotland that use this service, I know that it reaches 70,000 people there. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator knows how many flights, how many international routes in Scotland, are excluded from the possibility that passengers will be restored to a part of their flight. It's not that much time after I get to another matter in return.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u93	Mr. President. Thank you very much for an answer. I'm not surprised that much of the talk had puzzled me. I focused on reading from the government's transport contract, but I noted that there had been a great change in the committee and a great many of them. As I mentioned, I will discuss it here in a second talk, but I thought that it would be proper to lay the foundation by referring to the transport program as it appears. Then asked him why. A senator of particular interest in my position on the Scottish route. So I've been beginning to think that I'm in favor of the Scottish way if you share the same understanding and I'm referring to the Scottish route, i.e. to support national flights and to consider it an important part of public transport in Iceland. But the process has been completely out of the government's opinion that the Scottish way is. In Scotland, as I mentioned, there is only a matter of supporting people in certain areas but not of general support for transportation between important settlements in Scotland. Hv. A senator asked me if I knew how many different places were; I think it is much simpler to simply list the locations - yes, whatever distances are apart - which are in and which way to fly, and which places to go, to the population where the position is being aimed. [[I was talking about flying routes.]] [[Up front.]] It is the population of six different locations, including one. in these small islands of Colonsay with 1,24 inhabitants and Jura with 196 inhabitants. In all, there are 70,000 inhabitants in a land of millions who can take advantage of this way, inhabitants of all - known places.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u94	A respectable president. So it is clear that the man I thank for the counter is only willing to continue in public support of the ways that are already governmently fortified.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u95	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u96	The senator's words cannot be understood except for his wanting the airports at Eglish and Akureyri to be divorced. Then I would like to ask questions in words that were not only repeated in the reply earlier but also in the talk. What was the change in the transport program itself, now and in payment last year? In fact, I don't think that there were very few changes in the plan, both plan of action and the long-term plan, as it is now. However, work was added to the government's work, so the plan came back for this year's work. What changed?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u97	Mr. President. Hv. A senator has the right to turn his head completely in the face of what a speaker has claimed. I was just pointing out that the Scottish route as it is implemented in Scotland is that places like Akureyri and different Egyptian places would not fall under it. I was explaining that, of course, it was unacceptable in Iceland. Therefore, I would like to know, and would have thought natural that it appeared in the government transport program, how she sees the Scottish route, whether it will be implemented as it is in Scotland, where only residents of the most familiar places can use it, or whether the government is going to expand the Scottish route in Iceland in such a way that it applies to transport in general, international flight transport. So it must be, support of flights to larger places, such as Akureyri and Eglish status, but also to smaller places.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u98	Mr. President. That's an interesting discussion. I'm just gonna come in on the Scottish way. What a surprise it is, and what a surprise it is, now that we have discussed the Scottish route and many factors linked to it for three, four years! A high - school senator then gives a talk on the Scottish route and has not realized what it is all about. It centers on subsidies of airports at a fixed number of airports for citizens with a legal home in designated areas of the country. This is in order to equalize the bioavailability of the population of the country in Reykjavík and has been building there for more and less than 20 to 30 years. I would like to link it to a report by which this group is based, which I may have been chairman of. Jóna Árný Þórðardóttir, director of the East Bridge, and Ingveldur Sæmundsdóttir, the assistant of the transport minister, were with me in that group. The report, however, is the most about much of it. A senator has been discussing here, whether it is the Scottish route or the aeroplane system, the formation of the flying system, and all its components. After all the discussions with local authorities and members of Congress over the last few years, it's surprising that what this is all about is not clear. Then we can talk about what I talked about earlier today about spells that were put on the flight, lead service, fuel, and other items. There are some 4,400,500 million that could be released at the expense of domestic flight. It's only a short time here in return, but I would like to discuss the airport and the agreement from March 2013 on the sales of 10 acres [10 ha] of water and how. A senator who accepted as prime minister two months after that contract was concluded as prime minister at that time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u99	Mr. President. I must make an observation to that why. In fact, the delegates jump into the hall without apparently observing their counter - answer speech, even trying to get on a high horse without knowing what was presented in the talk. I was just describing in my speech the importance of the application of the Scottish route and the extent to which the government will do so. Then I simply use this opportunity and ask why. A senator, a specialist in the case, according to his own report, who will reach the Scottish route in Iceland? Will it reach to all the inhabitants of Akureyri, shall it reach to all the inhabitants of Eglish, and reach to all the inhabitants of the land; shall it reach to anyone in the capital area, to help them travel within the land, and to make use of the land? It would simply be most desirable to compromise these basic facts in a transport program. That's what I was pointing at. The expert may be able to explain all of this to us. What will the government do with the Scottish route? What will depend on the Scottish route, the inhabitants of what places, and what flights, to quote the previous enemy? What flights are under there? Hv. A senator may be able to answer that question, even though I would like to have his expertise, if so much, to have benefited and improved in the transport program.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u100	Madam President. It's completely out of the question. This has been determined, in many places it has been stated: 285 km away from Reykjavík and what legal home it is; these are residents living in areas such as the Garth Valley Airport; Ishafdal Airport; Gjörk; Akureyri; Húsavík; Curfjörður; Negot, Eglís, Eglís, Cape of the Hornfjordur and Vestra Islands; real where there is flying to internal airports. It's quite surprising that this is the discussion at this point when we've been discussing it for three, four years. This actually reminds me of something at the interview that was after the first financial bill at the end of March, where I heard and watched on the phone on the way north of the country. We were accepting the investment plan, which had the first financial bill. That's what it said. A senator that there was no funding for flights in Akureyri, when the contrary had been made in all this discussion and in all that evidence. I'm just asking, " Where are we talking about flying and international flights and other matters when there's no discussion? ' [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's nothing to study, no interest in researching things. It's just something put into the air of someone completely different from the rest of us. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u101	Mr. President. I'm simply talking about the transport plan. It describes uncertainty. It reveals what people want to see happen without design, and even in terms of basics, such as funding the basics of the international flights, the airports, as I did in a very small way by simply reading from the schedule itself. There are phrases such as searching for ways to do things and aim for the Scottish route without further reference, etc. I have no doubt about it. A senator wants to introduce the Scottish way he describes and wants to place the most capital value in domestic flights. I know why. A senator is a support officer of the domestic flight. However, the declarations that have come from the government regarding domestic flights have generally not been fulfilled. So when a road program shows up that it doesn't work to explain things, it's a lot more to open them up and leave unanswered questions, then you have to worry about it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u102	Madam President. It was a healthy conflict. I would like to state in the beginning that, obviously, things are nice and enjoyable in this transport program, and if that were so. We'll talk here about pads and planks that are supposed to reach four or five terms in advance. However, after I have listened to the discussion every once in a while today, I have come to realize that members of the council are inclined to discuss the plan a little from their friends, their district, even their hometown, and that in many respects it is understandable. But I think it's because we're just talking about basics that go far ahead and we're talking about interiors that matter so much to us, then we're going to have to learn to talk about things as much as we can. And many things have been that way. We agree that there is a great need for transportation, and our roads are far behind the transportation network offered by other controlled nations. To date, we have been spending similar amounts of money on roads, airports, and ports, and European countries are spending on their transport. In fact, they have not known and turned down, and they have actually built up the grid. The coin, in turn, starts to sustain things and to improve safety. But we are far behind them. So we need to find ways to improve, even though I say again that there are a lot of good things to do in transportation. This is a matter of security, and we know that there are too many accidents in Iceland, which are not only a matter of discomfort but also a tragedy for people, and most of all, an enormous economic cost that is many times more than an attack on road reforms and repairs. Of course, we need to find money to do so. Then there are the life - styles that are available to people all over the country to ensure that we get our products in place, build a job life so that people can attend the necessary services and make life - style available in the country. What I want and find it necessary to talk to you at the beginning is Iceland's speciality, which is absolutely complete. We often talk about Iceland as a rural country, and that is in some sense, but it is also very dense and even urban. These are 103,000 km2, but there are only 350,000 people and even one job area, 70,480% of the population living in the area from the White River to the White Year. It is densely populated in that sense. This trend, which is different from that of other places, except in Mongolia, Djibouti, Panama, and Kuwait, some such countries, will not survive themselves. At some point in the early 20th century, a political decision was made that, on account of the small population, we could build only one university, one large hospital, here would be a general assembly, and that cultural institutions would be built. In many respects, it was wise to offer high - quality services in a small country, but this required that the development of the population become much faster than we know elsewhere. We simply need to make this work out of the need for a great deal of building and repairing in the capital area and then give it to those who live and live there but who are able to attend the ministry here. If we're going to use the same model, we have to do it. Of course, if this was not settled, the other way would be to distribute the ministry here and there more than has been done. In other words, we need to go both ways. When this is run up here that only 17% funds go to transport in the capital area, it doesn't tell the whole story, because the roads from Eastern Europe, West, Southland, and here are essential for people to attend the services that have been built up in Reykjavík. I wanted to mention this at the outset because I will be most likely to talk about a project that lies ahead of me in the capital area that is very necessary. In terms of the charges mentioned in this program, in the opinion and then the bill that follows, I would like to say that such cooperation with private and state projects can, of course, be a good procedure, but I believe that in general, roads should be paid for as necessary as necessary through a joint fund of citizens. Some projects, however, can fit in well, as mentioned here. For example, when an alternative route is passed by the currency, and the way is reduced to a significant decrease in distances, which is directly climate outside the conveniences it brings. I'm sorry, though, I can't see that all these routes that have been mentioned, these six routes, actually pass those conditions, and that's why I have my doubts that they should all be in there, even though I understand the thought behind it. Then, in a memo written by both Icelandic car owners, the Roadmaker, and good if not the Ministry of finance itself, it will always be more practical for the State to do this in a conventional way than to go this way. You ask yourself, " Is it a simple missionary but not an interest that is for my people's good? ' This also focuses on, as you try to get money on increasing projects, that you need to start thinking about future driving fees, already disappearing from oil and fuel taxes. I don't know which way to go. Of course, I have thought that the simplest amount was spent on a mile [ km] before use because it is also pollution, although it is not a direct oil charge. It takes building the infrastructure, and building the infrastructure is polluting. Prescients, but I who know the technology better, have pointed to ways like GPS, where people can be controlled in times of stress and thus work environmentally. But the main thing I feel is that this should have been in the past, even before a travel program was agreed on, and we could have concluded that. Since we have greatly neglected it in recent years, even in crazy times of living over the past few years, going into infrastructure, and having allowed the road system and transportation to submerge, we must encourage more ambition. Not to mention that our major project in the coming years, even decades, has to simply detract from mankind's inexhaustible efforts on earth and can play a prominent role in using efficient, reasonable means of transportation. Therefore, in the first speech at least, I would like to discuss the subject and point out what public transportation can play a major role in it. Then I'm talking about public transportation in urban areas, especially here where the masa lives, but also about focusing on public transportation all over the country. So we need to speed up the city line because it is the key to the long - term success of urban development in the capital. It saves a very massive means of transportation that does not serve its purpose and spends enormous amounts of money. It is simply a prerequisite for Iceland's ability to live up to its climate goals. It's so simple. It's got so much of the nation here that you can get the most results. In this regard, countless examples show that economical transport supports structure and prevents climate pollution. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson took an outstanding example of how large the savings are from the structure, despite the high cost of building. In 2008 it was the first year of human history that estimated as many people lived in rural areas and predict that by 2050, 70% of the world's population will live in a city. Already, only about 65% of Iceland's inhabitants live in the capital area and probably about 80% of all the population in some kind of urban population. So we are way ahead of this trend. During the 20th century, the vast migration from rural and urban areas resulted in the development of most cities in recent decades in an unsatisfactory and unsatisfactory way. The car has been designed for our time, our private car, which is not even an old invention, on the basis of which all urbanisation has occurred. We have built this classic American model of the car city, which is based on grouping and separation, characterized by the gills, by expensive infrastructures, where public transportation is difficult to build, where the typical resident lives in one place, works in another place far away, shops at the third place, goes out to have fun at the fourth, and then goes to a race during the evening of the fifth. All of this must be connected with all kinds of spaghetti and overgrown monuments. It is an incredible waste, and more and more nations are beginning to realize and unwind. We need to do the same. If the cities continue to grow, so will our city, on these grounds, they are becoming self-sustained all the time. And because climates are going to be a major factor for future generations, we just have to do something about it. We can win some victories with a targeted and ambitious program of energy exchange, but that doesn't change the fact that the only car has another quality that's moving, so it's stretching on everything. Even if we all drive on electricity, we'll be able to build very unsuspectable structures. That's why public transportation is a complete key to our achieving some results. Our biggest opportunity in climate is in the reasonable structure of urban areas. We know that this development will continue to some extent. We need to build a strong core beyond this, in Akureyri, east and west. But urban development is the driving force for economic growth for most Western countries, and there is no evidence that nothing is changing. Therefore, it is very important that this happens in a practical way. Strong cities are far beyond the edge of the city, far off into rural areas, and are also essential for the development of flourishing human life in the rural area. But we always have to be aware of that, especially because of Iceland's special status, that we need to build roads and air travel so that people can come here and take advantage of the necessary services here. It's not complicated. We just have to build a few things, we have to build smaller ones, and we need to connect this with environmental transport. I think the best way to get it is, so I'll tell you this one more time, the ambitious structure of public transport in the capital area. It's been called a city line. It's not just capital interests, it's all the interests of the people of the country. Think of how much waste it takes to travel between meetings, travel between places. This is not only a matter of well - being but also a question of climate matters and, especially, a matter of increasing production. This is especially true of practical calculations. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson spoke earlier. However, in a transport program, we cannot get everything we want. We need to work together to do this because it takes a very long time. But we should be able to deal with some major challenges that may arise in different viewpoints. I reiterate what I said: Transport is both a matter of human rights and of quality of life. Hence, we need to be much more ambitious when it comes to the whole country. I haven't established the necessary structure like the flight and the domestic flight. Of course, I am glad that it is finally to take action in northern, Akureyri, and in the region of Eglish. It is a joy to finally receive some kind of light into the mainland and not to be afraid of isolation even for weeks without being able to make it. It matters. I think it's important that we study a transport plan based on climate targets and discuss it at the council and then on the committee. The government has made it in a government contract to clear climate goals. It seems to me in this transport program that this is not being done, and that is, of course, shocking because there is to be one of the biggest mails in that subject. The joy is that it is not burdensome. Rather, it directly promotes a better, fun, and pleasant existence. It brings us back to build up, to the European towns, and to pay with mixed settlements where we are closer to one another. It's the pictures we show our family when we come from abroad. These are the places we visit, not the Latin cities that actually build on the basis of the car. So I think we have a rather joyful job to do if we do this out of decent ambition. I may then attend the second talk and discuss some outstanding projects, which, of course, are not necessary but necessary. We can debate their priorities, but with a measure of courage and boldness, we should be able to go ahead for the next 15 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u103	Madam President. There are several points that appeared in another fine talk. paritaprevir The Einarsson that I wanted to go on a little bit. The first thing that cut me off a little bit, but maybe I don't necessarily have a better suggestion already. A senator mentioned a mile [ km] fee, perhaps a way to finance road projects when fuel costs become useless, which will hopefully be in the near future or when people stop using gasoline. There I am worried about it, because people are always trying to cut themselves short, and they have to be some kind of surveillance on this, that they could become some kind of personal protection problem around them, and personal protection is a general point that will always be more important in transport discussions, especially when they are putting up more and more surveillance cameras and other things to try to monitor the use of people on roads. In fact, it means that we have a network, except those that monitor people's movements. It'd be nice to hear what you're thinking. It's for a senator. Then there's another thing I'd like to ask about, because that's why. A senator spoke of the beauty of changing our ways, i.e. Either way. A senator has examined some of these knowledgeable ideas about the so - called microspheres, i.e. This running bike and bicycle rent and the rest of the city, whether he can see any improvement in the way we are missing out on the future. Now I want to look into his knowledge as an architect. Now the country is bigger than Reykjavík, and the bikes do not reach anywhere, but it is to my credit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u104	Madam President. Yes, first only at this price. I'm completely aware of the problem of personal protection, but I don't know how to figure it. I know it's important to watch it. What I mentioned, of course, was that the cost of a mile was at least. The same kind of price we have today, i.e. that you will pay them at least before use. True, cars may be spending a lot of money, so this may not be quite the same. I trust the council to find ways to pay and raise money for road projects at least not to outweigh the weakest groups. However, I took seriously these indications of personal protection, and I noticed that this was mentioned in the minority list. Friðriksson Katrín's wife, who I read earlier. It's about scarcity that I think it's just a road to transport that's just going to grow. If you look at the books of the world's most advanced planning specialists, all working on the same thing, winding down the American City, then there's only one thing they say is the most important thing, and it's ◯walkability, i.e. so that, under it, these tiny instruments fall that can go shorter distances. But for that, we need to build less, to build closer to one another, and that brings my attention to the greater share loans. Department of Social Affairs just assumed that new apartments would be expected in the suburbs and distributed from the city. I think it's the wrong course. I think that's exactly what we're supposed to give people the opportunity to live closer to one another.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u105	Madam President. No one may be surprised that I wholeheartedly agree with this diagnosis. paritaprevir Logi, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Einarsson. This is the focus of Jane Jacobs and others'ideas about how cities are ecstatic and where it is good to live and all. Still, this conflict is still there, and you hear from many that they feel that the goal of building the city here in Reykjavík is somehow wrong. I don't agree with that. This tension must have come about because of something; some feel that a suburb is just for some reason better. I've never understood a suburb myself, but how did we respond to those views? I've had a bit of trouble with it myself because when I look at a suburb, it combines all the major city center and all the big bad farms but takes nothing of the good that comes from being in the countryside and none of the good things that come from being in the middle of a city. Still people, e.g. Here in Reykjavík, and more and more, in the larger towns of the country, I'll take Akureyri and Egls, for example, still moving to the suburbs. People seem to like it, at least some. It is a life - style that will not disappear overnight, and where do we put down some sort of balance between us?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u106	Madam President. Right away. A senator speaks of the Warhol, but it seems impossible to build the city inside nature because it would be a city to build in Central Park. It must always be that people must have a choice, and there is nothing wrong with having people spread to some extent. Some want to live in buildings along with nature, and others want to live in many parts of the earth. But I think it's important that the suburban isn't the norm, and people are at least. Don't let them live there if they don't want to. I have a feeling that very many who live there prefer to live tighter, but there may be no other option for the price that people can handle. That's important. I also point out that in many parts of the U.S., where the situation is the worst and the suburbs have been the most terrible, the poor people will drop there and push out and wide. In many places, the cost of a car is at the top of the household expenses. The question, then, is, What is the good conclusion? We should always respect people's choices. But I think we're gonna do what. A senator would agree that not always choosing to live in these places but, rather, may quickly be allowed to head off, perhaps less expensive, weights that contribute to an exuberance. And finally, it is this remarkable quality of the car, which too few people talk about, which is the mobility that makes it possible for us to act as unreasonable as we do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u107	Madam President. It may be difficult to talk in agreement about this road program without ending up having a bit of humor. I'm going to try to limit the dependence on what's to be serious, but the joke could be something more. If you're looking at the big picture, I'm talking about both the shortest time and the longer time schedule, basically over four different types of transportation. There are roadways for cars, airports for airplanes, harbors for ships, and then somewhere in a word, " bicycle," but maybe not very detailed. Each of these categories has three different options. The first option is progress. The second option is resolution, and the third option is a relapse. I think it's fair to say that there's something forward, though limited, progress in cycle path. There's some road progress, there's some sort of collapse in ports, and there's a return to airports. I'm gonna try to go over this a little bit, but let's just push the bike path aside. I think it's good to start with the roads. The official estimate is that it is about 400 billion dollars. Collect the country's road maintenance needs. This is in addition to all the projects that have been falling apart for years and even decades. This is in addition to plans that people have made with good intentions and that they have never made. This is really what happens when people decide not to carry on. It is fair to say that with this transport plan it is working up a little, a little. Not to be given more in, especially in view of the fact that we've seen a pandemic that has resulted in an economic breakdown of magnitude that we really don't know yet, is perhaps some kind of thing - I don't even know what to call it. At any rate, this is not far from farsighted by any degree worth talking about. There are plenty of places where we could spit in our hands. It is classic passisism to say that when there is a poor pace in the economy, whatever the cause, more should be put on public projects. These are not even very complex studies. You would have thought that the response to a pandemic is just looking at a transport program as one of the possible ways to do better, especially when we are talking about 400 billion dollars. leaning into structure. There is, of course, something about that building, and some of it is in the country and something in the capital. It may be nice to mention one of those positive things because I don't just want to be the bad guy, I want to say some positive things too. A positive conclusion is that a city line is built. We know exactly, on the contrary, a rather silly statement of the sledgehammer. The members of the Central Party, that it's not some mystery size. We know that the cost of operating will be 9 billion over a certain period of time, it happens somewhere, and we know that the recovery is 114.8 billion at the same time, I think I'm handling the numbers correctly. It is a huge gap, and thus it cannot see the high cost of building such a large system. It is positive that this is being met, of course, too little, far too late. But it's only been the situation in the politics of this country for a long time that way too little, far too late, it's been what people are offered. The time will come when a person may have to mock a little bit, that is, a matter of priorities. Every time someone says we have to do something, and we have to spit in our hands and build up for the future, someone will come up and say, "Yes, that's right, but we have to prioritise our priorities. " There is no conflict, for we need to set priorities. But why would it be that we always have to set priorities for the things most suitable for politicians in certain provinces? Instead of looking at the big picture, calculating how much things cost, where the greatest improvement is, considering the possibilities of achieving a better overall picture instead of throwing down a tunnel somewhere, where it may not have been a huge demand for them, because it looks good for someone. I'm not criticizing any specific tunnels now, even though I can see the look. No. In general, my opinion on a tunnel is that we should try to win it over and over and at a much faster pace. This is exactly an example of a measure of human activity that results in fine success. We have to do this whole thing. When I read through this transport program, it's not my experience that this is the conclusion that comes from an incredibly profound analysis of data. I kind of think it looks more like a list of people who might have more political authority than time to look at the data. In other contexts, it is possible to talk about the evidence. I want to talk about flying. It's a group of paintings that's kind of dear to me. The good news is that it is being introduced a so-called EGNOOS system, which is designed to make airplanes easier to land, although psychics are bad and stuff like that. That's the best part. True, this was spoken of before a crash, and it was even put on an ice - cream minister after the collapse. When you read a transport program, it's a system in preparation, but if you talk to the European Space Agency, they haven't heard anything from us. I don't know exactly what that's all about. Maybe I'm asking the wrong people in that house, but there's something we must be able to say more about this particular project than five lines of transportation. It's, for example. It is known that the trails of satellites behind this system will reach only a limited extent across Iceland. That's a lot of work to change. At the same time, Iceland has extremely limited radar equipment. This transport program describes the use of the state-of-the-art radar systems of the Akureyri Airport. Yes, it is. It takes 1,000 million to renew it, but it is not in a transport program. You ask, " How long do these equipment need to be in intensive care because we need to be maintained before someone finds out that it might be a good idea to put it in a transport program? ' What Is Needed? An accident that could be avoided, or do we need to watch an accident? I don't know. At least I'd like it to be one of those things that was fixed. Interestingly, the transport program refers to 13 airports belonging to the so - called base of flight. It's an interesting fact that there are 13 in view of the fact that if you look at Iceland's flying manual, known as the AIP, there are 14 others, not 13. It's kind of more interesting when you look at the base of roads. In the base network of the road according to this schedule, there are some factors that can be considered as follows: listed up the road--now I've lost this, I'm gonna let myself find this because I really think it's funny. It's silly to lose this, but it's a pretty long paper, and even two because you can't have one useless 15-year plan, but you'll have to have two plans. In the base of the road road, the 749 road is listed. It's the airport route in the sheep's jar. But as you look at the list of airports on the other side of the grid and a flight selection in the flying manual, the airport at a sheephouse is off. What are we doing on the road to the airport at a sheep's jar in a shallow net if we don't have the airport on a sheep station on the base of the airport? It's a little strange, isn't it? I just don't get it. In addition, in addition to 14 airports in Iceland, Istavia and 13, we have 40 landing sites, if you look at chapter AAD 4 in the flying manual. The difference is mainly that there is no plan for these landing sites, but they play a natural key role for their communities, both for personal flight and in some case, what might be called a tourist-like view flight. Most of these 40 landing sites are owned by the State and are to be maintained by Istavia. In fact, there was something about them being taken into foster care because otherwise they would not be cared for. I would, for example. Do not necessarily recommend using some of these runways. The airport at Rifi, for example. had grown up, and quite a lot of loose miles there, even though it is registered as a tarnished airport, that is, a year ago. The maintenance is done in some ways, and I know it's just another example of a subsidence project in the state. Besides this, it seems very strange how the arrangements for the transportation department and the financial administration between the Department of Transport and Istavia are handled. It would be natural to look at it in the big context. However, we do not do so when one of the 14 airports and another 40 landing sites is needed because we are merely looking out for maintenance and not expecting these to be transports for the nation. This means we can expect a return to Iceland in the next 15 years. You will have to read only the status of a global case. Global flights are not exactly a good year. There's a problem related to flying's way too expensive. There are too many accidents, of course, that are being tried to work on in part by improving runways and by improving airports. But the reason is also that it is expensive. One way to make this less expensive, and if you do a small survey, you can see that a few of the companies are looking into that issue right now, the electricalization of the flight is electronic. There the Icelanders could be on the front if we wanted to. But it doesn't seem to be, whether it's the lack of will or capital. It is interesting, though, that as we look at the types of machines that are developing in this sector that are now being developed, all thought to shorten the time between towns that are relatively close to one another. I can imagine that in the future, within the next 15 years, transportation will be made by flight, for example. Icefjords and Bilddals, or it's between the Sea of Sheep and Akureyri, or that's why the Western Islands and Reflects, more practical if we start to behave in that way. They are not practical today because the cost is too high, the complex level is too high, etc., and in part because of the lack of adequate maintenance. But there is much work to do if we start watching this in the big context. Remember, Iceland is one of the few Europeans without train transport. I'm not quite seeing it change. To a considerable extent, self - carrying vehicles will fill in. However, there are two ways trains can do something that is desirable: One is to carry a number of people in a more efficient way than cars and the other is to move rapidly. Cars won't go so fast, maybe something faster when the whole highways are self-injured, but the flight will always be a better option for people here in the north when you see that railroads have to grow out and contract themselves in ice and cold, so that snow does not talk about how well trains and other things work. As a nation, we have - 100 years since flight in Iceland, 101 actually this year - have been very early on for a very long time. But we are always wasting our opportunities by not keeping our minds fixed on the interior, by not taking advantage of our opportunities, as we do now, and in part by not showing understanding. I'm going to call it a good one, this little summary. I don't know if I've offered convincing enough reasons for my case. I see some people have asked for an answer, so hopefully they can be corrected. But the core of my criticism of the transport program is that it's only making up long tails in the road system, we're falling back in the air system. It's only in the waterfront that we seem to be standing in place. True, I have to admit that I'm saying this almost exclusively because I don't have a very deep knowledge of ports, so maybe we're falling behind too. I don't know. You're just getting better, so you end something positive, and hopefully they're gonna get better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u108	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a very nice and well-traveled tour, well-inhabited speech. I only stopped that he listed it in a way that included certain factors that were the same as before. It would be an improvement in some places and a return in others. He specifically mentioned that he did not want to be negative, but this may be his role, it must be acknowledged, the man sits in a position of government. I made a special decision after the conversation on the airport. There are many interesting things there, ranging from 13 to 14. But if I understood a speech, I would. A senator may be one of the most critical cases in this regard. I'm interested in hearing a little more and more from the senator on the other hand, what disturbs him in that context and, perhaps, the big question that is important in political context, whatever it is. A senator sees that we can do better there, considering the cards we have today and in the long run. Of course, transportation is always such that wherever it is taken, we must look to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u109	Madam President. Yeah, I'm starting with the negative. I know that maybe it's the government body of Congress to criticize. I try to be critical, but I try to be reasonable, making sure that people don't experience my words as an unfair attack because I'm actually trying to make important points. Transport is just one group of many people who can take care of themselves forever. We know that. Still, it is true that more and more is needed in this case because of the length of recovery from obvious shortcomings. But as far as the flight goes, I think that the first step, and maybe the largest, would be to fix that error, and I believe it is an error, not to have 40 landing sites and one airport inside a transport program, though only if it existed but to accept their existence so that they could be thought of in a larger context for a longer time. This is only expected to be maintained on two extraterrestrial circuits over the next few years, and it's in 2024, if I don't forget. First of all, it is extremely strange that a transport program is expected to maintain a course that the same strategy does not admit to exist, but the other is that it will be so difficult to think about Iceland's transport network in general if it is not clearly understood. First and maybe the biggest thing I'd like to fix is just up the list. Then we came along to talk about offering some money, e.g. to malbig various paths.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u110	Thank you. A senator is eager to know the answer. It is fascinating to hear that such a simple thing, such as explaining to the masses, is a dramatic political factor and is at the same time associated with social consequences. But then I'll take the ball away from him. A senator, because he brings up what might be done from this correction by continuing with further structure in this regard, I want him to complete that argument and go to the depth of what the next steps would be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u111	Madam President. I don't know exactly what your priorities are in that subject, and I'm not gonna pretend I have all the answers. But I want, for example. Pointing to the malbian wormarvalla, it may be only once every five to ten years. They already have a much higher usability index. Then I think of the airport at the Rhools as an example of a course that might do quite well with a slight cut - off layer. But then there may be other things, and on one of the larger sides there would be improvements to add the PAPI lights for example, or even the track lights that are on Hellu, which work very well, or at Selephoss, they could be turned on after the incident. In fact, Selphoss and Hellu are possible. But there are other places where it can't be done. I can see that I'm past my appointment even though the President gave me two minutes. But there are a lot of these things that would help a lot with flight security and other things.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u112	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for a very interesting talk on a transport plan. Hv. A senator came into various points that I have just considered to mention afterward, so it's nice to hear how much we agree on. I also wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to discuss other topics, as well. A senator, who is a pilot, spoke a lot about funerals at airports and things about them. It woke up, for example. I have memories of my e-mail flight back in the day where I'm being raised on Iceland. From there was a regular flight to the South Valley, Florence, and Thyatira, simply because it was impossible to land. In addition, there is a flight from Akureyri to Siglust and Olafurland, where it was simply not possible to travel the land route at that time. A lot of landing sites that weren't there. In his speech, a senator spoke about the exact old post office. What I wanted to ask you. A senator about this, and what I didn't understand quite enough when I listened to a talk. A senator, in effect, did what it would do to keep all those landing sites open today. The number has been gradually reduced, including the Holti, In Anniversar, where the runway was simply covered with little value. I wanted to think about it, I'm a little curious about the answer: What good is it to keep these landing sites open? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u113	Madam President. Yes, there may be three, and the first I mentioned only in my speech, it seems, at all, there are quite interesting things to be happening in the development of flights in the coming years and decades that at the same time might open up to the fact that these landing sites are far more useful to communities than they are today. This may be one reason for the future to sustain them rather than for modern reasons. The other two reasons are today, on the one hand, approximately 6,000 people, or they've had a flight rights in Iceland, I can't quite remember the numbers, but there are quite a lot in Iceland that's flying, both as airlines and as passengers and as well as as a growing group. If these people fly across the country and land in an engine failure or any other trouble, they just have to land on the nearest airport. Sometimes it's not even available, and then there's a landing on a highway or just anywhere. Just as a flight security factor, it is important for people who are traveling around, even between larger airports, because of entertainment or work, or whatever it is. The other thing is, when you watch communities like that. Stykisholm, or Cape of the Hornfjord, which is, of course, the bigger airport, or anywhere, e.g. We're putting a lot of money into trying to maintain and strengthen these settlements, and this is one of the things that can be used if we start applying them properly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But we haven't been doing that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u114	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's heartfelt appreciation for the answer, which in many respects was very illuminating. I would like to ask, though, "If anything. " A senator could have the whole world - or at least some money. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress]] I'd decide what would happen. A senator's priorities for the structure of the flights? Then I wanted to come back to the electricization of the plane, where I agree with what it is. A senator, for example, I've proposed a matter of Congress, along with the Group of Congress, for the electricalization of the flight. Isn't that right, like a what? A candidate in his speech, the future involves taking back the mail flight because by electronization it becomes cheaper to fly? The aircraft will certainly be smaller, at least at first, but there are tremendous opportunities not always to fly to Reykjavík to move around. [[The president calls.]] I'd be, for example. ... fora flight betweenUrsafjörður and Akureyri. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u115	Madam President. I don't know if you can answer all that well, but one thing I forgot earlier, which is actually even the biggest thing. It's a medical flight. The airport at Amholtsmel was e.g. Used for the sheep's rescue chopper last year, I think, or I'll meet you in the morning. How would I establish priorities? I'd say, "Let's just look at it from the point of view, from the needs of the pilots and the flights, and from where we can make employment opportunities. " Mail flights are something to look at, and I think that drawings will come in, but not only, and other species may also exist. I could imagine not to pass long before the container transport with the lamps becomes more realistic and they may need runways. I don't know what more I can get in with time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u116	Madam President. Because I know why. The senator being quite open and well-minded, I now assume that we agree very much on many points he discussed. Still, I want to talk about priorities. It only struck me when he spoke of a tunnel and a strange setting of priorities. I entered into my speech that, of course, political decisions are controlled, since the fast - approaching development in Iceland will be the rapid result. And we certainly agree that our greatest project, based on the people living here in the capital area and climate goals, is to attack a fast and good building on the city line. But does the senator not agree that there are other viewpoints regarding transport, security, culture, and human rights, which can even justify good roads and good transport between the smallest of us who live more in circles?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u117	Madam President. I totally agree with this. I think that by referring to a tunnel earlier, I may have been turning my attention away from the point I was trying to come along, of course, that the state is responsible to ensure good transportation across the country. But my criticism was that for a very long time, we have seen that projects are set before priorities set for clean political reasons because someone wanted to, for example. Get back to the council after the next election, so you're just talking straight. Sometimes the reason is only colder than that. Maybe it's because I'm not necessarily talking about this administrative part - I don't think there's something wrong with a particular government that may be made up of other categories. Obviously, it's totally ◯ythematic, surely a case, isn't it? But it can make it a whole community, making you choose from randomities, e.g. Reykjavíkurburg, sit back for 20 years for political reasons. That's what I'm not comfortable with. I view all the citizens of the country as entitled to good transportation, which means that the government should use it in a reasonable way toward all of them. Sometimes it means the expense of a small group of soils. Sometimes this means improvement in the number of transports in the large community that are considerably less expensive compared to the appeal. [[The president calls.]] But all of this matters and must not be totally political at one time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u118	Madam President. Hv. A senator had quite a pleasant and novel approach to flight, and I'm gonna stay there. Now I may not have followed the current views of my hometown, Akureyri, in my attitude toward airport affairs. I have considered it an important community project that we accept a view of the benefits, see the benefits, and really respect the wishes of Reykjavíkurburg to use the area for better settlements but also to find benefits for the country's settlements. That's what I'm talking about. A senator doesn't agree with me, for he is an expert on linking, that it would be in many ways better for the region and the distribution of tourists to the country if we could build an airport only outside the city of Reykjavík? [[The president calls.]] Maybe people fly right there, and they could move on without having to take any of these windways between flights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u119	Madam President. In fact, I'm just gonna have to be a little embarrassed. I can't believe I've been able to give a talk on a road program without going through Reykjavík. But the answer is obviously yes. [[We all make mistakes.]] We all make mistakes. You're absolutely right. The fact is, this is a matter we really need to find a solution. I'm telling both my lazy, lazy friends in 101 as well as my flight friends that we need to stop allowing this to be a political issue and solve. It's completely annoying how we have somehow created the political culture in Iceland that problems can still be delayed for decades. There's a case we need to figure out. It must work for the region and must work for the capital. It needs to work for all the users of airports and all users of other transports. I can't imagine how this is allowed to be a political debate instead of a solution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u120	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking you for a particularly interesting and good discussion about this subject here tonight. This is a fundamental interest in the people of all nations, and it is satisfying to see that we take exactly a step back and go into the basics of interest and what is underneath in a broader and larger context. In the discussion, you often note just this fundamental interest in the entire nation, how often it goes up, how close it is to everyone to the compartment exchange of the discussion, in terms of national and national capitals. I think we could all do better, because in the end, both parties or groups have the same value in themselves. In recession times, as we now see, there are in itself an ideal situation for infrastructure. We've talked about it, and in this respect I agree with the viewpoints attributed to the greater part of the matter, that this time and situation and the situation must require that we go with even greater force than has previously been planned in the infrastructure. I also feel that I agree with the fine discussion that has been here tonight, that we just rip out of earlier footsteps and watch the picture again. In fact, I believe that it may even be possible to say in a way that it is directly related to the government under circumstances like this to the development of infrastructure, to take practical action, taking the lead in investing and creating jobs. The shock we experienced, and the significant unemployment that has become experienced today must call for government officials to use their financial resources - there is indeed room - and prevents people from getting stuck in unemployment. So here, there's nothing we can do about it. At the present time, the government has presented a special investment campaign with the goal of working against the economic recession by doing better in this category. That's fine. Consolation No. 28/150 was approved at the General Parliament, and among the focus of the investment campaign, transport and other initiatives must be said to be especially suitable for transport projects such as this and into infrastructure. Transporting has resulted in a wide variety of them and can spread throughout the country. Of course, it is a significant point, but it is clear that the unemployment, if you watch the matter with them glasses, is now especially a serious reality outside the capital area. The heavy impact the tourism suffered is not least a blow to the region. Therefore, it is important for me to manage projects as needed, but at the same time, according to our situation or where the consequences have been most severe following Covid-19 but, of course, we must always look forward to projects that are nationally practical and profitable. As for smaller infrastructure projects, I agree that the option is shorter for preparation compared to larger projects. It's a good idea at a time like this. There are projects that we would like to take on and take, just because of the situation, that are implementing national initiatives, taking on improved road strength, more tire and footpaths, and even riding. I think there's something that needs to be drawn with them glasses, and then I'm referring back to what the situation is today, and I'm afraid what the situation will be for the next few months and possibly a loss. I wanted to talk specifically about the capital city and transportation there, the so - called transportation Convention. The government and six rural communities in the capital area, Garðar, Hafnarfjörður, Kópavogur, Mosfellstown, Reykjavík, and Seltananes have made an agreement for planning and funding the development of transport and public transportation in the capital area to the next 15 years. There's a big deal to be expected, and I'd like to say, timely, we'd do the interiors of all the transports in the capital area. We're looking at the footways and, of course, the city line and other bus routes, walk-and-wheel trails, as well as the traffic jam. Of course, it's as if I'm saying something important, important, and at the same time, because I think it's the experience of many in the capital area that, whatever the reason, it seems like it's all been forgotten. The purpose of the transport covenant includes: In a hurry to take action in the capital area, we face a daily need. You can't wait much longer. I believe, as part of the Committee's Committee, that it is important to establish as early as possible a fixed framework of projects covered by this treaty. In the late autumn, the restoration rejoices that the condition of transportation signed on the part of the state and the six rural communities have become part of a long-term policy policy strategy for transport. We believe that this is a particularly positive focus on the city line, which is the cooperation of all rural society in the capital area. When you look at the capital and its interests, and the need for them, it is of course obvious that this procedure is necessary for the transport system of the region to be able to handle more and more traffic and to increase the number of private cars. The focus, then, is that increasing the emphasis on public transportation is simply a prerequisite for us to achieve our goals in climate change. The number of private cars and the transport system is also to serve our interests in terms of the results and objectives of the climate. In view of this, I feel that even more weight could have been put on building timbers for the electricalization of cars with the goal of being guided. A member of the Committee is a part of the opinion of the greater part, but I give specific warnings there, of course, and I take my heart to the viewpoints that are traced there. I think, for example. that also needs to be made aware that when we talk about priorities in the transport process, it must be useful to improve the appearance of local representatives, that by taking the lead in developing them better and increasing the way they feel, we can better achieve their views. I believe that in general there is a good and successful way to make decisions that involve the rural communities themselves as close as possible to them. I felt, as I was looking at the committee today and tonight, positive to see and experience that it appears that there has been an excellent cohesion within the environment and transport committee on the objectives and priorities for these two periods, 2020/20-2024 and 2020234. Of course, I think it's always a joy to be happy when it is, but not least in this sort of case, in which there is a fundamental interest in the people of all nations, in a language that is just so easy to split, in my sole opinion, virtually in the states. I think it's a positive thing, and the group of paintings as a whole, that it seems that good work resulted in an excellent solidarity on the committee. Of course, as mentioned in the opinion of the road system, the largest individual property in the state is, and the State has a heavy responsibility to maintain it and to protect it from previous investments as well as to show ambition by further building. That's where I might feel that we're back in a trail that has something to do with the situation we're wrestling with today. As we look at increasing projects that result in increased service and maintenance, we must expect costs to be taken into account and that we will not only deal with the problems that have certainly been raised in recent years, and we are of course because we are working to improve the road system and transport as fast as we can. The situation today must also be taken into account, with the view of practicality, climate goals, equality, and, above all, security. It may be the red thread in what I'm pointing to and would like to conduct in this discussion tonight, underlining the importance of these historical economic conditions, the government must exercise power and courage in investments, and this field is simply ideal for it. There is a gathering of needs and adequate work to be done. Then, at the same time, it is my political position that the space we live in government affairs should be used to trap the blow we face, e.g. by making more investments, both increasing and speeding them up so that the infrastructure will be directly involved in this economic restoration. All in all, we find that the gathering of our transport needs is about 400 billion. Transport plans are properly based on the current financial programme, but because of the Covid-19 pandemic, financial programmes will not be submitted until October 1. Of course, it has come to the point that real changes in this transport plan cannot be made, but there are, of course, certain ideas in this relationship, and the greater part has taken place, as the leading speaker of the case had already been traced back here during the discussion. paritaprevir Will Árnason, setting priorities for three years. I'd like to end up referring to the advance as a revered senator, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, responded to the opinion of the greater part. There's a point I'm a little busy myself in and about the protection of my character. That's one of the things she'd say and I'd like to mention in that relationship. It refers to the rapid development of imaging technology and the possibility of linking imaging with a driver's license, thus providing more detailed information on the distribution of traffic, where it comes from, where it is going, etc. This, of course, will result in helpful and much information. I think it matters to me that she is pointing to the obvious, that for this need to be awake, but I would also like to say in general the discussion of this hall that we need to be alert to it, and I feel positive to see it and experience, that there is an increasing understanding of the importance of this sect at the General Assembly and that we may be increasingly approaching the personal protection principle of the respect they deserve, namely. that the personal rights of being allowed to be part of things and to be thought, discussed, and settled as independent reasoning rather than leftover size. There is always a small risk of a good law aim, which we must give ourselves to be equal, that we are going to achieve so much of the public interest that we are all shy about flaunting these views because they certainly have a tendency to cut into the public interest. But then you have to remember that although personal protection is usually in place, the protection of the individual in this large population, it is natural, when it comes to all, the public interest that the state is ready in a conversation about how we are going to go, despite the intention of bringing up the good results of achieving some of the public interest, not giving a discount of the individual's interests of the relationship; that it cannot always stand and forever - of course, this argument is not absolute - and being a final answer, when we are floundering views and worries with personal protection, the goal of being good. If that is enough in any case, you see, the personal protection is getting pretty weak, so I'm very happy to see a discussion about this, for someone might say: " What is personal protection of transportation or traffic? I agree that there is a need for good work here and that there is a proper cooperation with Perone Protection to ensure that goals are achieved along with what the highest conditions of personal law will be respected. I'll make it count for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u121	Madam President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A candidate for an extremely extensive talk. What may have caught my attention first was what happened. The senator began his speech, and in some respects it ended, i.e. The opportunity in this situation today to use transport projects, and only in the transport system, to increase the number of jobs. I couldn't agree more. That's what a senator does. It's the famous story of Roosevelt, if I remember correctly, having ditches and shovels dug back into them to create jobs. We're so lucky we don't have to. Because there is so much need in our transport system that we do not need to do these things. Rather, we can create employment and, at the same time, improve the conditions in the transport system. Like what? A senator said that we need strength and courage in our strategy. True, there are positive things in this transport program, but you might do better. I wanted to ask you what. A senator: If in this context, would it not be appropriate to make good use of the downtrodden in the tourism service, as it were? A senator came on, to build exactly the infrastructure we've been worried about in the tourist bomb, that perhaps we should focus on building infrastructures that are useful for tourism, not making sure there's not a lot of tourists travelling around to strengthen the infrastructure, so they'll be ready when the tourists come back? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u122	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's question. True, I think we are on the same page very much. In all the burden that is natural now over the banks, we are seeing unemployment numbers that we hardly want to face, and ahead may be more difficult times ◯ It is also important to look to whether or what the opportunities in this situation are. There is indeed the room for the government's money, and the scene is as good as it is. A senator noted that the destinations in Iceland, which were packed by tourists, are not at present. In that light, you will also find that you are building up and building up your missing infrastructure and that travel services themselves have pointed out the need for help. If this is the frame in, I think it is also important for us as a community to try to face the situation, including the view that there is some opportunity here. This is true of transportation, as is the case with infrastructure in the wider context. We are blessed to enter this position to the point where there is truly the scope of our financial affairs. So I would simply repeat my earlier comments that now the government needs the strength and courage to take a firm step.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u123	Thank you. The answer to that question is clear enough to show that we feel the exact same way. But I would like a second answer to risk my way into an area where we may not be quite equal, or maybe we are. It'll be interesting to hear an answer. Senator. Hv. A senator entered the rural communities in his earlier speech and the importance of increasing conversation about transport practices in the rural community. It's an old story and new that when transport projects are precipitating, it's quite often so that instead of an upbuilding combination of priorities between rural and state - and the population of the country, if that's the case - there's too often a split. It is tried to draw out contrasts and to try to complicate things just enough to delay the other and those projects on the grounds that a mutual agreement or solidarity among partners on priorities is not reached. So I'd like to see if there's anything I can do. A senator agrees with me that we need to change this conversation. We need, for example. Just to change the conversation between capital and country so that we are more priorities, we are taking a conversation, the country in general, with the interests of the whole but not necessarily, as it is too often, that we end up arguing about a corner here or a single bridge there or a bicycle path somewhere else.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u124	Madam President. I specifically mentioned this by increasing the availability of local representatives to the priorities of transport projects. This may have something to do with what I opened up. The senator also mentioned himself - and I think that, unfortunately, there is one reason why people will be almost distracted by a discussion of transportation - how easy it is to achieve this divisive trend. I think anything that can get the discussion out of the tire tire marks arguing about unique roads, such as wind. A senator mentioned, or how quickly we are in the trenches, is an improvement. And I also mentioned earlier tonight what I have found positive about the discussion that has taken place tonight and earlier today, i.e. that we have somehow managed to look at the bigger picture and discuss matters in a larger context. I also refer to what I consider to be a fine example of successful cooperation. That is the agreement of the government with six societies in the capital area across the city line. I realize that not everyone in this room is called her fans. But I would still think that no matter where people are, whether the city line is right or not, this is a very good way to discuss a solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u125	A respectable president. I'll start with a few words why. A senator's goal in law was equal. That would be wishful. Maybe we could put it that way. That's not always true, especially when it comes to the greeting system, etc. This has happened in the process of transportation, as it has been said here, that various projects have been designed ever since. But mostly, I wanted to talk to him. A senator wrote about the portion of the talk about personal protection, the trace of vehicle, just by means of these tax charges as such. It is discussed only in the opinion of the greater part. The problem is that we are tracking vehicles through current technology, and much more can be done. The best way to protect personal protection is not to create data that can be abused. I understand in part that it is good to set up traffic monitoring with the aim of collecting data on how traffic flows, which is then done temporarily to investigate how certain intersections work, etc., I understand it quite well. But there's a road stop, and then there's a whole different arm. I ask this question: Is it really justified from a particular risk of personal protection, to go further into this technology by means of tax analysis? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u126	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's question. I guessed that it would be a personal protection. Regarding the legal aims, that they are usually good, I think I said it in a neat way that we must give it to ourselves. Regarding the protection principle: Hv. One senator noted that the problem is that we are already tracking the vehicle and the solution is not creating the data. Of course, one of the problems we face with the protection talk is that we have drawn the boundaries. We're no longer discussing whether we create the data. The evidence is usually available, so some of the fence has somehow moved. The danger of data that are created with some good and worthy goal in mind is that it is often tickled to use it for another purpose. I think once the data is complete, we'll be at least To work hard to make sure that they can then be used for what purpose. I'm not quite clear about it, and I admit that I don't know enough of the example. A senator mentioned. But in general, I often feel that this is the problem when we look at whether we're going to create the data and how we're going to use it simply because the first point doesn't apply anymore, the data are real, perhaps a problem that you can have, but it's hard to keep.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u127	A respectable president. Pirats may boast only because the personal protection has become more prominent in this council hall, and thanks also to its personal protection directives is a bit natural EU. When we had just agreed to the personal protection order here, visitors came before a committee and complained that they could not take advantage of certain data they had to contact the graduates in school. They knew exactly who these students were. They just needed permission to call them in order to prevent them from leaving school. You'll think right away: " If you know who they are, aren't you breaking the Homological Law? They all realized that this was exactly the case, that they had used the available data in order to obtain information that they were not entitled to. Road information can be used in a very diverse way. It is a connection, although attempting to go around it by creating a unique number for each car after driving through a specific area, it may even get to the next area and receive another unique number that is not necessarily the same, but the connection is always from the original unique number. I'm just trying to say that this system is a link between a person and a travel model, and so on. and it can be done much, much longer than we do now. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm trying to get the exact point that it's a decision we have to make right now, we're going to go in that direction and collect data and make it or not? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-16-118.u128	Madam President. Hv. A senator named the EU in relation to the protection order. I can't let go of the fact that it is now the reality that Europe really increases its quality here and there, and I don't think we can underestimate it. But this may always take place in the same place. Hv. A senator has an example of what can be traced out, and all of this is done for some purpose. First point I feel I should be: Is this really necessary? The answer is often yes, it may be necessary. Is the cost of community information too high? The answer may be yes at times, and at times it is an assessment. But then I feel that if we are going to answer that information, if we are going to go to this collection, we will always be very clear about it, and we will end up using it for a purpose other than theirs. But saying that, so I'll allow myself to be a little practical in this discussion, now that technology has often used us, e.g. in criminal studies. There have been serious criminal cases where this has helped. But I also mention it in the context of the fact that when these examples arise, it becomes so urgent that it will become so urgent that if the information is ignored, there is a serious danger of us losing ourselves. I think the answer to this is that the rules of the game need to be completely light and clear, so we need to answer at the outset if this information is usually justified. [[The president calls.]]
