ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u1	The president considers an agreement that allows for a meeting to last longer than the council can expect. Yet, there is hope that there is no need for a meeting, that a meeting doesn't have to continue late tonight, in view of the fact that a meeting was held until midnight yesterday and again, a long meeting can be expected tomorrow. But for safety this is done for the end of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u2	Mr. President. We're here discussing a bill to legalize equal positions, as well as the right of the sex and the bill to legalize the administrative affairs of equality. The committee shared these issues and received quite a number of visitors. Of course, I'm going to trace the conclusion, for we're going to take an enormously important step with a bill to correct equal positions and equal sexual rights. This is a new total law, which will replace the old law on equal status and the rights of women and men alike. The general pleasure was among the servers with these bills, to form a set-up for equal positions, and the sexual rights standard being extended by the law to include people with neutral sex recordings, and a new reference is laid on a wide range of discrimination, as well as on the bill for the legislation of equality. We specifically considered a few things, including term use. There was a hint of inconsistencies in the conceptal use, which the majority of them would like to point out, however, that the terms presented have been in the same standard as the equal rights of women and men, and have developed a certain experience in their interpretation, e.g. ... inthedemnition of Equal Opposing Committees. In itself, it has not been possible to find that real disagreements were about the concept that, apart from the fact that the law of equally pay-authorization became valid and some rural societies felt that they did not fall under it. However, this has now been unambiguous, and it is up to who falls there, including rural communities. Hence, the majority believe that the terms under which the term is addressed fall. The importance of maintaining the financial status of an economistic firm was also shown to address the need for more standards than below, but there is expected to be one more value where projects will be increased. However, it is also assumed that one more status value will be published in an economist because of the organizational changes in these issues and how they are put in place. We'll just have to record it if there's something else about it. At that time, as a paid witness, it was reported to have proved to have been a major problem for rural society, and a pandemic had, of course, added to it as well as in many other places. The duties of the smallest community were considered to be high, especially in the period of time to obtain that witness, and they requested that they be shown understanding and support to complete the equally pay contract and that forced management of them would not be undertaken. In the majority of our efforts, we presented a moderate measure of control and, in some cases, a measure of care. take into account the impact of the pandemic. A balance test was discussed in a small way, since companies with a average of 25◯49 employees each year can obtain a so-called equally pay check. Some wanted a company to be covered with as many as 99 employees in general, but we didn't consider it to be a reason to change, since these are less effective measures than equally pay -- and not a reason for others to fall under it. There was a comment that the confirmation was not comparable to that of a paid witness. It required that an economist be specifically recognized for the equal pay standard but should still provide confirmation of its requirements. Subscriptors that this results in a significant reduction in the value of the trust and the role of the employer and the profession. The majority of it is important that smaller companies be able to gain the same amount of remuneration because they do not have the same inputs as inseminations and larger companies to install a quality management system according to the highest requirements of the equally paid standard required to pass a technical witness to professional certications. In itself, less demands are being made to the equally pay policy than to give smaller companies and institutions a choice at this time. Experience has shown that both methods do not provide gender - based pay requirements can be met by the law on pay remuneration and show that there is no gender pay. Then it may have taken most of the time in our discussion, on methodology and the basis of the Commission of Equal Opportunities, and so on. I'm going to review it as it happens in my opinion because I think it's important that it come out here. 19th degree. the bill is about job discrimination and recruitment on the basis of gender. Four and five. The article is presented on the one hand with a principle of evidence and with a physical agreement of 4 and 5 mg. adapt to equal positions and equal rights for women and men. For the Committee it was considered a statement made by the General agent due to limitations in the methodology and the assessment criteria of the Court of Equal Opportunities and that only the jury would be considered to have continued the same methods and assessments as criticism and the recommendation of an agent in terms of the 2013 case of No. 6395/2011. In the opinion of an agent, it was concluded that the evaluations and methods of the Committee of Equal Opportunities had not been in accordance with the legal role of the Committee under law of No. 10/2008. In this context it was noted that, to some extent, the World Council agent's viewpoint had come to the court of the Supreme Court, and the court had considered the methodology legitimate for the panels and that the committee had not gone beyond its domains or domains, as reflected in the judgment since January 15, 2015, in the January 15, 2011, issue of No. 364/2014. In comment, we're 19. are the main points of view, including on the methodology and on the grounds of the Commission of Equal Opportunities, the majority refer to this discussion. In this context, a greater proportion is stated that the study in a report aimed at inducing different viewpoints in these topics is not intended to interfere with the physical interpretation of the law or to reduce the protection of the law; nor can it be seen that by the bill it is expected to alter the current rules on the prohibition against discrimination based on gender in recruitment. So the majority believe that by interpreting the matter, the above court considers the Supreme Court on the methodology or on the basis of the Commission's assessment. Thus, it may be inevitable for the D.A. to consider, not only the qualifications, but also other factors on which the hosts claim to have based their decision, and thus to decide whether these requirements and the factors, as well as their application was perfunctory. Therefore, according to the court, it is enough to determine whether the viewpoint was perplexing and not evidently undisputed. A respectable president. The Committee also discussed the implementation of a sex - rights programme, and comments were made that the work programme's domain had been interpreted with a narrow interpretation. It would be preferable for executives outside the board, e.g. In addition, rural and Community organisations and members of the workforce may be supported by this programme for projects that serve emphasis that have led to consultation with them. We are entitled to develop plans to describe the actions of individual recruitment agents and, after some of the subgroups in cooperation with the Ministry. In some cases, rural society or the European Union may be the partners of recruitment, but the range of values for these specific initiatives can only be proposed. There was a suggestion that economists should be in the full - time service at all costs, but we do not feel that there is a need for equality, since they have been promoted considerably in the Ministry of Presidency. Rather, we stress that it is important to share that experience with the Ministry of Equal Opportunities that will be expected to promote the position of equality in the councils, even though it is not a full standard. In the 28th C.E. participation is required in government committees, counsels, and governments. Comments were made on the report that the law could hardly take full feet to people with neutral registrations, but it is unlikely that that this group would, as it says, be exaggerated. Then, contrary to the main purpose of the law on sexual autonomy, instead of the word "thinkings " will come to the heart of the women and men to whom it is written. The majority, however, point out that in some terms it is necessary to mention male and female gender, where there is still a power imbalance between and the number of women and men involved is similar in size and aim to equal the potential for the inclusion and impact of these two groups in the community. However, the majority believe that the terms of the bill still ensures the rights of all sensors where 28. The bill does not interfere with the existence or appointment of subjects with neutral registration of race to national names, committees, councils, and governments. It was also found that the combination would have to be done. The bill at 44th and 45th. Substitute government law. So we're directed to the Ministry of Presidency, in collaboration with the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, to examine it and to see if there are any changes. For 30th. The bill advises that it is safe to integrate gender and equality with all policies and programmes of recruitment and public institutions in their fields, as well as all decisions within recruitment and institutions, as appropriate. Here's a suggestion that this should apply also to the distribution of capitals. We feel that this too is to be taken care of, and this may result from the 1st verse. The bill. In terms of the equally remuneration confirmation, there is a provision for temporary II in terms of deadlines, which I only came in earlier. In some 500 companies and institutions, the choice to obtain either as much pay or as as the pay of validation as in this provision is assumed to be a continuation of enterprises and institutions until the end of 2022. The committee was advised that this may be the case in order to allow companies and institutions to accept the same amount of pay, rather than equally pay, because of cost and scope, and that high weight would be found in applications for the equally pay check-up last month of 2022. A review of whether to change these intervals and even to extend was observed. In the greater part, we feel that the same time period has already been extended by one year by Regulation. It was reported from the Inter-American Union and BSRB that the level of remuneration was extended. It is discussed in provisional III to appoint a group of workers to discuss pay signals specifically and provide possible guidelines for changes in law to prevent the maintenance of pay money at work. There is evidence that the two parties do not agree on the best way to get it, and the more part feels that a team will be assigned to review it more closely and offer possible suggestions for these matters, whether it is in order to explain the equally paidness of the work, or whether there are reasons to offer other suggestions. It was observed in the treatment of the case that a report on the number of genders fostered the conceptibility and would allow for multiplicity in species instead of merely referring to a non-general sex registration, which is the third sex registration allowed according to the sexual autonomy laws. It is better to use the expression'simpactal registration' of a generation in a national file to be used. Under these circumstances, we take in the greater part that there are truly more than two genders, and we believe that this is a reference to all genders. The terms of the bill refer to an impartial registration of a generation, although the wording was certainly one of the same. The commission also gave a view that the so - called prior order of equality that if a man or a woman are as qualified for a job, a person of the sex should be hired. The rule has already been confirmed on a court case. The majority point shows that the unregistered priority rule is used only if the members are judged as qualified and the use of the rule is rather clear. We do not believe that it is a validation; rather, we need to emphasize how this is done in order to make a valid assessment. The rules for application are not to be found in the equality laws of other countries, nor in the directives that have been introduced into the realm of equality. Then, regardless of race or ethnic background, the dilation of a range of laws for equal care. In accordance with the provision of temporary legal requirements for the Ministers to submit within a year from the values of the law's bill at the General Parliament, which requires that the law be adjusted so that it applies not only to equal treatment of individuals regardless of race and nationality but also to independent of religion, philosophy, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender characteristics, or gender expression in all areas of the community outside the labour market, as well as the law on equal treatment of work markets. The committee was called by that legislation, but the jury moved from the Ministry of Social Affairs to the Ministry of Presidency, and this is actually strengthening the basics by the bill we discuss here. But they are working to provide a bill in which the set of values discussed here will be expanded. They also discussed meeting international treaties and negotiations, including those in the United States. to validate the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointment We agree that the year 2019 was published by the government's consultation plans for the bill of an independent national rights agency. Commenting on the fact that this had not been submitted because the Agency was not expected in a financial programme, it is noted that there will continue to be ways to establish an independent national rights agency and the following steps will be discussed in the Management Board's Management Board on Human Rights. Of course, we encourage that work to continue. A respectable president. In the treatment of the case, the commission was made to suggest that the surveillance status of an economistic facility would be limited to institutions, companies and partners at Article 5. The bill, but the duties were also extended to a rural society according to Article 13. Furthermore, if comparable information is available in other public sources, it would not be burdensome to provide twofold attentions. Section 5. For the most part, the bill agrees in a physical way with 4,◯6. mg Section 4. adapt to equal positions and equal rights of women and men, and we do not feel the need for change in this law. We will then agree that the report suggests that, according to Article X of the Treaty, employees of an Semitic Court are forbidden to use their facilities for obtaining information or data but necessary for the Agency to perform its legal functions. It is, of course, forbidden to deliver data to non-medical sources of equality. An equal office is hereby authorized for daily stress in more specific cases. Some thought that there would be a reason for raising a maximum daily ticket at 80,000 p.m. but more part believes that the application is in accordance with the authority of other strains, such as The Regulation established by the Marketing Authorisation Holder, therefore we do not feel the need to change. The importance of receiving a service fee was then highlighted. The majority of the data collection and monitoring work is part of the day-to-day activities of the lab, as has been done so far, and the projects are funded. ... witha financing on the budget and on the financial agenda. Then there's another point that was also discussed a bit carefully, and it was whether the jury could decide on the basis of all the laws at once and whether there would be a great deal of discrimination. For that reason, the majority of the remaining segment will be held in Article 8. The bill makes it clear that the Court's Committee of Equal Opportunities is being prosecuted on the basis of all three laws and makes a written statement as to whether their laws were violated. At the Committee's meetings, a view was made that it could be explained more clearly what instructions the Committee on Equal Opportunities could use and on what occasion. The bill's report clearly shows when this might apply and when it might not apply. The committee also discussed a number of recent statements that if the evidence provider does not wish to make a ruling in favor of the prosecution, such as 5 mgr. Section 8. The bill. A consideration of the failure of such a system of things to frighten individuals from bringing their case under the judicial committee of equality, or even leading to higher court lawsuits, was established. In view of this newer, the greater part is directed to the Ministry to carefully monitor the development of these materials and to see if the directive meets the desired objectives and responds if necessary. According to the bill, court treatment must be written. It was suggested that not all Icelandic or Northern countries might know and wonder if there would be a need to be available in more languages in the light of a law on equality. This is one of the things that we have to consider in the Ministry. 5 mg. 10th par. it also states that if the Court's Committee of Equal Opportunities is to address matters relating to recruitment, sentence or job order, they can obtain further information about the case from the person to whom the job was entrusted, it should be considered as a reason, in order to inform the case sufficiently in accordance with Article 10. Government law. The report suggests that the provision is in part to respond to the recommendations expressed in the opinion of the U.S. government agent of the 2013 Council, in the case of which I traced the above. In this context it is noted that so far, the person to whom the work is going to become a subject of equal equality is not customary. It even spells. Because the Commission does not have the authority to bring down the council to which the European Commission decides, and thus the results of the Commission do not affect the legal status of the employee, such as the earlier judgment of Iceland's Supreme Court. The majority, therefore, do not conclude that those hired for employment will be involved in such matters, but it may be necessary in certain matters to obtain more information about the case from those who were assigned to the job. So the majority do not consider that there is reason to make changes in this arrangement and that this is how the above - mentioned commission was met. It also showed that according to Article 13. Member States are expected to conclude the end of rural elections to ensure that a new programme for terms of objectives and measures to prevent discrimination will be implemented. For the Committee it was critical of an arrangement that laid down the equality programmes of a community in the 15th but the equal programmes of the enterprises and institutions in the 14th matter. In this context, the greater part shows that in the law on equal positions and the equal rights of women and men, this arrangement is already in place and in each plan of its own. However, rural equality programmes have changed to make them more efficient. It is then the issue of an equal rights firm to see if there are any demands on equality. You know, the peer advice was a little obvious in the reviews. In par. 24th. The bill discusses the order, role, and tasks of the council and suggests changes in the order to reduce the number of agents from eleven to six. Of course, no one wanted to lose his chair, but most were willing to lay down an equal rights scheme because they might have lost their job over the years. They wanted to, however, if the council were not laid down, not necessarily give in to their seats. We agree that the Supreme Court may have lost his role, as laid down, through the years, including with an organization on an equality council that has moved to the Ministry of Presidency. Therefore, we suggest that the Council be submitted but instead, at least once a year, we will be called together with representatives from the labour market, the educational community, and the organisations working on sex equality with those who wish to participate. Although the right to do so in the present form, we suggest that the promise be continued because it has made a place in the community. The role of this scheme must be Minister of Equal Opportunities for consultation with professional policy issues related to sex equality and the Ministers should meet at least once a year with the Council. We feel that it is better to start regular consultation in this way than to remain unchanged. A respectable president. A 17 - year - old who had to be mentally involved was also given a view of the need for interplaying 13th pars. The bill at 4. The bill to correct equal positions and equal rights between genders, 14th case, and the role of rural society to shape a comprehensive policy of equality for its inhabitants and the role of rural partners as employers to provide specific rights for their employees. In view of this, the greater part suggests that in the Community equalisation plan, it should specify how employees will be assured of the rights laid down in the bill for the equal status and sexual status of the sex, and suggest changes in the content of Article 13. The bill. Other proposed changes are primarily for correction and technologically and do not have a material impact on the bill. According to the above, the greater part suggests that the bills will be agreed with the changes made to the proposals for special Congress documents. Under these publications. Councilmen Páll Gunnlaugsdóttir, president of the General and Education Committee, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Guðmundur Andri Árnadóttir, Birgir Ármannsson, in advance of what he is expected to be aware of, Þóra Steinunn Guinsótir, Steinunnustjörður Ánar, Þórinu, Þárnar Áárárárur Sigárur Gundalur Gunlíldur, and Thordur Ævarsdóttir Hevótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u3	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, leading director of the case, has made a detailed explanation of the members of the Committee on the two issues that have been in our field of discussion. I'd like to sign the committee's opinion in advance, and I'd like to see that the court is not going to accept the case or the existing adjustments. But there are certain things I would like to do in advance, so I would tell them that I wasn't exactly -- I don't say I don't agree, but I'm at least thinking about certain points in the text that have to do with wording. So my comments are more relevant to wording than to the material or the existing adjustments. What I might have stopped at all times was speculation about the 19th floor. the bill, the equal position and the equal status, as it is dealing with the discrimination in the recruitment process, i.e. differences based on gender. The conclusion of the bill makers and then of the Committee is not to make a proposal for any material change to the current requirement for this. So the points taken into this bill are in accordance with the current law in a physical sense. Like what? paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir could do with proof rules, i.e. who are responsible for the burden of evidence in certain situations and, on the other hand, the guidelines for evaluating how to evaluate whether a person who is in a position of authority was concerned that the views of equality should be considered when making a decision. In fact, there are standards that the jury should take into consideration when evaluating whether a complaint is based on discrimination in this regard is to support or not. The reason this has been given a few attentions. Comments that have come more than once, and more than twice, from the U.S. Marshal's agent, first from the local emissary of 2013, Róbert Spanó, if I recall correctly, and then repeated. Last summer, an agent of the Al Parliamentis, Tryggvi Gunnarsson's son, sent a letter to the prime minister for this reason. To make a long story short, an agent felt that the DC Committee of Equal Opportunities had gone beyond its domain, as it were, considering the factors that need to be considered when assessing whether discrimination was involved in recruitment. The Commission reviewed that the Supreme Court has discussed, at least once, on this basis, in the January 2015 decision-making committee, if I recall correctly, where a matter was discussed. Hence, some would like to draw far - reaching conclusions that the Supreme Court has generally declared support or is generally agreed with or agreed with the Management Board's methodology. I'm not sure that such general conclusions can be drawn from the 2015 Supreme Court Court. He certainly says that in the particular case that was then under consideration, the methodology of the panels stood up. But as I'm saying, I may not be prepared to write down that because of this, it may be concluded that the Department's methodology has generally received a blessing from the Supreme Court. A general and educational committee in itself may not have been able to determine this, i.e. The General and Education Committee may not be in position to make a definitive assessment of the legal issues there, as well as the viewpoint of visitors from the Commission of Equal Opportunities and of the General Agents. A general and educational committee certainly deals with this in the text of a committee study but makes no modifications to the bill and the bill includes the continuation of the current code of law. Thus, we can conclude that the legal disagreement in regard to the interpretation of these laws will remain. I don't see that the treatment of the case here at the council will lead to the conflict of interpretation, and it, of course, must be the Supreme Court's job to determine in the future whether the rules are clear or not. But I just wanted to make it clear that we in the General and Education Committee are not deciding in these matters and that the option to leave the current rules remains, which, of course, means that there was a difference between us that I think it is, that he will remain. It is then the role of courts to determine how these laws should be interpreted. That's what I'd like to say, just to explain my warning. There's another point I was going to mention. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir mentioned in his speech when judicial decisions are made that this would be part of the jury's case. Then the hosts need, if we can say so, which is not satisfied with the decision of the Commission of Equal Opportunities, to lead both the accuser and the prosecution. It is new and, in a way, a conflict with the usual rules for judicial action. I don't disagree with this conclusion, but I agree with it. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir said that there is reason to observe how this will turn out and after the incident revised if necessary. Of course, there were some changes in this regard when, if I remember correctly, the DA's results became binding decisions in 2008. Before that, it was only a matter of opinion from the charge. Of course, although considered to be of considerable importance, they were not binding on legal requirements. However, 2008's change meant that the results are binding, thus having the right effect. As a result, my experience has been good and bad. Nevertheless, it remains that despite binding the results, individuals can share their differences with the courts in this bill. And in order that, just so that we speak clearly about this, the prosecution will not stand alone in the court, the prosecution is being appointed because, of course, the legal decision of the jury is also being made. However, in view of the unusual, in some way abnormal, relative to normal judicial matters, I agree that there will be follow-up, how this may be, and whether there is a basis for change. I'm not going to have any more of these words, Mr. President, but I'm saying that even though I'm warning the words in the text, that does not include suggestions for change or comment to the existing adjustments made and based on this committee's list.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u4	A respectable president. I feel that the theme of all approach and our discussion on this subject is simply the title of the case itself. On the other hand, we are talking about the equality, the shape, and the equal position that, in my mind, has been drawn to the conclusion. As we approach the issue with them with glasses and look at the positions of men and women in the community, the conclusion is that we have not reached the same position as men and women. Therefore, laws such as this are important in defending position and moving forward, better in terms of gender equality. In general, I feel that I have done well in this matter. Good work was done on the committee. We received many good visitors with insight into different aspects of equality, and the passage was quite extensive and good. Iceland's balance status is good and good, compared to other countries. But as I mentioned right away, we are simply not in the place where men and women's positions are the same in the community, so we need to have legislation that is designed to achieve a better position. There were some points in the review of the case and at the bill itself that merely sat in. First, and that is the focus of this, there is a discussion on the methodology and the treatment of judicial matters within the Commission of Equal Opportunities. The board is a specific tool that we use to determine whether or not a job is correct in certain matters, but, of course, it gives the line and the tone of how we approach these issues and what our standards in general are. I think it is important that in the greater part of the committee, it is clear that although certain views have been flimsied in the treatment of this case, the lawgiver is quite clear that the legal methodology of the DA's Committee will not be hampered by this case. We are looking ahead, and we are clear in this case that the methodology is unchanged and it should remain unchanged regarding how the committee works. For a while, I felt that the lyrics could indicate that we were going another way. That would have made me unable to support this matter. But since we did not, and we are clear to the fact that we are going to keep going, continue, I support the coverage of more of the committee, even though this was only at the outset. After listening to the experts at the Ministry of Presidency and after reaching landmarks about how the text in our committees is in this regard, I agree with the conclusion. Another factor I'm setting up is a question mark, but it's not as important as the methodology of the DA's committee, that the hearing of a court case should be directed. This is evident in the case of a certain court case. I've understood the highest word. The prime minister so that this is a direct reaction to the court case that the minister of education now runs. This is to soften in some way the blow that a person is facing when the State itself seeks justice only for the sake of justice. I can understand that response at the highest. A prime minister in this particular context and would even allow me to go so far that I can understand her reaction as opposed to this matter, even though of course I am just guessing. This includes, however, certain safety signals, since the deliberation of the Committee with an individual may make it easier for the Polish, political, to resort to, or take the lead in not considering any longer, but rather to present such cases before judgment. Of course, there was a reason for these decisions to be binding. This is a signal that we want these decisions to be meaningful. Of course, it is so that a judicial committee can always be ruled. It is not a point to discuss, whether it should be, but it is always a political decision whether to use that tool. I find it obvious to myself that the situation in such judicial cases is adventurous and that the experience of the person facing a court case with the State itself, where a person is headed for judgment, is struck, and there is no softer than any other person at her side. However, it may be easier for politics to plan to draw it up in this way. So I'm taking this in, I think that in the case of the court today, it wouldn't have made that person's experience easier or lighter, even if the DA's office was next to it. But in view of my circumstances, I can have a certain understanding that this occurred in the political arena. I don't see the whole point of it myself. It is always possible to obtain information and information from the NTSB, is willing to do so. For my part, I'd support that this is going to be revised soon. It's not a completely unknown practice, but it's not a general praxize, and I think if you look at it, you can see it. in the context that we are not going up to the National Court even if the matter is appealed, you are not taking the judge along the way. In view of circumstances, I understand what is going on, though I feel that it is unnecessary and not a failure to improve the legal status or experiences of the person facing them. In itself, I find an additional point, e.g. As to today's court case, the conclusion is that this is a matter of politics, that the government is ruled. As with any NTSB, it's not infallible, it's not true. It's not true. I don't think it's easy to use power like this. Regarding the Commission itself, it is important to me that the greater part is clear that we will continue to apply the same methodology, which, of course, can be seen that the law itself is unchanged, there is no chemical change. The committee's opinion of this issue is very subtle, and it includes, in my opinion, a very important political message and, of course, the legal answer to the Lawgiver in this regard is clear: we are going to proceed. There is no special change in the journey, for it is not in my mind in the court language, indicating that there is a systemal error in the way these cases have been handled over the years. Again, to be said, the NTSB is no less infallible than anyone else. But if it was that the committee was taking some power or taking any longer than it has been legally established, there is no evidence in judicial decisions to suggest that the courts agree with it. They discussed involvement in the person who receives a job in this context. They have also been heard. I don't think it's absolutely necessary and, in effect, being directed into matters that don't matter to her. It might even be that it can be a painful experience to be dragged into some court case and some form of speech that is beyond your control. After listening to the visitors and specialists who came to the conclusion of the matter, I feel that there is much more good in this matter than bad, and in fact, I feel that the windows were shut where there was danger. I want to finish my case in saying that Iceland's status on equality is not just a coincidence. We are at the top of World Economic Forum's list and have been doing so for a decade, should be proud, but time should not bring us here but decisive action, consistent equality lines, and targeted legislation such as these, legislation such as equal pay, fertilities in governments and our birth certificate. There's a basic law in this context. It is my sincere hope that we are not at the same time doing such a thing that has been committed to some type of work to intend to run many, many steps back by leaving behind in law code on hysteria, i.e. will be giving a discount on the fact that we have the parents'right to take birth vacations. It is interesting to hear and feel, though the law is not older than 20 years old, it is not long since fathers first received the real recognition of their role as inventors by receiving a three - month-old permission to birthworm, a conversation about its need no longer being needed. I feel so obvious about the consequences. If we go to one of those gymnasiums to offer mothers four months, fathers four and four times, the conclusion that mothers will take the largest part because we are still living in a very strong sexist society. It will make it harder for fathers to get the right to take a birthworm. It will make it more difficult for mothers to move toward a job market in those circumstances. I would be sad to handle this case, with a lot of work being put on to defend Iceland's good status in equality, and even moving forward, and being so concurrently here in the last days of Congress possibly to face a very serious setback in equality, leaving the matter of birthworm on the way I would like to, at least ever again, there is a serious danger that we are about to give about sex pay, back to the compartments of our sex in their respective social roles. It's my warning at the end of this discussion that there's little work to do in this way if we can't stand up and defend the right sex in a basic law on equality as the birth and parent'sor.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u5	Mr. President. I recommend here for the Committee of Economic and Business Commission's list of changes to the bill to legalize a change of credit laws and financial taxes, financial services. I'm just gonna run over the committee opinion that stands in place and point out that the committee suggests some adjustments in terms of enforcation 1. g., especially where KPMG's tips deal with the electronic version of a battery, that it falls below that point. Then there are other changes made that are first and last technically. There were also some proposed changes to Article 7. The bill, which is in favor of contracts, according to tips from Deloitte and the Association of Trade and Service on the authority to reimburse the money tax already paid to the state's fund, is not determined whether it is permitted to renegotiate these items. This is true when renting has not been truly paid. With the changes made in Article 7. The bill is being met by tenants and, on the other hand, tenants, making it easier for them to negotiate deadlines and even down payment of rent so as not to come to the pay of a remuneration tax or to postpone a remuneration tax. In accordance with local legislation, worth tax should be paid as soon as possible, and when renting, it is considered to be delivered while in the appropriate housing. For many, the largest part of this available bill may be an extension of the plan All Work, i.e. 100% reimbursement tax from industrial workers at the construction site. In addition, it is important to note that the committee proposed a new provision for the bill regarding the value of a tax from an event during a flow, a provisional principle. Because of the government's criteria to restrict the spread of the Korean virus, there has been an increasing increase in art events without local audiences, but if there is a direct stream and access to them through a flow band, either to a linear or nonlinear program. To make a long story short, the Commission proposes provisional regulations, from November 1, that there is no value on events, art events, concerts, show shows, etc., sold into flows. I think this should make it easier for many artists now to live, and especially for us who will enjoy. Mr. President. I'm not going to do this any further, but I'm going to refer to the committee opinion and the changes that follow with it. Under the heading, write why. For, behold, Óli Kárason, the Jón of Meri, Jóldr, the Steindór of Valdimarsson, Brabbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Bryndís the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Ólafur Þór the son of Gunnarsson, Smári Mccarthy, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunul, and Willum Þór Þórsson, son of Thor.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u6	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, with a change to the bill for the review of income tax laws and tax exchange laws. The Commission has discussed the situation and has contacted with representatives from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Skatti, the Allied Union of Iceland, BSRB, Naziq Iceland, Reykjavíkurburg and the financial organizations. The committee also received reviews from the same partners as the Organization for Employment. When capital tax was increased from 20% to 22% in 2018, the pay target was raised to 150,000. This bill suggests that stock income that falls under the holiday market will be improved as the holiday market increases to 300,000 dollars. In this way, the stock market will also include stock markets and market market markets and stock markets that are registered in an orderly stock market or in a financial market. Still, and it's important that it come, the profit and interest of stocks in unscheduled partners will be fully taxed. Before a fourfold cut was adopted in 2010, the budget was paid by reimbursed taxes so that the total inflation rate was fully taxed. The aim of the holiday target is to protect individuals from such taxation, which is essentially unfair, as well as to increase tax incentives for investment and savings. According to Nasdaq Iceland, the approval of the bill can make a difference in the availability of SMEs to raise financial support by the end of the viral epidemic. In particular, members of the committees were called upon to show that, despite the legal nature of their main tasks, local capital income and other tax revenues are largely restricted to capital taxes. Then rural communities have been funded by loans to their own partners. The opinion of rural society to pay interest taxes on loans to their own partners afforded them the potential to obtain loans at favourable interest rates and to continue to lend money on the same terms to their own partners who perform legal functions. It is suggested in the bill that the sales market of vacation houses values apply to the same rules and conditions for the sale of an apartment house, although property has lasted for a minimum of five years. There was evidence to indicate that in general there are other views of vacation homes than dwellings and that this tendency should be taken into account when it comes to providing the same rules for the handling of both types of goods. Therefore, it is not possible to require that vacation homes have been used by the owner of the home to determine whether the owners'own use was involved. Therefore, you need to make it a matter of advance notice that a vacation house was only new to owners, not a deposit on money. It was also indicated that possession would be dropped below the 17th limit. a law on income taxes, so that housing and vacation housing are used in an equal way in terms of sales. Moreover, it was noted that leisure homes are often replaced by owners today and that such housing has become more common when offered to rent for profit. It may be expected that a purpose will be achieved without creating a general tax gain from the purchases and sales of vacation homes by extending the time of holding. The committee agrees with these views and gives us reason to explain the wording of the law, i.e. 1st (For fully formatted text, see publication) One to the size limit of 1 mg. 17th par. the management of income taxes as well as the sale of vacation housing and the minimum maintenance period will be prolonged by two years, from five years to seven years. The conclusion, then, is that the profit of a vacation house is not considered taxable to be a home within a given size and that it was new to the owners rather than rent on fees, as ownership has lasted for a minimum of seven years continuously. The majority of the committee's rights to sales of housing have the size of 2 stipples 1 mg. 17th par. Don't fix it when the sold apartment property has been for its own use. In such a situation, then, it is not to see whether the total volume of the sold will exceed the bounds of the provision of tax from an apartment building. According to Article 1. The bill, as it is suggested to be modified, must be both free - time homes for personal use and be within the nominal proportions so that taxable profits are not deemed taxable. So there is something more true about vacation homes than an apartment building in which the person lives and lives in a legal home. When assessing whether leisure houses are within the size of 1 mg. 17th par. The law shall be given according to the sum of the total volume of the sold vacation house and the second residence of the seller on the day of sale. The opposite is the assessment of whether housing is within the size of 1 mg. 17th par. The law of law and whether the profit of its sale is considered as taxable income. According to the words, the 2nd sentence, 1 mg. 17th par. The law should be determined by the total volume of an apartment house host to investigate whether or not to exceed the size limit and to pay the tax. A vacation home is not considered a home, and as a result, its total volume is not included in the 1 mg conversation size. 17th par. The law to sell apartment property. Then there was a view that there was a reason to increase the size limit of 1 mg. 17th par. meets the average volume of vacation homes in Iceland. The majority of these views are understood and considered appropriate to be followed by the validation of the law, to be legally the bill. In addition, the greater part gives a pan-European review of the multi-regulated volume rule 1 mg. 17th par. The law. The rule is to establish from 1972 and have full reason to reevaluate whether the total house - to - house value is the proper criteria for assessing whether tax will be paid to a certain estate. About 2. The bill on financing income taxes considers it necessary for the Commission to meet the individuals who see certain expenditures on a non-U.S. dollar currency and thus invest in foreign currency to protect themselves from gang changes. This is especially true of Icelandic students who study other countries. The majority of the shares provided indications that the implementation of unsolved eco-efficiency by special savings accounts could become complex and evaluable. In view of this, the greater part contributes to 2kt. The bill goes off and aims to the Ministry to work more closely on the implementation of the project in consultation with the tax and the financial organisation. The export may also require looking to the general budget of funds. In the 5th. The bill is proposed to change the law on local tax payment on capital gains that the indentations of special savings will be extradated according to the proposed change 2.g. The bill has the law on income taxes. In accordance with the nature of the case, the greater part contributes to Article 5. The bill will be removed at the time of termination of Article 2. As a result, only bill articles on the change of income tax laws are quoted, and therefore they are proposed to change the bill's heading accordingly. Other changes are word changes that are not meant to have material influence and need no further explanation. In view of this, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes listed in the leading section of the committee. Under regard to the writings of Óli Björn Kárason, chairman of Brunzer the Brynjar of Níelsson, Valdimarsson Páldímsson, Bordisdótti Haraldsdóttir, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunulsson, and Willum Þór, son of Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The apostle Brynjar's Níelsson for a detailed discourse on this matter, which in most respects is very basic. It is not later hoped that this matter will be submitted when the terms of the season are almost over. I remember that when this increase in the proportion of capital taxes from 20 to 22% was approved in December 2017 - I'm not counting on that increase - a reimbursement of the taxpayer taxes was presented. I'd love to let me ask you what. One authority to see if he has any explanation for why this matter has not been established before. Of course he's not answering for the highest. The secretary of finance, however, knows why it is not until this year that is appointed to review the matter. The present bill is a product of that work, as shown in the bill. I have more questions for what? A senator, and they'll give me a second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u8	V.E.G. President. You're right about what you're doing. A senator's insistence on raising the capital tax from 20 to 22% in 2017 was that we had to find an arrangement where we were taxing real income, not the inflation. Thus, the tax is essentially unfair. I understand it wasn't very simple to do this. I don't know how to explain why it's gotten late, but the conclusion is, and it's not gonna be perfect, just raising the holiday goal. They reach ordinary employees, reach the common people who labor in the sweat of their faces, and may have some extra time left for hard work. Then comes the government and tax returns the savings bill, really no real product, it's taxing just inflation. This is to meet it. I think that's a general understanding of that, and a lot more of all the committees believe that it's important that we are only taxing real income. But I can't answer that question directly and can't explain why it's taken three years. I understand that this committee has now done a good job, and it has concluded to do this way. True, we take out paragraphs 2 and 5. because it is only necessary to be examined. But most importantly, we're about to stop taxing inflation, and we're making sure that people who have bought a vacation house and who don't pay money from it, and that doesn't make people lose public security rights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u9	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. He mentioned ordinary people, just working people. After all, ordinary people do not gain money unless they have put aside wages they have paid for. That is why the pursuit of some people, perhaps who feel that they have all that is called righteousness and reasonableness somehow taken away for themselves and that they are the only spokesmen, is that all income should be taxed equally. You see, all incomes are not equal, they vary from one to the next. When we're talking about capital gains and just ordinary people, ordinary people, they don't make money unless they've paid taxes from the income that made these capital incomes. I had thought to come here to a talk about the big justice issue that is actually addressed in this bill as well as the taxation of vacation homes, as it is legal, in the language of ordinary people in summerhouses. I wanted to ask you why. A senator explaining why. A committee suggests a change in subject, about five years of ownership to seven. It is a very moving subject, I must say, endeavoring to understand the deep evidence behind these criteria, increases over the two years, and what theoretical reflections or findings are behind them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u10	Well, that's the way it is. A senator, who became a summer house, does not mean much anymore. People stay in these houses more or less the whole year. The deep depression behind changes in the number of years is, of course, that there are different viewpoints on this. People have been concerned that some are actually just building and selling for profit or buying and selling for financial gain. This is not to be thought of as some tax gain for them but only for ordinary people who have such homes for their own use but who do not use it for business or for profit. Seven years is a compromise. Part of the committee wanted to go higher. I also pointed out that it is very common for people to buy these assets in their later years and that they may not have had them for very long when they retire. However, seven years are a known phenomenon in income tax laws and guidelines, allowing for a seven - year increase. The thought is to ensure that this is actually a property for its own use, not for the sake of employment or profit. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u11	Mr. President. I recommend no less than 1st, but less part is the one standing here representing the United Nations on the Economic and Business Committee. The bill suggests that the cut-off target of capital tax will be doubled from 150,000 dollars. in 300,000, but also that the payout target will be extended to achieve profits and goods. It is also suggested that the taxation gains of a vacation home should be changed and that there will be permission for the in-use recovery of capital benefits by the review of special savings accounts. - But as mentioned in the speech of the prominent member of the Committee opinion, he suggests that the article on the welfare process ceases. The decision to place money and sales under the holiday market will cost the state's budget about 1 billion dollars. It is estimated that the bill will cost the state budget of about 1.5 in the billions of dollars. it will remain by law. It is irresponsible at these times when the expenses of a government fund grow irreversibly to change the capital tax to this extent. In addition, the default target will only provide the highest rate of 10% of future interest revenues for the impact of inflation. - That. This is an operation that will be of best value to 10%. ▪ The first of my items is against this bill and thinks it's unsurpassed to cut off the weight of the largest banks in the world's largest economic lows for 100 years. The National Association of Iceland points out that it is of interest that the indications are not addressed on the weaknesses of the present system calculated in financial and economic reports as well as in earlier assessments of the tax system. In the United States, individuals are expected to calculate wages that are not less than wages obtained from non-priests and usually not less than the tax criteria. This approach is different from what is known in the Norwegian countries, who have a twofold tax system where non-normal interest is being treated as payable. The current system is encouraged to calculate as the lowest salary, transfer between pay and capital income, and owners tend to overcalculate costs. The increase in possessions is taking place around the world, and many countries we would like to compare with today's looking for ways to use the tax system in a systematic way to counter property control. In view of the combined compression of wealth and possessions, it is important to fight possessions with force. The richest five percent of Icelandic candidates had over 40% of all the money considered to be tax in Iceland last year. The richest 1% of the population had a total of 865 billion. But it is near the entire budget of the Icelandic government and those of the richest Icelanders increased their property by 22 billion dollars. in 2019 C.E. International institutions have stressed that the tax system is the most efficient means by governments in order to bring about an equalizing process. The property of the Icelanders rose by 433 billion dollars. last year. This is considerably less than the increase that took place in 2017 at the time of 740 billion dollars. By 2018, the increase was 641 billion. But in those years, there was the greatest rise in the growth of its own money since the start of Iceland's Haguemad gripping on those figures. The wealth of the population, their property once debt has been reduced, has been reduced to 1.565 billion dollars. at the end of 2010, it will be 5,176 billion. ... forthelastyear. The richest 10% of the population is underestimated, and is far more than the Habitat numbers say. Part of the stock market, shares in national and foreign institutions, is respected for name value and not market value. Real estates are then assessed based on real estate values, not market prices, which in most cases are higher. The highest rate of 1% of people has a tax burden compared to that of other income groups because largely of this group's income is financed and thus carries less taxes than income and pension money, as BSRB points out. There is no strong evidence for the changes presented in this bill in a report to the tax stock capital tax. The report shows that the record of free income targets in 2010 has greatly reduced the impact of inflation and has weighed down the increase in the proportion of capital taxes. Those with up to 6 million. K. Hence, a head chair receives protection from the effects of inflation and pays to the maximum tax from real product. In view of the distribution by tax base, the current cut-off target is estimated to be about 90% of the respondents, or 259 thousand of 292 thousand of the interest figures. An increase in the perks is the procedure that will provide only 10% of the highest interest rate in interest of growing futures for the impact of inflation. - That's why it's not true. More than a part of the Committee's opinion earlier is that this is a procedure for ordinary people, ordinary employees. That's wrong. It's an operation that benefits all the richest people in Iceland. It has been observed that many older citizens who sell their homes well, the taxation of a vacation house. Some people who sell their summer farms after starting a pension may have been caught in a cycle if most of the value of sales comes out as interest. It then lays on 22% of the capital tax, and the pension money from a insurance institution is cut by the cost of the cost, to the extent that the pay for the people falls for months. To correct this, we need to reimburse revenues in the social security system. The solution is not to alter the capital tax for all who are most useful to all the richest people in the country. Reykjavíkurburg sent to the board the indication that it is necessary to review the capital tax laid on rural areas. At the same time, there was a reasonable reason to share in the income of a government fund from a capital tax in which many individuals and legislators who were proselytizing rural services paid little or no taxes to them. 1st will be included in Reykjavíkurburg indication President. We in the United States will vote against this bill. It is absolutely unsurpassed that the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter should contribute it to reduce the taxes on the richest people in the country's deepest economic lows for a hundred years. The cost of this bill might almost be to assist those who have lost their jobs. Today, some 26,000 people are out of work if we take the part-change route with but just about 21,000 people if we skip the part-change route. It is a disgrace, and it is a scandal, President, that the government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir submits such a bill under these circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u12	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his prehistoric opinion of my share of absence. The Economic and Business Committee. Hv. A senator may now have had a stronger word about these things, but I expected them to be, but of course, words weighed. In the discussion of these matters, a former secretary of finance is traveling with a lot of experience in this regard. What matters most is that the nature of the matter, according to the sum of the taxation on capital pay is complex. Part of income is compensation, so it's not really income, it's compensation for inflation, and so forth. Then it may be that in the general property library of ordinary people, there is room to shed in regard to the possession of one property and the loss of others. So there are a lot of questions that arise. What I'm wondering is what I'd like to ask myself. In this regard, how much is the weight on her mind? Is it true that this taxation is the means by which it may be considered just and fair so that it is basically taxing income? Or the timing of this bill is the main problem in the mind of why. A senator because we are in a difficult economic situation? I've noticed, however, that in a party or two. The senator for handling the budget is usually 4 billion or 5 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u13	Mr. President. I can take one example of a operation that costs over $2 billion, a couple of hundred million more than this bill, if it be a law, cost a government fund. It's raising the pension by 15,760. Like the biographer contract assumes that the minimum insurance will be paid. That's one example. Hv. One senator asks if it is not reasonable to tax real income. This bill does not assume that capital gains over head are not taxed by actual amounts. It's not doing that. And why would that be, anyway? Senator? That's because it's just too complicated. That is why other methods are being sought to overcome the idea of taxing physical growth. But as I did well in my speech, those who have a share in their account are 6 billion. K. Protected from inflation with the free market just the way it is. When numbers are analysed, this way is to put interest, interest, and market under the holiday goal, to benefit the richest. [[The president calls.]] I think it's a good thing when we wrestle with an increase in property in this country, like anywhere else, and I think it's important to do it at this time, both of which matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u14	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. The truth is, we do what we do. A senator may not be in exactly the same position on the political spectrum, but we agree on what she did first that the subject in her reply, and it was now my party, the central Party, suggested that the biographies reach older people, and it received the over 15,000 bucks. per month. We both suffered because our suggestions on these topics were dropped. It was the decision of the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, and the classes that are on the government to make that suggestion. In fact, our second suggestion was that single payments that have been decided on toward disability and other groups were to include the elderly or those entitled to pensions, a total of 70,000. They killed it, too. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I think we agree that if we do these things up, profit, and loss and all, in different museums of property, we're called upon to do much accounting and heavy paperwork. I understand that the majority of the committee decided to solve this with one coin. I notice why. A senator will not accept that. To me, however, it is a matter of justice for people, ordinary people who have made savings of their income, that they enjoy minimal justice that they have not experienced when it comes to taxing money. [[The president calls.]] I think there's a little something I need to think about. [[The president calls.]] While it may benefit others, it must not be taken for granted that no more than income is being taxed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u15	Mr. President. The change offered here at a vacation market for capital gain is not going to help ordinary people. That's the richest, richest tithes that get better here. The richest tithe gets a living here from the government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. I think that priorities are predestinable. It's just that way. I do not have a reputation for this priorities in the situations we now live in. I say again, Mr. President: this bill and this proposal by the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, when over a third of the thousands of people are out of work and a large part of that group has to draw life on basic uncooperative benefits, that this case is the priority of the government under these circumstances, a scandal. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u16	A respectable president. I would like to express general pleasure in this matter. As mentioned here in 2017, there was a definite increase in the burden of capital taxation rate from 20 to 22%, which was not a well-founded procedure, which was accompanied by a statement that the tax stock of a taxpayer tax would be reviewed. It has finally been done three years later. Of course, there is always debate about exports, but it appears that there has been a means of avoiding unnecessary paperwork and cost. I especially wanted to discuss taxation on what is called the sale of vacation homes or vacation homes. This has been the issue of the European Union for a very long time, and now finally a mirage for the outcome of this case. Mr. President. In recent years, some farms have become common in Iceland, and thousands of people have built or purchased cottages. This is generally done in order to stay in a peaceful place away from the day's hard work rather than with commercial advantages. In general, such possessions are viewed as a foregone extension of apartment property when the materials work out. A person often goes through two or three apartment purchases and sells - but buys only one vacation home for the rest of his life. Although the purpose of buying in all the majority of people is not to benefit financially from the property by selling cottages, it may be necessary for people to sell the summer house, which allows people to find that the taxing of the stock markets has other rules than those for the sale of houses. On the basis of current laws, the profit produced by selling at a free - time tax service is irrespective of how long the home has been owned by an individual's partner. It is therefore essential that these rules be consistent, so that tax returns from house - to - house sales also take place in vacation homes. Is it to be seen, Mr. President, that during this period of ownership, which, of course, may vary in amount of time, in some cases, has been made up of many improvements and non-registered tax returns every year, ending the home according to real estate assessment. These include improvements and maintenance of any kind, including the expenditures of electricity or hot water, the costs of investments in the ovens, laws, and even hot pots outside the home, in the culture of land, in the construction of trees, or in any other remakes of the house, to name just a few examples. Of course, the cost of such projects can reach substantial amounts of money and affect reselling facilities so that this investment can be reimbursed in higher prices. This happens without the same tax - based profits being reduced. It will not be required for citizens to obtain such expenses, for it is not usually founded because of future possible owners exchanges, nor will it worry that the possible effects on retail prices will result in the sale of the house. The trade of summer houses is largely due to changes in family status, age, divorce, or death, in which the heirs are made to pay their inheritance tax from the home, and then income tax on interest when selling the home, e.g. subsequent change of farming. It may then be difficult to calculate the cost of projects that may increase the value of the house where a legacy is passed. It is proper to conclude this brief consideration by mentioning that there is a justice issue in which the same rules apply to taxation profit from individual vacation homes sales and the value of living in an individual or an individual's estate. It can be noted that when a change in credit law was made, the reimbursement of 100% of reimbursement tax from work in an apartment house, a warrant for his remuneration of work in a vacation home was applied. Similarly, when there was a change in income tax law, the warrant also found work in a vacation home. Mr. President. There is, therefore, a clear example on the part of the Lawgiver to agree with taxation due to housing and vacation living. I will support this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u17	Borist has a letter from the 3rd. We're out of Suðvest. "Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynflfsdóttir, dated today, on December 16, 2020, informing her that she had been on the day and on the day of the Council of the United States at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u18	A respectable president. It's this thing with the disease prevention procedures. It is now in force of Regulation. A health secretary who has the longest duration of exposure to this epidemic. I would like to direct him to the president that he would make time for the council program to discuss the treatment procedures, the ones currently in effect. There is also good reason for my opinion to discuss the progress of vaccination. It would be unacceptable for the council to go on Christmas holiday and that for a month it would not be possible for members of the council to discuss these matters. So I would kindly direct it to a respectable president that he would find this place at the council program in the following days, directing that request for his proper treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u19	The President indicates that for several weeks we have had a regular report on the Covid arrangements or the Covid actions and the pathological measures. In fact, such a report has not been conducted this week, and it actually fell down to the last one. However, it would be a good idea to consider whether we will find a time for such things before the council ends. It was planned that this would happen tomorrow according to a work schedule, in order to be thought to do so. Tomorrow's the last day of Christmas. It will not be reached and expected to be at least Friday will be next. But this will be considered.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u20	Mr. President. I mentioned here a few days ago that I had received an answer from the Ministry of Economic Affairs to a question I asked about selling the highest property at the Bank of America. I received an answer despite the fact that the president took this inquiry and sent it in that direction. I'm not gonna knock this off, and I want to get that checked out because the President promised him he'd look into this case in some way. If this is a final answer, of course, I will not make any changes on the first day of Congress after the New Year. Therefore, I would like to go to the president to see if he had any consideration in this matter and what it has led to.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u21	Mr. President. I'm here on a situation similar to what happened. Last speaker. It was some time ago that there were answers from the highest level. For three queries involved in the number of apartments that have been taken over by two of the state's banks within a given period of time and members owned by these banks. With reference to 57th par. It didn't seem to be possible to answer that. I'm aware that the highest. The president has no right to offer a minister who, of course, is responsible for his answers and all of that. But I may be able to direct it to the president whether he has in mind or even has already checked whether there are any precedents for similar inquiries.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u22	Mr. President. As the president informed them, he intends to have this matter examined, and the matter is now under way. It is not quite simple, however, when it comes to the position that a minister makes a comment that it is impossible to answer or that he does not have a position to answer in the way that the previous officers prayed. They will need to look at some peripheral events in this, including examples and then the pleas that are offered that the query is not answerable. It also points to the General Assembly itself, including the responsibility of the president who prescribes inquiries. It can be viewed as a form of criticism that there was a president who wrote a question that could not be answered. So this view is also being carried out, and it may require that, in some cases, the president be able to take better steps to evaluate inquiry before sending it. Of course, it would not be proper for the General if it were the correct conclusion that questions could not be answered from here. Unfortunately, at this point the president cannot say more than the case is in his mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u23	Mr. President. As I did in yesterday's discussion, there is an important balance, an equality to the residence. In fact, this issue is about equalizing people's prospects for living and working across the country in the scattered areas as well as in urban areas. It's a matter of equations. Of course, the Group of Group members supports this important equality and the main objective of the matter. But I'd like to reiterate the fact that this is a faulty system that we're working on here and it's been known for a long time. That's the key, and I reiterate my challenge to the highest. Prime Minister to provide real suggestions for change and immediately this spring. This case has been in the system for a long time, and it's time to record it and finish it once and for all.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u24	Mr. President. This is where we vote on a very good language to equal it. During the season, the government has placed great emphasis on intensive urban, transport, infrastructure, and fiber - opticization of the scattered areas. This is where we balance energy prices in the country. We're leveling the transport charge on electricity 1st September next year without raising the equation's price for moving, so this is a huge deal of progress, and a major stage in an even national divorce. I'm very happy about this, because it's been a big battle between the left greens and, fortunately, more groups are here at the council and are now making ports.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u25	Mr. President. This is a good step in the right direction for residents in the cold areas of the country, but this is too short a step, too little to take for granted. It is a disgrace that other such horrible discrimination has been tolerated for so long. Finally, the government has a color for the 11th hour. This is effort in the right direction, but it's not the full equation at all. It is always moving in the same direction, and the gap is quick to melt back. At the end of the year, the Landsnet has now proclaimed a 10% increase in distribution records, making this important progress. What's all this about? It can remember 3, 4, or 5%. You need to do better than that. We need a system change. The claim is one currency for the whole country, and it must be ensured immediately. You can do that, but you need to do it, and he's missing from this government. Even if there's some discrimination, I'm on the side of the case, it's a good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u26	Mr. President. Today, we make a remarkable breakthrough in this way of equalizing the injustice of the past. Senators have mentioned, and I agree in a certain way. It can be only our failure that we have been able to survive for so long that a small part of this nation will have to build up the distribution network of rural areas that he inherited as an inheritance in which almost all urban development was completed in its time, not nearly as much renewal as it is needed for a nation that is now moving toward nuclear exchange. By increasing the use of electricity, especially for transportation, we can't afford to control this and whatever the solution will be, which I know to the highest degree. A minister continues to work, and I strongly support it, I agree with what they say: We need a more permanent solution. But let's celebrate this phase today. It's impressive.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u27	A respectable president. Yes, this is an important step. Although it is not near enough perfection, it is an important step in trusting in the land on grounds of justice, in terms of the equation so that restoration supports this issue as it encourages the government to continue building up wood for our people, wherever they stand on the earth.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u28	A respectable president. I truly agree with that word. Councilmen have recommended this important matter. It is a matter of great justice, not just in cold areas, but in rural areas all over the country when this happens. They're talking about that there may be few users at the end of the line, but there are important functions, such as some. in a circuit service where many people are involved, and many are benefiting from this activity. This is a very important step, but it has to be taken further and to the full equation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u29	A respectable president. This is certainly an important step here, and of course I support it. But here in this discussion of the vote, there has been considerable news. I have come up with members of the United States of America and with resurgence to say that it's not far enough, but it's going to have to make one currency for the whole country. Welcome, I say. I've been talking about it for 10 years. I'll give you my word that if there's been a wide range of support at the council that there's one currency in rural areas as well as urban areas, because the access to the resource is the same, I promise you the support of the move team. And I'm going to make a promise to my sleeve that a government team of colleagues will also be ready for that journey.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u30	Is there a national government?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u31	A respectable president. It's a suggestion from us at Resurrection. We took a trip to the highest level. The Minister of the Neo-and-Progressor welcomes at the time, and she's given a great deal of time. Nevertheless, we still feel it is important to look to the groups that have been very badly affected by the natural disasters we are facing today, especially to the restaurant industry, but also to the art and cultural sectors. That's why we're making 15,000 bucks. travel conditions of 12 years and older. We feel that this is really important, so we actually keep people alive, so that our resistance will be as strong and as strong as we come out of this viral epidemic. I urge all of you to support this so as to roll, including... in the art and cultural sector, be as good as ever.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u32	Mr. President. The art and culture have been seriously affected by an outbreak of crown virus. There's been some campaigns to support this sector, but it's obvious that this strategy is very suitable for the art and cultural sectors. This is because, for example, already there are. museums inside this facility. It is also a good idea to encourage people to enjoy art and culture. It's good for our mental health to go to the theater. I'm on it. [[THREE: Hear, hear.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u33	Mr. President. Here's another problem to help those who find it difficult for the Covid pandemic and the biohazardous measures and the like. This is strength, assistance to sports companies, very important assistance, and it is positive that the case changed with the committee after the contractors have taken part in it. However, this does not change the fact that there is not just a particular disagreement but confusion about how the pay-related fees should be met. Are they in this matter or not? It has also been confused with pay-related pay repercussions to contractors. It is hardly surprising to say that this is the case today that most people who are to benefit do not understand exactly what is being said. That's too bad, and I'd like this to be called in to a committee between 2 and 3. ... just so that we can determine exactly who the help is to these groups and preferably get changed so that the pay-related charges fall under the assistance, another story. But the bottom line is that the matter is settled from us so that it is clear to what the foxes are cut to. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u34	Mr. President. This is a very important matter, and it has made progress. The welfare committee, where contractors have also taken action. Rather than leave them behind and leave them at some point in the Ministry of Education for Strength, this is taken into account. But like a dog. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson said just before then, I believe, a mistake on the committee that I suggest changes to allow the pay-related fees to be included in this case, as in other comparable matters, such as. Your resignation. There's the pay-related fees, and they should be here too. It is requested that the case be brought to a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. And then it's just fine. But I encourage those in the board to show some courage and support a proposal that comes from the smaller part, to try it. That's good sometimes because we're not that stupid.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u35	Mr. President. It's a pretty good thing this is going to be. It is important that this vast mass movement meets with thousands of volunteer workers and a few thousand paid jobs. It's important that they get our messages that we're ready to make a living with them like others who've been victimized in the Covid epidemic. So I support this whole matter as well as a council of the greens left. I look forward to accepting the matter between discussions in the Committee if this can lead to correcting the differences and possible misunderstandings that have been discussed here before we proceed permanently.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u36	A respectable president. I would like to welcome the changes that have been made in the case of the Committee where contractors are inserted under the umbrella, as it were. They were criticized, including. by me, in a very specific way to the 1st. The fact that contractors did not agree with them. But there is some misunderstanding about this 70% proportion now being proposed to be transferred from 70% to 90%, and we in the media will support that change. But now that it is established that the matter will be brought into question by a committee between discussions, I just want to encourage some causes. The welfare committee to correct this aspect of the case, for I restitute that this is based on some misunderstanding related to the pay-related charges.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u37	A respectable president. This is where we'll talk about payment for a sports club. This other amazingly good issue, which, of course, is in great agreement, has been found to be that here are mistakes we need to correct, so I agree with the wish that there would be a committee between 2 and 3. We need to cover over and correct minor errors that are found in Article 1. and 6. Other than that, I want to thank you for your cooperation on this subject. Of course, it's always so that people want to do more and more than we are coming here to meet the sports movement, do great things, agree to the movement's wishes that the contractors are involved. Since the contractors are a 60% part of this matter, there has been an increase of more than 60% in the treatment of the committee. So, with the sports movement, the program is being handled with a tremendous deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u38	Mr. President. Here's a proposition for the pay-related fees. I don't think it's the intention of the majority of the council to leave the sport movement behind with pay-related fees instead of supporting them like other companies. It was decided by the government to include the pay-related fees in support of other businesses and other organisations. In my heart, I believe it's some kind of misunderstanding. I think it's part of the team that wants to support the sports companies all the way. It's some kind of thing that you can't support a change that comes from a smaller section. There's no evidence to suggest that. For the greater part, there is no evidence to support this suggestion, even if it comes from the government position. I think it's some kind of misunderstanding, but it's gonna bite at the gym.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u39	The President has to make an issue that cannot be asked for the word to account for his vote after any member of the council has spoken. It will not be left behind on that line.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u40	V.E.G. President. Thank you so much for letting me in. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Thank you. paritaprevir Helgadóttir Vólvóða Helgaóða for the change. I voted against her in the belief that the matter will be discussed again. The issue of this matter is full of solidarity. Therefore, it is absolutely appropriate that the case should return to the committee and be arranged in such a way that everyone understands the issues and the general council accepts pay and pay paid. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Then we can all be together to vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u41	A respectable president. We're here to vote for a little adjustment proposal that sounds very unappreciated, i.e. to add 2020 to the list listed in the bill. This is in line with the fact that there may be some vaccinations in 2020, with this adjustment in mind. How happy we are that a vaccine is on its way and that in this way we leave no doubt about the clear will of the government that there is no doubt that the vaccine users have the guarantees and rights needed to ensure that it is the most widely used vaccination!
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u42	Mr. President. It's with great joy that I vote with this bill because we're making it possible for young men from 15 years of age to change their registration, and as well as be able to change it back if they choose to do it later in their lives. This is also a major legal step worldwide in securing people's special rights, and it is with great pride and great joy that I will vote for this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u43	A respectable president. I come up here celebrating, just like the rest of us. Councilmen, because we are overcoming this matter and that there is a very large proportion of the council involved. Unfortunately, it is not an algreen tablet, as it should be in my opinion in 2020. But I thought it best to mention along the way, after all the discussion that took place, that freedom is not just one thing. There are many different kinds of freedoms. One form of freedom is freedom of the business, which is different sometimes. Here is a step toward increasing individual freedom. I wish the Allied Congress would take more attention to the individual part of Iceland when it comes to freedom in Iceland. There is much talk of freedom in campaigns and political policies, naturally. Freedom is good. But when it comes to the person, the table over there is supposed to be green.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u44	Mr. President. I'm still wondering about these changes, and I admit that in many cases, there are relatively harmless changes, but not all of them. I used the extreme yesterday to discuss the cleansing of the word of a mother from various laws, and especially from the law of the law. A mother is a word that is deeply entrenched in the minds and minds of the people of the land. A mother is someone who gives birth to a child or someone who carries a child. Yesterday, I also wondered about this turn of 192 C.E. The penalties that punish a child's wrongdoing, e.g., distorting the evidence of a father or a son's offense. with false authority report. It is removing the word "fatherly " and" throat " and is replacing it with the word "parenthood. " Mr. President. The word "parenthood " does not replace the words of insult or of fatherhood and reverse the penalty.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u45	Mr. President. Here we return a vote for a bill that is a large requisite, especially for trans-people and sex-involved persons. This is an enormously important issue, for here we are uplifting texts in the law in harmony with the change in language, which is explained by the increased complexity and understanding in the community that families and people, including parental status, are all kinds of people. That is why this is a turning point, and I am very proud that, in much of the time, we are here to back it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u46	V.E.G. President. These three key points of interest to sexual suicide are a major turning point. Children who experience sexual abuse or who give up what happens in general, whether spiritual or physical, are a sensitive group. Studies show that many of those involved are subjected to harassment and even violence, face great hardships, and experience mental difficulties, which, unfortunately, are beyond the reach of many. During this discussion, there have been harsh words of limited intuition, subtle language, and inconsistency, and even the work of healthcare professionals. There is no doubt that such a dramatic decision in a person's life cannot be compared to that of a person. It's not a thought, it's a long process. In this process, many people are involved; professionals, psychologists, psychiatrists, specialists, and social workers are able to forget the most concerned and bring the matter about with care. We are to bear in mind the tolerance and the great values. Life is precious and delicate. Many have tried to put this into words. One said: Life is just a little trembling grass, and that is true.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u47	A respectable president. I wanted to come up here to tell the Generals that this may not be a big case, but here are some modifications to national recording, but this is also a license to publish a global identification number for stillborns after week 22. I'm going to tell you that I've rarely had as much reaction to anything I've ever given to people who thanking for it. I would like to thank the General for the quick payment of this matter and understanding and for stressing how important it is to respect that this individual exists, evidence of it, and to ensure parental rights. As suggested by children born dead after the 22nd week of pregnancy, a committee study the publication of a system ID if abortion occurs after 18 weeks of pregnancy, and this will be done at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u48	Mr. President. As a conquistador of this matter is known to be the origin of an economistic committee that began in 2007. This specific bill is about fair compensation to the disabled who stayed as children at public institutions or through government permission and is part of our community contribution to those individuals. By handing up the bill here today, we show that we take seriously what has been observed, both in the discussions and reports of economisaries, that in many places pots were broken in the equipment, care and well - being of disabled children, who were saved in institutions years before. This bill, which hopefully will be legal today, is a very important stage in that social development. I want to take this opportunity and thank you. A top-of-the-art Board of Education for working fast and well on the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u49	Mr. President. I agree with this bill with great pleasure, and I agree with it as the highest level. The prime minister said that this is a social arrangement and that we take these matters seriously. I can totally agree with that, but I just want to remind you again that there are some things left, e.g. children saved by public members in private homes I'd like to remind the Senate of that. It's not over yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u50	Mr. President. With the changes made at 2nd. in this case, there is an incentive for rentals, which have a large proportion of the retail markets in Icelandic automobile markets to buy eco-friendly cars, 15% of total shops in 2021 and 25% in 2022. If they do not comply, they will have to repay their support with a spell. I think it's important that we do this at the end of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u51	A respectable president. Here we will accept new universal laws on equal positions and equal sex rights as well as the total laws below for the administration of equality. They were generally pleased with their dilation, so they take on people with objective sex registration. A wide variety of discrimination is also required, which is a new recommendation. There is a wide platform in place of an old As Rights Council, which has the same name, where a number of people are meeting for advice on these matters with the prime minister in a professional policy on issues related to sexual equality. These issues are among the many equality issues that the prime minister has proposed for the council and will be accepted today and have been approved. All such matters should be welcomed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u52	A respectable president. The Pirata House supports this important issue. However, I would like to make it clear that there are, however, certain groups that were promised in this hall that they would be equal in protecting their rights from discrimination, i.e. Regression of discrimination against people based on disability and on sexual orientation. They do not have the same strong legal protection as those groups that are now blessed to strengthen their position. Therefore, I would like to encourage the government to act to complete that task before the end of this terms. The promise had already been made, and the promise is to be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u53	A respectable president. The Group of Group members does not have the groundless rule to vote against the government's affairs, but we follow the principles of the matter. We support the two issues presented here. It is a well - worked case, and it's a well-worked case. The work was well done within the committee, so we support this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u54	President. Group of Revelations supports this case. I consider this matter to be rather successful and successful. I wanted to say that the results of Iceland on equality are not random. It was not the time that led us here, nor was it the wait. There were operations and there was a law code. I mention this because I would like a hole in putting up here today of this law if we don't have the opportunity to stand in our feet in terms of the real and material and major equality issues here to be treated during the Senate's final days that are attracted to parental delivery. This is fundamental to the fact that parents have the right to take the worm to defend the right of fathers to be with their children, and the position of women in the professional market. These two matters must go hand in hand, indeed, to be the goal of equality. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u55	Mr. President. We were here happy to support the subject that was planned before this issue. However, we have long had doubts about the guilt laws in this category as well as in others and will therefore vote against this profession rather than a profession, but a legal matter, the excuse. [[Balds of laughter in the chamber of Congress.]] It's a little farfetched to call it a professional. Actually, there are quite a number of jobs on equality, though, which may be equally good. But that's not the point. That's the law. We will sit next to it as a whole because we feel that there is no reason to keep this article in the law as it is said.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u56	Mr. President. I'm not gonna comment on the whole thing. There is the same attitude as for the first, we say on this matter, that this situation is quite successful. Even so, I wanted to flaunt one change that is going to occur as a result of a lawsuit against the grand jury. So in those cases where the Court's Committee of Equal Opportunities is not to be concluded, it has been added here that the suitors will be called together. It's a little like taking the judge from a lower level... through into a court order on the upper level, not a logistic change... but a more beautiful thing like that when the government sues individuals. I'm worried it won't soften the case. The person's experience will be the same when the government draws him to court. But this could lead to such judicial matters, and we all know what the matter is, to increase. That's a worry.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u57	Mr. President. For a hundred years, for example, the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter puts taxes on the richest people in the country. There are now over 20,000 people without jobs in Iceland. Their homes have suffered a massive loss of income. Their case is named, but to reduce taxes to the richest people is put in first place. That, Mr. President, I think it's a scandal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u58	Mr. President. I'd like to share three points with this vote. I support the bill to make it clear, and it's on the committee's opinion. It may be, though, that this is not necessarily the best time to make these changes, but I support them. Then I would also like to draw attention to the removal of two articles based on taxation of custom savings that people deposit in currency. I can't let this opportunity pass me by to mention how wonderful it would be if we had a currency other than a dollar and didn't have to worry about such lengths. Finally, I would like to agree specifically on the need to consider the capital taxes and the rural communities in particular, and that is evident in the majority opinion. I wanted it to come out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u59	Mr. President. Let's go over the situation for a minute. The richest 1% in Iceland earns 35% of the nation's capital income. Let's just get together. Let's take the 5% richest Icelanders, they'll earn 50% of all the money money in the country. 5% owns more than 40% of all clean possessions in the country. It is a narrow group of over 2,000 billion, two Icelandic budgets. Since 2010, this group's property collection has been added to over 1,000 billion, one of the Icelandic budgets. And since that government began, in 2018, the richest 5% has added to 135 billion. There are two Land Hospitals. We'll see exactly where we're going. There's a lot of possessions in Iceland, more than the income balance, and the capital tax system needs to take into account. [[The president calls.]] We're going the wrong way with this, and the numbers show it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u60	Mr. President. Among the changes we are now making are changes that are in line with the findings of the Ministry of Economic Affairs Commission reviewing the building of capital taxes. Inside those suggestions included: to deal with the problems that have been faced, the sales of summerhouses have reduced the pension income and the social insurance payments of older citizens. However, it is clear in the conversion and suggestion of the committee after this change that a cottage such as other older people's property, or all the people, will continue to fall under the 1,200 m3 standards that were once incarcerated. These are positive changes for older people who do not have to be affected by a loss of income, and they need to have had their house extended from five years to seven years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u61	Mr. President. In a historical financial crisis, the government is providing a variety of rewards for the nation's property, including the U.S. that at the same time as more than 20,000 people are unemployed and at the same time as the government has not trusted in raising the pay markets and older citizens or extending the period of unemployment benefits or increasing basics; and at the same time when all evidences of an increase in property balance are increasing. This may not be a strange priorities from the Independence Party study, but it is certainly an amazing priority for two socialism groups and especially for the left green.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u62	A respectable president. The fiscal tax is not high in Iceland, especially compared with the rest of the North countries, where it is usually twice what we have. To increase the cost of free money right now provides a more high priority for the work being done and who are in need of a tax charge or assistance from the State. This loss of income is not for the State either. I can only hear that there can be no more debts, no more money to be spent because the government fund is already in so much expenses. We're not allowed to get any of this money. I don't know why they're in the first place for the people the government is about to throw away. Giveing taxes to those who own it now is a mindless priority. We say no to that law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u63	A respectable president. It is not surprising to hear here from United States and other government groups that people are not to be treated with taxes, even if we are talking about a vacationmark where all the vast majority of the people in the country have their capital incomes under 300,000 dollars. And when people come up here and give their emotional speeches to the richest 1% in Iceland, they're bluffing because this case has nothing to do with the richest 1%. This has ordinary people who have ordinary savings and are free to pay their capital taxes. This is fair business with summer houses, fair business. And this is a good thing because, in fact, we have a vacation target for making money in the social security system. Why should we place great emphasis on taxing the same income that we would like to keep out the damages in our social security? This is a matter for the average Icelanders with their regular savings, and this is a good thing. These are messages that are counterrepresenting the rise in capital gain tax, which was here at the beginning of this terms, and this is a focus change, a really good thing. [[The president calls.]] But it's not surprising that the Conspiracy just can't bear tax reductions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u64	You just turned down the tax reductions we suggested yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u65	V.E.G. President. Contrary to the financial council and the highest. I was not surprised at the fact that the United States alone was against this. That's where the same speech you always hear when you lower taxes: it's just for the rich. As mentioned at the highest. Secretary of finance is this case for the entire population of the country, a free market of 300,000 dollars. This is most of the people in the country. It is amazing to hear from people who are suddenly concerned about the treasure of government, which has been here at the budget of hundreds of billions of dollars. It's going to be 1 billion now, and then there's a big deal about government funds. That's not a credible statement. Free income is a matter for all the public. We're still paying money on income that's not real, but benefits, and that's not a fair tax.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u66	Mr. President. I'm proud of this case. I am proud to stand up to the task of defending Icelandic employees, the Icelandic public, and especially the older citizens who have their own savings. in registered stocks, because the holiday target reaches only to registered shares, not to private partner or any such, and has some savings to banks. It must and has had to be paid taxes on inflation, inflation tax, et cetera. Senators. This bill prevents us from placing in Iceland's common savings taxes, whether they have accounts in banks or stocks in registered stock markets, not private stock markets. [[The president calls.]] $300,000. For the rich as well as the rich, there's no difference. þm. Ágúst Ólafur Ágústsson is of all interest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u67	Mr. President. In the data we worked on at night. The Economic and Business Committee comes in, including until the increase in the holiday target yields only the highest 10% of interest stakes to the impact of inflation. This is shown in the data we're working with. Why can the sales of cottages be a disaster for pensioners? It's because of the cut-offs in the social security system. If it's to change it and to meet a pensioner in this regard, the solution is not to change the capital tax for everyone, which is most useful to the richest people in the country. Then we'll change the social security laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u68	Mr. President. It was fun doing what I did. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason spoke of defending the common people, defending the hired men. I was waiting for him to tell me what's going on. This increase has been shown to be of only 10%. I'm not worried, what. paritaprevir Doves of Níelsson's son, because this 1 billion puts away state funds. We're talking about the fundamental talk of whether we're going to allow the crisis to get worse, whether we're going to shovel under the people who have possessions, and who don't need help, and leave behind, and forget those who hardly have a knife and a spoon. Therefore, I am not surprised to learn that the debate over this vote is primarily between the United States and the Independence Party and the rest of the administrations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u69	A respectable president. I just wanted to correct the facts at the top. Secretary of finance. He said that some members of the council or classes did not tolerate tax returns. This is in a material way wrong, indeed. There have been many times suggested tax reductions here that the Independence Party has rejected for one reason, apparently, that they do not come from the right category. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u70	A respectable president. I'm on this one. I think this is the right step. It doesn't matter where good comes from. We support a good deal, that's our declared method of work and methodology. However, it is evidently of great importance to the government where good suggestions come from, not just in winter, but throughout the terms of the year, has been proposed by the government. Our restoration, which includes innuendos and tax reductions. They've all been cut down. On the other hand, we keep our course and support good things. So I'm saying yes to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u71	Mr. President. I'd like to express my joy in this matter. It has been three years since the percentage of capital income taxes was increased from 20 to 22%. It is now that this adjustment is done by a review of the tax base. Better late than never, very good. It seems to me that there's a moderate, moderate, metropolitan, useful to all ordinary people, to the public of the country, to people who have left behind. I would like to express a special satisfaction that the taking of justice, which is taxing on what is called a vacation house, in the daily talk of a vacation house, is being made in harmony with the taxation of an apartment house when it comes to sales. It's a pleasure. For a very long time, it has been a big struggle for the party of summer owners, and I especially congratulate them and all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u72	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the NTSB's alumnuary Committee... with a change in bill to legalize... a change in unemployment insurance law. The case was referred back to a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. With law No. 44/2020 changes in the law on unemployment insurance were made that the law added a new provision temporarily, requiring the extension of so-called partial reforms. It requires extension of the labour market to apply for unemployment benefits along with a decrease in employment rate without a permanent employer's salary in terms of a decrease in the amount of unemployment. The part-change process first came into force on March 15, but July 1, adopted specific conditions for the employer. Among other things, the law had no law. 44/2020 stipulated that extending the right to unemployment benefits according to the directive was that an employer carry unlimited tax obligations in this country under Article 1 or 2. Law on income taxes, No. 90/2003. Thus, people who don't pay income taxes, according to Article 4. does not endorse income taxes. The majority suggest that remuneration by legislators who do not pay income taxes according to Article 4 or 5. legal on income taxes can apply for unemployment improvements on temporary unemployment insurance laws. In this way, employees living in this area and defending their profits will be only for the public good, and having it as their sole goal in accordance with their agreements, as well as other agencies that run unfavourable jobs made it possible for them to apply for partial improvements, provided they meet the other conditions of the law. With the change, there is a difference. assuming that the public - interest organisations aimed at improving the interests of an unsettled number of people, such as humanitarian and euthanasia, culture, including the field arts that are engaged in poor employment, sports and juvenile civilizations, can use the part-change process to meet the other aspects of the law. According to the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following change: ▪ At 2nd Gr. And a new staff shall be added, saying, A new paragraph shall be added, saying, In spite of conditions 1st. 4 mg. can be used by lawyers who do not pay income taxes at Count 4 or 5. Section 4. the law on income taxes gains the right to pay unemployment improvements according to this requirement, and they meet other conditions. At the time of the application for unemployment improvement at 1. A sentence. The employer should confirm that he meets the 4 mg requirement. as appropriate. Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir and Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson are signing this opinion in advance that they intend to explain in a talk. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this opinion. Signing, please write. Senators Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Árnadóttir Kolbrönnadóttir, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, in advance, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjándótir and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u73	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a committee study with a change in proposal from the memory of the health committee. The smaller part thinks that by the changes made during the spring part-way improvement, efficiency of measures has been significantly reduced. The requirement for the use of the part-back pathway was narrow, and the minimum share ratio for accessation was required to be increased from 25% to 50%. As the requirement for utilisation is that the work ratio has decreased by at least 20 percentage points and the new work ratio is at least 50%, only those with a minimum of 70% work prior to loss of work ratio. The less part agrees with the Economic and Business Committee, which held in the Committee's Council of 212 issue, on the return-of-the-copy that it is necessary to extend the resource until spring, and that it must be considered to re-explicably move the product back to the previous ratings with regard to minimum capacity ratio. Sets the smaller portion so that the minimum service rate will be reduced to 30%, allowing the resources to include those with a 50% or greater employment rate prior to the reduced work ratio. Thus, there may be more payers who do part-time jobs as well as employers who would be able to provide more help in maintaining recruitment relationships. But it's crucial, Mr President, in these matters to maintain recruitment relationships. That's what we're supposed to fight primarily here at the Senate Hall. In addition, the smaller portion suggests an extended period of six months of unemployment. During the following weeks and months, hundreds of people lose their right to unemployment benefits and can go only to rural society for support that is often half as low as basic nonemployment. The population of rural society is already in bad shape because of the effects of the chord virus, and it is obvious that they cannot also take on an ever - increasing number of people who rely only on rural financial support. If nothing is done, the number of people in Iceland who live in poor health is growing. Since the bill suggests an extension of the partial improvement pathway to May 31st, 2021, or about six months, the lesser portion is reasonable that, together with the above change, it will be reduced to 8 mg. provision for temporary XVI in the law on unemployment insurance that pay unemployment improvements according to the part-authorized process would not impair acquired rights to pay unemployment. Is this suggested, just to meet the criticisms with extensions and dilatations that it is advisable not to create in this country twice the unemployment insurance system, since those who are unemployment reformers are going on during a period of rights and not those who enjoy partial benefits. In view of the above, the smaller item suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes listed below and will be more detailed in this committee list. Under this view, the writer of this article.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u74	Mr. President. I would like to recommend the Committee's Communication Act, as we have some changes to the agricultural provision for the continuation of tollovita's tenders. In our committee photo, we run the viewpoint of the reporters who came before the committee and try to make it a complete understanding of what attitudes are being torn down there. The Commission's opinion is about the position in the market that has come up with the product of Covid and the state that the domestic market has dropped, due to the accumulation of goods and the problems facing the sector. A respected president might argue that the problem is older than the state of the virus, but that is not the main element of the bill. We also note that because of this situation, when living supplies build up, grips that do not fit into slaughterhouses, there is another problem that is much more expensive, i.e. that farmers can't get their hands off at a slaughterhouse, and animals continue to grow, and cows continue to grovel, etc., which I don't have to trace any further. But for some time, this will be a problem. There is normal debate over agriculture, and often and often very hot and emotional, when dealing with these measures, e.g. for the import/exports and natural concerns arise, and is well presented in the consumer board's reviews of high prices. Today, we have not been able to have this decree of customs for a long time, and it was designed to better establish the goals signed when a tax agreement was made in May 2017 to reduce prices to consumers. Therefore, my knowledge is that for some time it will be over-important, whether it is due to the production of this country or in Europe, so that my fear of significant increases in prices due to these measures may be controversial, that it will lead to a price gain automatically. We also know of general competitiveness, and we spend a considerable amount of energy on the committee's view of competitive, competitive environments of agricultural products. It has finally been identified by long-term misery, the legal environment of competitiveness, comparing national agriculture legislation with production in Norway and the European Union. A few days ago, the report made by the Institute of Law at the University of Iceland appeared on the job site. This comparison is made very clearly. It makes it very clear that we do not live in the same competitive farming program as other farmers do. It is, in fact, using competitive laws as valid in the European Union to address the problems of farmers in those countries with which they have the authority to simply replace them with fusion, provide cooperation, and provide a very effective market intervention. In this competitive situation, we are. I think that the emphasis in the Committee's section of the Work Board is that the decision to revise competitive legislation is immediate, since it has often been a subject of controversy at the High General and also at the same time in the community. In some way, we need to lead a conflict about this aspect of the earth so that we are comparing comparable things. In many cases, the battle has been around 71 st. The agricultural structure, which is a special exception to the cohesion of dairy equipment, has been made into a special medium, that it is an ostensible source that may not provide the right benefits for farmers and consumers. I think it's time to go in an orderly and responsible manner into the adjustment required to establish a natural competitive environment based on sources that are then more specialized in this sector. The work programme is special in that it has a very long manufacturing process and has the unique position that decisions made today may take years to show up in changing emphasis or change the ways of those in charge of their lands and over their products. A respectable president. I may not go deeper into this point. I'd like to collect one more factor that we nose in our committee party. It has to do with foreign ministers, especially because they have the highest priority. Secretary of state and supreme. Agrienvironmental ministers have begun analysis of the customs contract that has been very discussed in recent years and wills to re-evaluate and ask for their discussion. True, there are loud demands that he simply be turned aside. There are 112 str. The EEA Convention supports these agents. So we have been able to say that we had quite a discussion of Article 112. and sought an opinion on her use. In this case it is not, so in simple terms, it can be applied as such. The Tolla Convention, in this case on agricultural products, where agriculture is not part of the EEA Convention, is made on the basis of Article 19. The EEA Convention is therefore a special contract in this case. However, whether there is a special agreement or not, all our contact with the European Union is affected naturally by its implementation. As shown in the export of seafood products, and the fishing road is not part of an EEA contract directly, we are not recommending such a route to our committee at the highest level. Minister. The way we chose to operate on the conditioned vegetable product in Iceland, where we canceled customs and picked up direct payment, is another school of the agreements we are making. The other school is maintaining toll protection on imports in order to provide domestic production and to increase market diversity. I'm just gonna let me say on this Lord's Day, in the history of this committee, that I think both roads are going bankrupt. I feel that the ideologies of these two routes have come to an end. And why do I say that? Yes, I say this because in both of these schools, or both of these editions of contracts with farmers, Icelandic farmers are not going to pick up an increasing market or they don't seem to have a position to do that. So together, a competitive environment for the Icelandic agriculture and a new approach to these agreements is needed, how we're going to ensure that the interests of farmers and the interests of consumers are placed side by side, how we're going to keep behind the industry by contracts we're going to make. It is in accordance with the opinion of everyone who submitted a review in this matter that the policy should be aimed at defending Icelandic agriculture and promoting European agriculture. Perhaps there has been a change in the discussion of agriculture in Iceland in the last eight or nine years, I'd like to say, nobody's arguing about it anymore. We're primarily arguing over options. I think a lot of people who criticize these paths have a point. I don't want to think that mine is much more right than anyone else. But we need to walk out of this discussion, which meets the viewpoints of those who are concerned. The profession will not live in a violent conflict of right and wrong. We need to agree primarily on which roads are effective. There is in itself much to say about agriculture, and about this bill of the Covid procedure. I'm just going to say, sir, a respectable president, that the adjustment proposed by the committee to extend the period covered by this authority is out of the framework that can be reasoned as a Covid. I'm just gonna say it here. Why do we do that? We may also do this to highlight the growing problem of agriculture in recent years. It is especially due to the customs agreement that we made and have been doing here since January 1, 2018. I'm also going to allow myself to declare it, a respectable president, that I want us to take the change back to the Committee and we won't take it over the second. Because it normally needs to prepare better than we are able to do in the committee's opinion. I'm just gonna be honest with it and I'm gonna say it this way. But then it means that we have to take the farm position far more seriously than we do. We mean what we say when we accept the Contestance Commission's opinion of competitive legislation. That's what we're talking about. We need much more work to deal with the problems and challenges that come our way in the years to come. I'll tell you, too, that I don't believe that the complications have been resolved at the time the bill assumes that this warrant will reach January 1, 2022. It'll take longer, and this will become a bigger problem. In the context that we need to change here the competitive legislation, we need to change the setting around the livestock agreements, and especially to determine if we can live with the customs agreement we have agreed on -- the highest. The minister of state has arranged to initiate a discussion about him, and without having declared that he has requested a formal discussion, I rather hope that it will be done - that we will not be losing our way in allowing this longer-term change in the law than what the Covid argument can do. Let's just discuss this with an open mind, with a clear mind that the problem of agriculture does not solve only this bill and this small change that we make in the way we deal with laws of the highest order. Agricultural minister to accept tenders for customs tenders. I don't know, Mr President, if I can do it for the sake of time, but it's tempting for us to discuss what ideas we could put on the table to change things so that everyone can enjoy it. I have conviction for these changes. In general, I would like to state that I want us to disappear on import clearances. I want import documents to be part of the agreements with farmers and that the protection provided by customs protection is part of the value that the agriculture considers to be a work condition. It means in human language that we will take the protection, the sum of which, as part of the support of Icelandic farmers or part of the work conditions of this sector. We prefer tender expenditures aimed at protecting production and production within the country, but do not allow them to be on the auction market whether or not they can build up the relevant habitats for a considerable period of time, as the arrangement has been for a considerable period of time. In 2007, agrienvironment schemes began at the Treaty Treaty, and the trip grew worse with a customs agreement made in 2017. The bad trip did not start with the GATT agreements and the agreement reached around WTO, where minimum access to national markets was agreed. But for far too long, we have been around the industry in a way that allows more and more to be squeezed, that more and more compensation can be obtained for the entire public in the country by constantly pressing on its foundations. It can also be said that in all civilized countries we compare with ourselves, such sources are worthy of increased import. In an effort to cope with such competition, farmers are tried. This was done in the vegetable contract, but it hasn't worked. The inland vegetable production has yielded as a percentage of Icelandic markets. We have increased during this time, and here are tourists who may have confused this film more than is desirable, i.e. when comparing the benefits and results. A respectable president. I love the matter very much, and no one is wondering what kind of interests I have in my bones, and I'm perfectly familiar with it. But I'm saying with all sincerity to the Senate, knowing very well in this business, that there are a lot of people in this business, like many industry in Iceland today in this condition, and only in many parts of the world, facing a very serious situation. I don't think we can deal with this anymore from some economic school. We have to deal with this in a realistic way, discussing the facts and doing what we're talking about, if we're going to do something by standing behind the Icelandic agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u75	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator's excellent speech. There was much interesting in it, and much of what he said can be said. Clearly, it is. A senator knows well about agriculture, and he does not need to question or question matters in any way. Nevertheless, the bill we're dealing with here is not a good bill, and in my opinion it's not correct methodology in this case. It is correctly described that the bill is going on to improve farms for Covid. So I was very surprised to see the changes in the proposals of the greater part of extending this period by two years. Hv. The senator reviewed the possibility that it might be very argumentative of having done so. Well, first of all, I'd like to ask who. A senator, even though he may have. it indicates, or suggests, whether the greater part will withdraw this motion. So that's really my first question, because I agree with him that this is a Covid operation, it can't be right that it lasts so long and much longer than any other arrangement that has been made for Covid.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm only going to begin my answer to what? To say that the general action we've taken is very difficult for this industry. Whether we talk about income loss, support for business headquarters, or other options we have offered, the nature of farming is not relevant, since this is not a business stop. This is primarily a marketing failure. This is a reduced price. And even though I just gave a senator some sort of redness in his face in the budget, saying that we couldn't put our cows on the part-impliment, we still have a general measure of handling a budget that basically recognizes what I'm saying, that these general measures for the labour market don't work here. Because of what? A senator asks if we'll retract this proposal, I'll say I'm dragging it back because I'm not sure that I have a more serious part of it, so I'll just be honest with you. I'm sorry, I haven't had a conversation with anyone in the greater part, so I suggest that it doesn't come to a vote, we need to think about it better. And the criticism that this is outside the Covid operation is valid.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u77	Mr. President. Thanks again. A senator for an honest answer, and he truly appreciates it. I'm glad it's on its way. But in general, I would have thought that farmers could enjoy some of the arrangements that have already been taken, at least part of it. I can agree that in many ways farmers have special positions, they need to be approached in ways that are in addition to other types of employment. But basically the problem is the same, that's the market problem, I think. However, we also have a restoration, even at the same time. Talk about using methods that are more tailored to the quality of each article. We've been talking about it here at the council and offered many suggestions on the subject, I'm giving specific suggestions on the food field. All the suggestions have been made. But I think people should be very concerned about looking at ways that would be better done in the sense that there were support directly to farmers instead of using such indirect means of deduction, which, in the opinion of very many sources on the matter, are very bad and can cause some kind of open interference. Is it not wise to seek ways that will come directly to farmers but will not go to that end?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u78	Mr. President. In my background, I addressed how agri-environmental environment and competitive environment would be different from what we now know about the word in the countries we are competing with. I'll tell them, unfortunately, we don't have the resources there are, but it would be the resources that would be most useful in the present situation. However, there would probably be some who would not be very fond of those things. Because of what? A senator named the restaurant sector, and we haven't taken any specific action. We have been primarily in general action. The difference is 971 billion. K. which we agreed on in 2nd. Funds for negotiations with farmers who will then be equipped to work with farmers for various benefits. True, I would have liked to hold such measures as the competitive laws of other countries allowing them to operate in agriculture today, as they include. in man's ability to deal with the present conditions. By allowing agrienvironmental minister to select the highest bid in customs, we are primarily creating some space for getting rid of living supplies in slaughterhouses. But I reiterate what I said in my history, when we try to create this space, consumers shouldn't have to fear the rise of prices because of that, because it must be the nature of the market that when such supplies have been gathered here on the land, and in fact, it must have an impact on prices.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u79	A respectable president. I may owe some explanation as to why I answer my fine fellow group member, 1st. Witchest. "Haraldur Benediktsson. This case is introduced into the council as one of the many Covid deals that have been taken care of to deal with the temporary position of various sectors, households and enterprises and in itself nothing wrong with bringing a case that attracts farmers' positions, especially as suggested by the bill. Action should be taken that should be applied this year. The problem, however, with the actions proposed in the bill is that it is completely opaque to the public. They also lead to the defect that others are drawn into these actions, indiscriminately considered by me, more than farmers, i.e. This is not a direct procedure for farmers, which is directed toward a large number of others at the same time. But let it go. Hv. A member of the Committee recommends a section of the Committee that has discussed the matter and has made the adjustment of the proposal to extend this period by two years. Oh, I'm so sorry. A senator and a boy. In these Covid cases, there's a lot of caution to plan on linking this issue so far into the future. But I am very happy, as I explained in my talk, that the matter will be reviewed to a committee and just this aspect revised. But I wanted to ask you why. On the other hand, because he, I also identified it in his speech, admits to the point of view I have, such as, flaunted, that this system may have gone something wrong. I wondered, " Is it possible for him to reverse the whole argument that there are other and other measures to support agriculture than those involved? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u80	The president would like to state that the principle is not to allow members of a group to answer, but since the president claimed to know that these fine party members did not agree with them, he authorized it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u81	Mr. President. I do not comment on whether or not we will share our opinions in the Independence Party in these matters because our independent party is an umbrella of many opinions, and it is our job to deal with them and to reach common conclusions because of our attitude. An officer who answered this question is perfectly aware that we have to resolve these matters and that we are to protect and promote Icelandic agriculture. I know we will. A senator agrees. My answer to the senator's question is no, we don't want to go back, but we don't want to go back, but yes to that, and I was very sincere in my exhilarating speech when I said that it had reached a certain end to the way we were going to do these things, so I tried to minimize the way out of it. On the other hand, this is very sensitive because we're here talking about human beings, we're talking about people and families as financing for billions of dollars but today with huge debts on their shoulders because they decided to take the stroke because they decided to build up because they decided to get new technologies to lose their jobs and to improve equipment. The main investment in Icelandic agriculture in recent years has largely been investments, investments in animals, but it remains a huge debt in very many homes and almost unbearable many, and it is the big change in Icelandic agriculture from what used to be, how much money it has become. I know we what we're doing. A senator will talk about finding an adequate solution and establishing a new policy for the application of Icelandic agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u82	A respectable president. In order for that to be maintained, I will not support any adjustment. The senator here recommended this lengthy support with reference to Covid. But my question also went further because I wondered whether it was. A senator could not see it, or can agree that the way it is recommended in the bill itself, whether it is one year, three years, or four years, is designed to drag on a long revision that must be done when it comes to supporting agriculture, wanting to support the agriculture, of course, but I think most people want to do it in some way or very many at least This review should, of course, be aimed at making the support much more beneficial and more direct and, as mentioned here, in a counter-reference, direct to farmers themselves, not to all intermediate groups, or, if we can say so, to innocent road users in this system. I wonder what. A senator can shed some light on whether this bill, as it came into the council, would not be a bit of a bear in these matters about farmers, and would it not be better for the bill itself to rest, and for the next few weeks, he would have the opportunity to expand some other kind of service to farmers in particular with Covid.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u83	President. I have no problem answering these questions. A senator, for I have to say that in later times, I felt that she did not really know what we're doing in these matters. We don't have any support for an intermediary in the country. We have farm contracts based on the direct support of the production process itself, and I'm not going anywhere further into it and saying that the Senator is mistaken, I rather believe that this has been a failure on the tongue. I just agree with what. A senator that we should, and I've told it several times before, to follow a new trail, but whether this bill is accepted every year, I feel like-- I just have to say that I feel that this bill is a sign of how incomprehensible we are in legislation on the working conditions of the Icelandic agricultural world. I think it absolutely crystals here that we have neglected this industry for a very long time. I'll be absolutely responsible for what I am in that regard. We began overproduction in the country from 1980 onward, we cut down in rural areas, and we increased farmers. They have built up again and are now dealing with a variety of projects. At the same time, we did not hold on to some of the supporting factors that agriculture needs, and the problem of dealing with this issue today is, for example, the most poverty in Iceland. Just what's the real deal, what are the agricultural economy really? We are poor of them, and it colors all decision - making in the affairs of this sector.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u84	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend my workload of employment committees with a change to the bill for the change in agricultural products, No. 99/1993, the disposition of topotecan. I'd like to say at the outset that we are living in unprecedented times, as we have often seen, and then we need to make bold decisions. It has also been observed that this is the case of Covid, and the government's actions are taking steps to meet the conditions in agriculture, in the collection of supplies. Have we ever agreed that this is a step in the right direction but would have liked to take a bigger step, and it will be explained by the committee party I am about to read and to the adjustment it has made. It has become apparent that there is a potential problem with land. The increased import of domestic products produced abroad under conditions other than the EU has narrowed the markets, and a pandemic chorvirus has still added to the current problem. The demand has been greatly summed up as a result of a reduction in the number of tourists and government treatments. Thus, sales of meat have fallen by 9% in the past three months. In addition, a reduction has been observed in domestic dairy products trades. In addition, food supplies in farm animals and in supply stores of the Marketing Authorisation Holder are being piled up. The serious consequences of a pandemic crown virus, the increase in foreign imports, a fragile toll project, and the proposed supply of tollovata require urgent action on the part of the government. There will be measures taken to prevent more meat from entering an overcrowded market, with a related price crash on the manufacturer's meat. Icelandic agriculture needs to be protected, and its many valuables are the result of society. When compared with farms in the neighboring countries of Iceland, especially Norway and the European Union, it is clear that there is a great difference. Icelandic farmers have lost their priorities in government. In neighboring countries, governments have far more authority to act because of the temporary disturbances on the market. For example, in Norway there are farmers and crops of sales with the exception of competitive legislation, and the European Commission has much authority to take action that enables farmers to improve cooperation. Then, for the pandemic, these countries have taken on extensive support measures, including the following: 1st Farms are available under current conditions up to 100,000 euros, or some 16 million dollars. 2. Farms offer a favorable loan of up to 200,000 euros, or about 32 million dollars. 3. Due to the imbalance of agricultural markets, temporary discharge has been implemented from European regional competitive policies. In view of the smaller parts, more and more measures must be taken than the bill indicates. The central category has provided detailed suggestions for promoting agriculture as an important production sector in the country. On November 5, the head of the Central Party recommended a proposal for the resolution of domestic food production and a safe and predictable agricultural environment. The proposal suggests that a prime minister be assigned to implement 24 agricultural measures in consultation with farmers. Among the aims of the proposal is to ensure large - scale domestic food production, provide food and food security, provide environmentally healthy and nutritious food, rely on farms, increase in sustainable and environmental quality, preserve knowledge, improve research and agriculture education, increase understanding of the importance of agricultural production and preserve land quality. According to my share, the situation today calls for rapid action. In order to combat the negative effects of the pandemic, it is necessary to avoid the spread of tollovata in the first part of the next year. Therefore, the lesser part suggests that the subsequent year's distribution of tollovata will be temporarily postponed as long as the measures are taken to clear the situation and prevent the long term consequences of over-exploited farms on the domestic manufacturers. The head of the ship of a working group which must make recommendations on how to curb the environmental impacts of the epidemic and when to advertise tollovata. The smaller section suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: Then there will be a new article, as follows: The law adds another provision temporarily, as follows: Despite the regulations of 3 mg. Aug. 65th, No. 99/1993, the secretary shall postpone the advertisement of tollvota for 2021 until the decision-to-be-or-be-registered personnel suggest when to advertise to tollovate. The task force shall also provide suggestions on how to address the negative effects of a pandemic chorvirus on domestic food production. So many of them were in this committee's program and were proposed. I'd like to say for a second, top dog. President, as a result of the proposal to postpone invitations on customs, people have been concerned that we are not having a deal with the European Union. When the person standing here and those who have recommended this case have referred to Article 112. g. The EEA Convention says that the agreement needs to be viewed, and it can be agreed with that. But only now has the European Union declared a state of emergency itself. It is possible to quote the European Commission that he has declared a state of emergency and that they have responded in their countries in a comparable way to what we are suggesting in the Central Party for Iceland. If they were to become unhappy, if this proposal became a law, it would be no more complicated than to call a meeting on the EEA joint committee, to adopt the case there, and then there would be a solution. I'm not worried about it, and I think Iceland and I would get along well with this discussion because of the declaration that the European Commission has issued on emergency conditions in the European Union. The result would only be positive for the emergency and concern over the mutual agreements. A number of points were presented in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Here, the son of Haraldur, the son of Benediktsson, in the matter of competitiveness and the discussion of the committee or the agency. I can totally agree with that. A senator is hoping that it is in our best interests, our agriculture, the suggestions being discussed there. But this is a problem, an emergency, and must make bold decisions, so I hope that we councilmen and politicians at the Council are ready to agree that this step must be taken, to postpone an invitation. I'm not going to have my case further in the meantime.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u85	Mr. President. I'm coming up here to answer what's happened. paritaprevir Sigurður Jónsson primarily because of the adjustment he and his companion, Ísleifsson Isleusustsson, the members of the court. Work committee, motion. But I'm going to start by saying that I feel that I have a good way of putting together a description of how farming is being carried out in the European Union and what measures are being taken there. It's quite fine for us to compare it with what we've been doing here on the land; I'll just be completely honest with it, so I'll take a word that's relevant to this discussion. I traced to my frontnote address that we had examined Article 112. because it was pointed out in the comments on the subject. We were in such a state and sought advice on these matters. I also explained that the nature of the toll agreement was in that it was an independent agreement based on Article 19. The EEA Convention, which should be 112. gr. in itself, not as I understood it. Now I have every reason to worry about it. I don't have a law-trained man. I'm just a B.A. I'm asking why. A senator whether he's concerned about this, where the proposal actually goes on to propose a contract violation, that we're threatening the rest of Iceland's business interests because of such a change in proposal and because we've asked for a review of a tax agreement, and then we start by breaking him ourselves?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u86	The president wants to point out that. A senator needs no inferiority to having no law degree because farmers have been the best lawyers in Iceland for centuries.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u87	V.E.G. President. I'm going to start by saying that I forgot to mention in my history that those who sign this committee opinion are, of course, the one standing here. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson. We're on the committee together. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson for his answer. He's asking for concern about the violation of a contract. I traced it at the end of my speech earlier that I wasn't concerned because the European Commission has declared a state of emergency in the European Union or in agriculture there and they have taken action. If the European Union thinks we're stepping outside the box, we'd just be called up for a meeting on the same EEA committee where we could point it out. Consequently, the integration of the treaty would not be a threat. I'm not a lawyer, anyway. Senator. I learned electrical activation sometime in the middle of the last century, and since then I have been a sailor for many years. But there are many very great jurists in many of the bait showers, so I can have a good right behind in the Alllian ponta over it. But I don't have that kind of worry. A senator asks about.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u88	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his answer. I wish I had such conviction. A senator and could just talk as I know farmers would like to hear. I wanted to, but I won't. I won't allow it because we're responsible, and it's a responsibility to promote treaties. Our business interests are much larger than ours, much larger. And we have an example to show that on the basis of the EEA Convention Iceland was threatened by the export of marine products or by cut-offs. This was done around the year 2000, when in a certain way we were forced into the food directive. And that was all on the basis of a seabed. I just have to say, a respectable president, that it is the fact that the interests of Icelandic agriculture have long been sacrificed for the interests of the seas. It is taking greater interest in my interests. I'm sorry, we haven't had political effort at the Council, no matter what category it is, to actually stand behind Icelandic agriculture and let it grow and grow stronger. We've taken a long time since we've squeezed out of Icelandic agriculture. He's patched himself up, producers have made more. They're producing more food, and the food is popular. I'm not going to swallow it, either, because the Central Party is some special, emancipating angel for the Icelandic agriculture and just saying what they want to hear. [[The point is: What kind of confusion is this?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u89	V.E.G. President. Speaking of feelings of inadequacy, I have to admit that I felt her only in answer to what happened. Senator. I just don't know what it's like. A senator may claim that a violation of the contract is involved when I earlier said that the EU Commission declared a state of emergency and that emergency measures were taken. Now, I just want to read a text I had written down because I was expecting this question: Some people might criticize a reference to 112. g. The EEA Convention, which is critical, is based on many opinions of misunderstandings, if the EU considers the use of 112 gr. The EEA Convention is not justified. If the EU has concluded by its declaration that an emergency situation in farmers is being adopted by the European Commission, where people are trying to figure out a solution. That's all I'm worried about. And speaking of the Central Party wanting to talk like some heavenly guardian angel over agriculture, I don't want to agree with it. But we want to protect agriculture in a way that will benefit us. Farming is a real problem, and we live in unprecedented times, and we need to make bold decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u90	A respectable president. It has been interesting to hear here the talks and objections of members of the council. But in view of this case, which I don't like very much, I'd like to say that the actions of the government that are being proclaimed in this matter are of no use to farmers, not directly, but less so to consumers, but afterward I will. I feel that governments are misdirected by their actions. Nevertheless, I must say that I have enjoyed listening to this discussion. I have to say, I also have every hope that we will end this course. I have sometimes felt that certain groups are in a race for who is the best friends of agriculture, and the greater the seas and the media, the better for farmers. There is a big misunderstanding. However, I would like to make it clear, and I realize that it is not necessarily good for the independent council members to receive commendation from a Re-Elector, much less, that I expect much of what was presented in a sermon. paritaprevir The Haraldur son of Benediktsson, who spoke here with passion, knowledge and experience, and in part bitter experience, as did many of us in politics who observed matters in this field and worked within it. What I'm going to take out of my discussion, and I'd like to say before I get to the case by myself, it's an unambiguous support for the Icelandic agriculture. The harmony is something we should use. We're supposed to listen to the voices of experienced people in the field, including consumers, inside the store and then, of course, here at the council, because no matter what people say about us, we are blessed in that sort of community, and so we have members, at least even now, that it is short for people to arrive at their senator's clock, take the lead, take the phone call, send mail, send messages to communicate viewpoints, messages, messages, messages, messages, and criticism. A lot of what I get to hear is related to Icelandic agriculture, but I'd like to say, even though the voices are different, the beautiful thread is everywhere we want to help with Icelandic farmers. But it just does not matter how it is done. Therefore, we need to learn something from experience and see how we can do so. We've been through a series of times during the trip, including the rest of the year, and we've said it a lot of times. ... inthisest term. That's why I'm happy for it. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson came in and I think we should take it further, i.e. reviewing the agreements, toll agreements, and other contracts made in the interest of farmers, and evaluating these agreements and making them part of treaties with farmers. We have already said, "Let's consider customs protection. " Let's keep it smaller, because with more competition in agricultural products, it's always been shown, and we can see it from the cost-conservation of ASI and the prices of the Habitat and others, where the price is lower and the variety is higher. And with less competition, the price is higher. That's what we're looking at. I understand the fear of farmers because of their high imports. It's an old story and a new one. They were experienced by the Icelandic furniture manufacturers, e.g. when we walked in EFTA. Then they had to adapt to a new and changed reality. It was then said that the Icelandic candy market would fall off, etc. They adjusted, it was a economy, but it led us to see also another and a greater selection of goods in Iceland, both foreign and foreign. Does this apply to Icelandic agriculture? Partly. However, we need to secure food production here, and we need to prepare the environment for them to support their markets, to care for their local markets, and to take into account the environment. There we have a device that we should use to further support farmers. We will ask, when it goes on a new year, that we put in green motivations that will be used as farmers to connect more closely with the climate but also to give them greater freedom within the framework as possible. Let's hear this happy union that we're supposed to be supporting agriculture, supporting farmers. At the same time, we have to take the position of farmers seriously, and there have been others here today. Of course, the situation in agriculture is not good. There are certain farmers who now have what is most difficult, especially sheep farmers, who at this time have been by the side of the sector that has become a form of resistance throughout the country, all of which is travel. So in certain areas and areas, there are great challenges. We have to face it. I agree with that, saying: A restoration is to go to a wide range of jobs to build up Icelandic agriculture and to have this view: Icelandic agriculture, Icelandic consumers. It is the same as a combination. Let us try to strengthen that view. On the other hand, we clearly have a different view of things, and this is made clear in the eyes of the Middle Party and his proposal. Once again, I'm going to praise him. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, who is definitely in the truth for coming and saying: Yes, we need to put more interests ahead of memory. That's what we need to do. That's how politicians have got to have the balls to talk. No, it's not. There is no answer to Hum and ha, and that is an unsurpassed answer for our clients wherever they live in the land. That the presentation of the Central Party is in a way of offering to disrupt our business contracts, I just don't think it's acceptable. I think it's the smell of this race for who's the greatest and best friend in the farm. We should be beyond the fine, positive appearance and positive desire for farmers and a positive desire for the public in Iceland to become a peasant class for political parties. That's why I'm warning you about the way the Central Party is going. It is contrary to this fact as it is suggested, but I have a clear understanding that we put up with ideas to strengthen farmers in these difficult times, such as people in other trades, but not least of them, a major drop in consumption, especially in the restaurant business. Even if the shopping business has not gathered so much, the restaurant area has collapsed, as we know. The restoration has provided suggestions to help support the food field. So are we ready to do about farmers. That is why we suggest, in order to tackle this temporary situation, that is a temporary disaster now for farmers as well as others, that agrienvironmental ministers be assigned to expand direct concentrations to farmers according to the conditions under direct payment for farmers and those who meet certain requirements. We fear a great deal of the way we are going. Good to mark them moved to the highest. A year ago, when the law was changed toward a small amount of freedom, a farmer's speech was excellent, but it was changed, and that step matters. Even though it took a minister more than two years to change the program, the law was changed to increase freedom, or, as a minister said then, so that consumers could benefit from it in the form of prices and small shops with a more reasonable environment. The agricultural trade environment was increased and improved a year ago. But from now on, walls are being built. Most of the consumers and the impact this would have on the market warned about this methodology because it would affect consumers and homes. And most important today is the situation in which some 25,000 people are out of work, which is of great importance to such government actions, which have such an impact on the homes and consumers of the country, which lead to an increase in the food basket, and especially on the worst population. I reiterate that we are offering a suggestion to support farmers. But we do not want to go along with the way here because it is bad, we fear it, and, in fact, the scheme draws near. This was mentioned, but the matter is actually being called in between 2 and 3. It was not to be thought of as temporary resources, it was to be extended to 2024 - to 2024, showing that governments and government groups were going to take advantage of the situation, taking advantage of circumstances to sustain and return to an old - fashioned and out - of - date system. The Great Depression of the past century taught us that when nations try to cope with economic events by increasing customs in order to protect domestic markets, it will lead to progressive business practices, but more often it will reduce the international market and may extend and deepen economic crisis. That is exactly what happened in the United States. The work increased the economic crisis by seven years because walls were built. This is exactly what the restoration warns us about. Let us take other steps to protect and strengthen farmers in this regard. We should therefore use our bones to strengthen us, motivation us through green incentives to strengthen our farmers, not through customs. That's where our emphasis is. I must also say that it made me very sad when I saw the coverage, the case on the part of the minister and the Ministry, that the rules of handling that the government itself has taken in regard to the contribution of the bills were all broken. It also tells me that people are exploiting the situation. It also tells me that it should be run through, regardless of everything, because we've been feeling pressure from stakeholders in agriculture. It's not the farmers themselves, it's the products, it's the middle crew. The review of the Contestant Commission makes it very clear that this operation is deeply concerned. Nowhere does it show exactly how it uses the farmers directly. Rather, it is primarily for the products, and we are not meant to have such hide and hide like that. On the other hand, we must not forget that the maintenance of farms against the products is shrinking. Their effect is contrary to their own detoxification. For example, farmers, sheep farmers, especially last fall, have deteriorated. I also remember that when the slaughter began in 2018, the product price was presented a long time later. The defenses that once served as a paradox are always leading to a higher price, not a higher price to pay for farmers. That's what this does. We saw precisely 2017 when a difficult situation was being carried out - indeed, some of the local senators tried to pressure the increased export responsibilities, which would mean nothing more than the Icelandic consumer subsidies'payment on agricultural exports, which was better prevented. However, these difficult conditions in agriculture at their time, and which are still, have brought up the challenge of farmers'situation in response to the deforestation. And what happens when farmers themselves intend to use their own survival efforts, which they are so fortunate to do, namely. being observant in how to make use of the raw materials and products for innovations other than the crops itself? Then the remuneration costs are raised by deforestation, so farmers have to pay more for slaughter and make less money in order to prevent competition. I share this concern with the Contestant Board, and I'm glad that there are others in the board of directors who share their concerns. We're here to make use of the harmony that has been presented, including the following: in the above discourses to see how we can strengthen the status of farmers in response to the deportations so that their situation will be stronger, and they will be at higher prices and will have more confidence in their business. We need to create opportunities for farmers to make room for themselves. In the EU, fusion is permitted, specific compression is permitted, but with very much extramarital activity and a conversation between farmers, consumers, commerce and the government. There are very strong fusion rules that exist, and very strong competitive principles are maintained, requirements, and points, and put in so that, eventually, they are creating space for smaller dairy products and tend to feed farmers so that they can actually use their competitive rights, for farmers' status can be strong if they have a position to use the competition on its part. But I feel that the way of the ruling parties is primarily to cool and warm from the side of the decommissions. They can no longer hide and say: We are owned by farmers, but they have no effect. If there was some phone calls and conversations that I had in 2017, the short time I was a agricultural minister, and the conversations I've had since then, were about exactly what farmers have complained about, that they have no effect on those we often call "traveling." We have to face this. That's exactly what we're supposed to take. I spoke of the procedure in this case that the government has used. The Ministry itself broke all the rules, did not agree. I asked all those who came: "Did they consult with you guys? ASI replied: No. The consumer movement replied: No. The U.S. Governing Body answered: No, no, no. There is no competition at any table for the government party. And I'm not even going to talk about the trade organization and the services and the Favour of the professional drivers. There is no consultation with that party, but neither is the consumer organization, not the ASI and not the Contestant, which I would have thought was on the checklist of every government and any government. But without the best interests of farmers, much less consumers, this is the conclusion, of building toll walls, and of running for what is being called a strain. I just don't think it's acceptable in 2020. I'd like to have said here before. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, gave his speech, that it could have been trusted that there would be a free trade, such as other freedoms during this terms, that there would be no wide support for these factors in the Independence Party. But I'm going to let myself soften this expression and say that I'm much more hoping that men will see themselves and stop this case, take it back as soon as more of it and the committee examines the date, which I know is sitting in some council members because it reveals so clearly how it is being used in this case to press on to the interests of consumers, to increase customs protection, and to promote customs barriers. At the same time, I hope the committee will see and wait on this matter and take direct action for farmers immediately. We have shown that we are quick to resolve such cases, the opposition to government, the restoration, and the ability to handle such matters. We have demonstrated that we have been resourceful. We have provided solutions, many of which have been dropped, some have been agreed on, to deal with the urgent problem of Covid due to the virus. We have shown this with our proposals for restaurants, for artists, for tourism, and we want to and have also offered our suggestions for farmers. That is what we need to do. We need to handle the serious situation of farmers. But this, a respectable president, is not the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u91	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for a fine talk, his great faith in agriculture. But there was one thing that set me on fire to come up here, and it's an amazing trick with the European Union and to play with everything that's foreign when it comes to Icelandic interests. It's amazing to listen to what's happened. Councilmen, whether in the Archipelago or in the Independence Party, claim that we cannot even apply the agreements that we have signed. How so? Congress officials are afraid to use e.g. Section 112. The EEA Convention? What does that fine article say? It says that under certain circumstances appropriate safety measures can be taken in accordance with the 113th paragraph. The contract, if there are serious economic, social, or environmental problems. What else is this thing we're dealing with today? People are shaking on their bones because of the European Union, although it's in the contract that we can only refer to it. I don't know if the Norwegians were referring to this contract when they took action to protect their agriculture in the time of the Korean epidemic. They had the courage to do so. The European Union took action to protect its agriculture. Then we don't have the guts. We are not even respecting the agreement, making use of the contract we signed. Of course, we are to take action now, measures that protect and strengthen our agriculture, just as everyone else is supposed to do. That's why the Middle Party proposes. That is why it is presented in this way, even to protect her from being revised by an arrangement. V.E.G. President. I didn't mean to ask, but what? A senator set me on fire, and then I come and inquire about the changes as well. A senator has submitted.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u92	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. Yes, I believe myself when it comes to agriculture. I think it's important to support Icelandic agriculture, so it's totally clear. However, I don't want to do so by using some of the tools that, historically speaking, have always led to a depth of depression. All economists, all experts, have said: "Don't raise customs barriers and increase customs protection, rather use bone protection. That's where I'm looking, that's where we should go in strength. We're supposed to be motivated by agriculture, and especially now it's very easy to calculate and go directly to farmers and farm equipment to cope with problems caused by Covid. Like the 112th floor, there are defenses. and, of course, we Icelanders are supposed to be able to apply that rule rather than go on some political race based on views, such as is prevalent in the Middle Party. They're actually in my opinion of using virtualism because they don't help agriculture, they don't benefit from local society, they're presenting the contract at this time because we can just as the European Union has to take action, and it's absolutely accurate, the European Union has taken a very important measure of action, fine. We're supposed to do the same. But we're not supposed to increase customs protection. According to a report published by the Ministry of Employment and, in fact, by the Department of Professional Railroads. The community was on the verge of protection in Norway in 77%. In fact, they have not changed anything about customs protection now. They've only gone straight as we're calling. Iceland's toll protection is 74%, slightly smaller than Norway. In the European Union it is 4%. The European Union did not go up customs protection, raising customs barriers. They went to mascha, direct strength to get them straight to farmers, not in the middle, as if the Central Party were merely focusing on, not looking straight at farmers and strengthening them to keep their production going. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u93	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u94	V.E.G. President. It is written into the contract that we can apply this security device to 112. gr. When necessary, in situations that are right now, and we should, of course, do so. There's no race in it. It's not about anything like that. It's all about taking advantage of the contract we have because the circumstances we live in are in this way. But changing the motion of a senator. It suggests making money directly to farmers. Fine. I can totally agree that we're supposed to make more money for farmers. But there is no amount in this suggestion. A senator or her party. Then I'd like to ask, because she's so busy with the middle people that I completely disagree with. A senator, it's not about the middleman: How does it help the farmers to pay them money when the problem is that they have too many animals and that they don't get them killed? What will money do to help? What do farmers do in reducing their abundance and supplies in the country? How does that solve the problem? Increased supplies, high supply standards will ultimately lead to lower prices for farmers. Therefore, the supply needs to be worked, whether in store or in warehouses or simply by the animals waiting for food supplies, by farmers, to get into slaughterhouses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u95	A respectable president. We'll be clear. The company wants to go to customs, they're clear, they want to go where they preach and want to go. upset Iceland's international contracts. I'd like to agree with what's been said... that we have to weigh the interests in the overall context... and I don't think that they're going to serve the interests of others. If we are going to go, this contract will be blown up because we can solve these matters in another way, by strengthening farmers directly. What we need to do is strengthen the position of farmers in response to the exits. Join us in strengthening farmers to their delinquency. Doing so is of utmost importance. Regarding the sum of money, the thought is simply that we merit the protection of the bill. It is very difficult to find, and there are experts within the Ministry who can do so. However, it is easy to determine which direct payments have been made in prayer and to calculate the strength from the viewpoints and knowledge there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u96	Mr. President. I'll let me come up against what. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, the daughter of Gunns, starts there with the dog. A senator concluded in his later answer: Has it been. Does a senator have any idea of how many billions are needed to extract from a government fund in this way to pay toll? Then I just want to say for her speech, because in part, she made my headlines a subject of talk, that Icelandic farmers have no feelings of inadequacy, they just want similar conditions. And I'll blow the fact that we're here again and again using the furniture sheets in this relationship, as I call it. I'd like to ask who, too. A senator who served as minister of this legal class for several months: What suggestions did she have that applied to the message presented here? I must say, a respectable president, though it may be rude and I try to cultivate courtesy, that there was nothing here, and there is no news.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u97	A respectable president. I was betting with myself now. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson would be in this situation, for it is uncomfortable for him to receive commendation from wooding ground when it comes to farming. This answer reflected, however, when he says that there is no news, that good and good, he does not consider it proper to make use of harmony and harmony from this council. In case of a moment. A senator who opposes me wanted to listen a little. [[For example, consider this: He's probably listening.]] Then he's the first man who can do things at once that I know. What I'm saying is that we should use the harmony that exists here at the council, and obviously we should. A senator does not want to do so because he feels uncomfortable listening to the fact that he or she says: Yes, we should be strengthening farmers, we should do so with the right motive, green motivations, linking in a way other than to be the hod off products. paritaprevir Now Haraldur the son of Benediktsson has become a good spokesman, but just now he spoke the language of farmers. He has to make up his mind. Clearly, the present system does not serve farmers directly. As to this, my conversations with countless farmers throughout the years have called for the halting of the economic capitals. You come back up here again, and in the end, it's always the same thing: you can't interfere with anything. I find it remarkable if the Independence Party, although I have begun to hear some skeptic talk that I am about to see what is going to happen, is going to preach toll protection and customs as a solution to everything instead of simply having it more transparent and in the form of a bone strengthening, as we are doing in Reunion. It's all in the same book, people come up here and say something really nice about freedom, and then there's nothing serious about it. Most painful of all, this will never be useful to farmers. This favor is being used to the farmers, the beloved people of the nation, but it is always a place of old out - of - date systems that do not serve consumers and much less farmers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u98	A president still reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u99	Mr. President. I made it clear that I was being rude and prayed in advance about it. All I'm saying is there's a new proposal with no amount and no method. That's why I said that I don't feel much about it. I also asked what suggestions we have. A senator would have moved to these matters when she was serving as a agricultural minister. I also asked him which way. A senator saw how many billions it must take from a government fund to turn customs protection into direct payment. I think it's important that we draw them up on the table. Then I'd like to say, Mr. President, just because there's some debate over customs in the U.S., that brought a crisis, it's not acceptable to put Iceland into some kind of relationship with that which has some of the most liberal business policies in the Western world. Freedom does not dwell in a bulldog, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u100	A respectable president. With the last comments, it's just equipment, whether freedom, if we're looking for it, is not all there is. I have this hope, and I refuse to quote historical experiences from countries that have gone through major and severe trials, as deep a crisis as we are experiencing now, a very difficult crisis, that crisis was actually deeper, when the International Business Agency was founded on the very foundation that it was built walls that had very deep and bad economic consequences, especially for the public and low-payers of the country. What suggestions did I offer as a minister? They were long ready when the modern minister arrived. They were on the table. It took more than two years to promote freedom proposals. And if any. A senator has forgotten that it was a government that exploded before the fall council came together. [[The president calls.]] On the other hand, I was working to protect myself from the fact that the members of the Independence Party could violate export duties that would cost millions of dollars to the Icelandic public and the Icelandic consumers hundreds of millions of dollars. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u101	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, for her speech, which was in a rather familiar area of her study. The Senator got a lot of talk about freedom, green advantages, climate issues, and other things about agriculture, and we should be sponsoring the agriculture. I don't quite understand what the Senator is doing when we're talking about emergency procedures. She's talking about our superiors in the Middle East, which I can't agree with. Very well with direct strength and all, as the European Union has been doing, but meat supply will not be improved by direct strength. It's a matter of getting goods public before the problem gets even worse. This is an emergency and we are offering a proposal to respond to the emergency in Iceland. And then we can talk about how we're going to make and deal with the agriculture in the future. It's all friends of the agricultural industry, but when this situation is up, and we're in the middle of the company having a procedure that's gonna work, we're said to have an invitation. I just don't agree with that. Hv. A senator was talking about the strength and other activities of the EU. They have also talked about such freedoms from competitive rules. I'd like to ask, "What is the senator afraid of about 112? " The deal she's talking about the Central Party is breaking this proposal? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u102	A respectable president. It has been observed that our customs contract we are at the same time. This, directly and indirectly, affects not only agriculture but also other sectoral activities, including fishing roads. It's been made clear that when we're applying, we're going to use 112. If we throw the contract into the air, we might as well have charted what interests we are facing. I don't see in the Central Party's proposal to map out what interests might be worth if we put the deal into the air. I can even see. no emphasis on fishing and how this would affect our export products and valuables. We have to be careful about this kind of bullshit that I feel is just saying that we're going to solve it by breaking up this deal. They're all in a race, as are foreign ministers, in having doubts about the customs agreements. And I'm sure we'll see it now in the near future, so I'll answer that. I could not answer that question again. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson, but what I'm saying is that we have - and maybe it's important that because I say it, there's nothing to mean it, it's just meaningless, but if others say it, it's important - to be worthy of toll protection. We know that direct support is 16◯17 billion through the livestock contract. Since then, toll protection has been calculated from 9 billion to 14 billion. Depending on the customs we are taking into account, it depends on the protection we are taking into the account. There is nowhere to approach the exact price of these measures of the government. Does it run at hundreds of millions? It's not quite safe. It can be found out. [[The president calls.]] But we are to say: Good and good, what interests do we have if we are to stake ourselves on the protection of customs and, in part, the protection of the agricultural industry but instead, have an open market society? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u103	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. Now, only severe economic difficulties exist, in fact, unprecedented places. It is not only the position of the European Commission but also the position in many EU declarations. In fact, the EU has taken special measures to support farmers, and I covered it earlier, including Exception of competitive law. As I said in my previous answer, we're dealing with unprecedented situations and we're suggesting unpredictable methods in our motions in the Central Party. We're not talking about canceling customs. We're suggesting to temporarily postpone invitations until the situation improves. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u104	A respectable president. That's exactly what I'm saying: Why don't we just look to the European Union? We have not been critical of the support of the European Union, which is very masquerade with farmers. We're to look at them because they have a rule on this and they're linked together through farmers, consumers, competitive authorities, and governments. But what does the Icelandic government do? What does she do? It does not speak to consumers and consumers, nor does it speak to the store, nor does it speak to competitive authorities. It's very clear from the Contestant Board, and it's a happy light. That is to say, farmers and their competition for harvest stops must be strengthened against the middlemen. But nothing's being done with it. So I'd like to state here that if we had been consulted by the Contestant and were looking for solidarity on this matter, we could have gone to customs barriers to support Icelandic agriculture and at the same time be supportive of the Icelandic consumers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But the government chose not to contact or contact consumers, farmers, competitive authorities, or ASI. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u105	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a change in farm shape. As we have seen, the matter means that a temporary deportation from a new arrangement will be implemented for the discharge of tollovita, a so - called balance signal, and an earlier discharge program restored. The report on the bill reviews the worsening status of domestic food production in the light of a pandemic. However, the changes made in the implementation of tollovates at the beginning of 2020 were at least Steps in the right direction. As shown in the largest section's committee program, 13 comments were received, but only three of them were positive. All the others were negative and warned directly about the case's agreement, and these are changes that will cost consumers money, or as the consumer organisation points out, this would be the only action the government has taken to minimise the impact of the Korean epidemic that would be paid by a specific curse on consumers. The ASI review says, with the permission of a president: It can be said that changing customs exports were beneficial for consumers, and increases in products falling below customs tenders were modest compared to the prices of other foods. Thus, the use of products increased and the mean increase in meat products was only 1.23/4.9% during the same period when the kroner gangs became sick by 17%. During the same time period, prices in similar domestic products increased by a range of 1.66.5.1%. However, all the narratives have a common need to help Icelandic agriculture far more than the changes proposed here. That's why we're in the Union too. As shown in the talk "Wicked. " Chairman of the Conspiracy of 1st. Does the Union fight this bill, but highlights the importance of dealing with the problem of this article, so we encourage the government to face farmers with financial support and to protect the consumers of the country from financial gains. It is wrong to prevent healthy competition by means of measures that are not harmed by consumers. We in the United States have spoken for public support in agricultural production, which is a key when it is placed in place that it does not upset competition more than is necessary and that it ensures farmers and consumers the maximum benefits. The review of the Contestant Commission says, on permission of the President: ▪ Research has shown that measures involving the weakening of competition have fallen to extending economic problems in markets. This bill will protect farms for competition at a higher price and at the expense of farm interests, but there is no guarantee that farming will increase prices even if there is room to do so. Similarly, consumer prices will almost certainly rise. This is, therefore, a particularly bad operation, given that there are already about 25,000 people out of work. They have to look at every cent they can get. The U.S. Governing Body also says in its review, with permission of the president: ▪ In view of all of the above, the Contestant Board assessment that the bill, if legal, is to cause harm to consumers'interests as well as farmers. In addition, the methodology used by the bill is to reduce the problem of management in the article over a period of time and to delay economic recovery at the end of the current epidemic. Mr. President. As mentioned in the discussion, Iceland has accepted a commitment to allow import of agricultural products, low tolls, and ports. Their declared agreements of Iceland have been creating protection and quality, but when the import equipment is introduced neither. It'll be pretty much the same as in domestic production, and because of the high price paid for the quadtans, you will be taking the poorest product, the cheapest product. It's not good for anybody, either. Food production, like a large part of the nation, has suffered economic trauma this year. Some areas of agriculture are not well - off, and farmers do not have good conditions. This is how it was even before Covid came into existence, and that makes it much wiser for us in the United States to support farmers directly in the form of financial support because of the pandemic. Then I agree with a major part of the employment committee that we must take the farm position seriously, as he mentioned earlier. With this in mind, we must review Icelandic agricultural systems based on the interests of farmers and consumer interests and, especially, on climate issues. I'd like to encourage you. To study a new report from Iceland's Landing University, Climate, Carbon, and Dust, by Ólafur Arnalds and Jón Guðmundsson, there is something that we must consider seriously. In view of all other government actions, we must be able to support farmers more fully. The report states that tollvoum import remained unchanged. The Habitat numbers do not show that the import of tomato products remained unchanged but, contrary to the fact that the import has been summed up. The negative effect of Covid can be found in many of our communities, although the stroke was a variable one, Mr. President. This matter can also be viewed from the perspective of caterers who have faced severe problems. Implementing a higher price prices will only increase the problem of restaurants and increase uncertainty. It's a delicate chain, Mr. President; farmers, products, stores, restaurants, consumers, we have to be careful with. What is also lacking completely in this matter is an analysis of the status of food production, the number of revenues of the manufacturer, and the general problem. Thus, a review of business shows that it is misleading to introduce a number of tourists in this context when it comes to food production. If one of the two million tourists is expected to have stayed in the country for five to six days, it would mean that some 30,000 tourists were in the country at any given time. On occasion, the Icelanders do not travel abroad so that the reduction in food market consumers could be expected to be well within 10% and in terms of personal consumption in general. Then the report points out that the import of tollovates has not been recessed, but it was found by the Committee that a continuation of tollovate was required and even requested to return it for reimbursement. The Ministry will have rejected such demands, thereby causing some of its own at least part of our situation. Mr. President. If we look at the actions of other countries, this is not the way other countries around us have been able to support their agriculture by Covid-19. According to the Parliament's information services, the situation in the North countries as well as in the EU countries together with New Zealand is that governments have taken general measures to repair damage caused by Covid-19, measures such as tax wills, direct payments, self-financing, and national responsibility for borrowing by subsidies or delay of paydays. In this way the European Commission temporarily extended permission to the state to provide financial support and practical reimbursement. Therefore, the European Union has more resources to support agriculture through such measures. Neither Norway, Britain, nor New Zealand have gone up tolls to deal with the Covid problem. Mr. President. I think it's safe to say that we all want to be in Iceland a powerful agriculture industry, because we're proud of our production and we're making good products. However, the fact is, as indicated by at least Ten comments on the matter, that tolls and protectiveism are not designed to support agriculture and simply lead to the loss of both consumers and manufacturers in the long run. We need to look to direct action, direct support to farmers, and support for innovation. We own agriculture on a global scale, directly support those who are engaged in such agriculture to continue their work with pride, but we also trust consumers to choose the best products.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u106	Mr. President. For a considerable time, we have been listening to this discussion and have been in many places. It is clear that there is a major problem and I think the general public does not know, and we do not know that the big picture is a fundamental market failure that is becoming part of a meat market, either in Iceland or in Europe, and the whole system is becoming very, very, very, very, very upset. I think a significant part of the problem is the information source, and it lacks good information about what the situation really is. I think there's a significant lack of appreciation for, like, e.g. the information we have received from a professional health - care committee that has led to a reduction in the number of tourists in Iceland and how this has affected the Icelandic market this year. Much has been said about the quantity, but the value behind this amount has never been spoken of. I suspect that the most expensive pieces are actually being sold to tourists in the local restaurants, so it is even more valuable to the article than it shows in the evidence we've been working with in the Committee. Hv. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Fräfjörður Elíasdóttir merely came up with what she has to do with the matter, but it may be difficult for us to do one, two and three here because it's getting a picture on it, and it's huge. Has she come to appreciate the situation, the big picture, in the work of the job committee? We haven't been evaluated for what the amount of money we're talking about on the market like that and the market failure I've been talking about, which has become, and what the standard is in the big picture. Then I'd like to go in later, which turns to Africa and the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u107	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A fine answer from Friðbertsson, Njáll of Trausti. These are very interesting points he enters here. One of the reasons I voted against the Committee that the matter would be taken out immediately, and there I deeply agree. A senator is that we do not have all the basis for the case, either by it or by it. This is not made clear in the report returned by the Ministry, and there seems to be a substantial lack of consultation with standard sources, the case did not enter the consultations, etc., since we could have received very good information. Even if, in his review, business counsel points out that there is not as much decrease as it might seem, I don't agree with that. A senator because we are at the same time looking at a crash in the hands of many Icelanders when we face it. I think there's an enormous number of people who are just aware, like what they're doing. A senator himself gave an answer, choosing a less expensive bite. The mainly expensive bites have been sold to restaurants, and the restaurants have naturally had to meet because of Covid. But I think consumers are also congregating, choosing a less expensive bite, trying to get a hold of a business, and, of course, it also works. I did not wear it in my speech, but if it did not clearly become clear, the situation of farms and farms is extremely serious. [[The president calls.]] But I'm not saying this is the way to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u108	Mr. President. This case, one of which converts into the large context of which I am talking, is not about to save any Icelandic agriculture. This is far more extensive. I requested a report, along with the members of the Independence Party on the 2015 Custom Convention and went into effect in May 2018. There's one thing about these things. We need the big context and a much better source of information on how things are economic in the industry. I took a political committee of the NATO to Africa last September. In Africa, we increased our numbers and what would be going on over the years. That was extremely interesting. We meet with representatives of the Ethiopian government, as well as with the Council of Africa. What do you think came up in that discussion? In particular, what holds Africa is the European Union's customs alliance for exporting food to Europe. So it's not quite that simple, it's global whether it's Africa, Brazil, America, etc., which is about to import into Europe. The European Union is in nature on this matter, on agriculture, on customs. It's about defending its position. It would be of great importance and interesting if we were to assess the extent to which this is in the European Union's policy, the subsidies of food in Europe, compared with the commercial and all of this. It was so interesting on this visit last year that Africans actually viewed Europe as holding it down with customs walls. Thus, this discussion can be far and wide. This visit was 15 months ago, since we are a bit thinking only about our world, Iceland, then the European Union, our territory. [[The president calls.]] There are so many other things, and we could expand the discussion in the big context to show that the European Union is also a customs alliance, which is just thinking about its own interests and protecting its agriculture. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u109	Mr. President. I have to start by being a little happy about what you're doing. A senator could recall the good old times when we could travel from country to country. But this, of course, is an interesting approach. In itself, I don't disagree. A senator, for it is of utmost importance that we get better information about agriculture and, like, a number of other occupations. A senator mentioned. When we don't have the information, it's a little hard to figure out the right way. But because of him. A senator refers to the Custom Community, as he refers to the European Union, that we are so lucky to have a pretty good deal with the European Union that makes sure that we are not in the same position as the Africans and that we are exporting goods, and we are exporting considerable amounts of valuable products to the European Union. That's exactly what these contracts are for. So I don't fear anything, and I'm just glad that these contracts are being evaluated because I think the result will be more positive than many people want to mean.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u110	Mr. President. During the discussion that has taken place here today, there have been many viewpoints, and I probably disagree with most of the people here. With some progress in the discussion, we are in the Senate, so that there is no basis for long discourses, I will refuse to have a general debate about agricultural policy, business freedom, and so forth. But I just want to explain my approach, to see that I believe that freedom of the business is far more practical for the nations than business restrictions. That's my basic stand on such a case. I can, like many of those here mentioned, feel that land should be supported in various ways. I want them to do so, so that the least interferes with business, whether within the country or abroad. That is why I generally have spoken more readily of direct support for agriculture rather than of the barriers to trade between countries or the international competitiveness. It's such a general policy. In terms of what is particularly discussed here, I would like to say that when it entered the last month's convention, November/December, I had made it up with me, although some of it might go against my basic principles, to support it on the ground that this was the matter of temporary action because of a temporary situation. Of course, we are giving in to the temporary problems of a pandemic. We know that we have taken in more extensive political exchanges both in form of strengthening and in all kinds of action that we are used to, and I believed that this was the case. But I have to admit that when the adjustment is more than that. The employment committee shows up, and it's assumed that it's not a one-year deviation but it's three years old, and I'm not going to be thinking. Now the discussion shows that the plan is to reexamine this matter in the Governing Body between 2 and 3. and I support it, and I think that it needs to be determined that it is not a temporary Covid procedure but that it is a longer-term operation, based on the opinion of the committee. the majority of the employment committee, to deal with situations that are not just Covid's conditions, but something much more. Of course, the committee needs to consider the matter, and when it comes to 3rd, I have the right to take a stand on the matter. But I admit to the fact that the committee and the changes made from a greater part of the employment committee make it possible that the support I had decided to give this case is upset. We'll take this up further until the issue comes to its final payment, so I'll leave myself the right to a discussion later if there's a reason. But I just wanted to explain that I feel that the matter is presented in a very different way now than when it was laid out for the last few months.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u111	V.E.G. President. I'm going to give a brief talk on a language that I have very limited knowledge of. It is now known in this hall that humans do so, and rather than exception, a principle. I just want to talk about agriculture in general because I've long led myself to believe that I'm a relatively liberal person who may be some sort of misunderstanding. I've always considered agriculture a very important profession. I think it's a big deal for the nation to think that there's some decent agriculture around here, and I think that's right. 1st. Witchest. " Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, earlier, said that we have been completely uncanny for years holding this article so that it can develop into a natural competition and that it can be a reasonable standard. The question is, What are you going to do? Is it just somehow about some freedom that I've never really realized in this discussion? Is this about some freedom that is just for the benefit of consumers, or is this much bigger? To me, this is a huge case, i.e. ... thatwearesustainedwith food production in the country. That won't happen unless the agriculture is in good condition. What resources do people in general use to ensure that food production in their lands can be normal and beneficial? Yes, there have been two uses, customs protection, and uses of some kind of direct payment, subsidies, and funding. I've seen things appear to be usually both sharp. Because I know that many members of the Parliament think that the European Union is something particularly liberal in this relationship and that there is a great amount of freedom, of course, it protects the agriculture of countries outside the EU with customs protection, just as tax subsidies and sponsors. That was the last time I knew. Toll protection is not like walls. There is no barrier to freedom of business. I don't think there's anything as much business as there is in Iceland. And certainly not in the EU. I'm gonna start by saying that, of course, I don't know what's right to do to make sure that there's some decent agriculture here. I'm just not sure. I still encourage Congress to review the best options, what measures must be taken so that in this country there is an adequate agriculture, an adequate food production. Surely we can draw some conclusions in this regard. We just cannot let this article down because we are so preoccupied with getting something less expensive elsewhere. In a way, they're peeing in their shoes. I think there's a huge profit in my mind that there's farming and not just food production. Of course, farmers are just an incredibly important class in such a large country where we are so few in our ability to keep this country properly active, to care for the nature of this country, which they have made all ages with wonderful results. We see people being blown up from many parts of the earth. That's not a good development. It may well be that I'm starting to talk like some progressive guy, but I watch it out on the big stakes. The great interests are that we have here some very serious land equipment that we can, of course, improve and do much better. It's been a lot of practicality, but we need to cover these matters thoroughly and improve the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u112	A respectable president. I want to start my case because of you. A senator to his fine talk, which was more balanced and more than some talks being delivered today. It is proved true that the subject involved is a very serious matter that must be handled. The issue is not that humans do not agree that there is one way or another that they must react. Big differences with regard to pathways. I think there's a reason to thank you. A senator for discussing the balance and balance he did here and without the extremes that some members of the Parliament have allowed themselves in this discussion today, with big talk as if at one of the most important issues, energy, in their time, it was not even possible to discuss with the European Union as if it were going to be all of this. Now we are in the position of these same people to come up naturally and say that if we so much as allow it to be taken up with the European Union, we are all in danger and danger. Of course, this results in no success, not just a few. It's very cool to talk about bone payment and such things, and it can be said in many ways. But there is no way to see in what way bone payment would solve the problem here, which is this great collection of supplies, and because we are in the midst of the crown virus, much of the market has been removed from foreign tourists. The question I wanted to direct to. A senator may answer in some way himself, but will he agree with the language that includes such treaties as treatals and that these are all very few in our dealings with the ideal European Union if we allow ourselves to take action like those to be handled? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u113	V.E.G. President. I hope now that we are still that nation of our own.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u114	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u115	There may be some tools on it. Of course, we must take the action that we feel will require our interests. But I'm going a little steep in a subject that I'd be happy to admit I don't really know very well, I'm just talking about the big movie. The big picture is that our greatest interests are that they are real, real, and real land in the country and food production. It's the big interests, not whether I can get anywhere else to get the weight of some product at 50 bucks. A lower price. However, in order to balance this position, all nations have taken two measures according to their convenience: Toll protection, which may be more useful in certain situations, and some sort of subsidies or direct payment. We are not competitive with countries in a world where the pay is ten times lower, all the other circumstances, etc. Like all nations, we need to balance that position with customs. Otherwise, we can just say goodbye to this production, this important industry. That's just what I'm saying. But, hey. A senator can't do much technical things with me on these matters because I'm just not well enough at all, so I'm starting to worry about the next question.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u116	Thank you. A senator for the answer, and it is a pleasure to have a conversation with him on these subjects. There are some basic facts. There's not a few people on the ground at least not in our part of the world, which does not support its basic activities and provides them with acceptable and normal working conditions. Number two: Icelandic agriculture is a manufacturing industry and we know its production products. We know that it is a high priority that is to be formed because drug abuse is at a very low level than anything in any part of the world, and it is a loyal and healthy product produced. And when under very unusual circumstances and extreme circumstances, then, of course, there is nothing else to be done about it. Of course, though, moderation must be exercised. I believe the proposal we have. paritaprevir Sigurður Páll Jónsson has allowed us to contribute for the middle party in this discussion, is moderate, and is cautious. I'd like to say what. A senator who is now a prominent lawyer has been president of the police society and with long legal experience that we, of course, sought legal advice on this matter. She's on the way that we're party to a deal with 112. g., which can be activated in this relationship. A senator and Mr President, in the power of the national sovereign. We are members of this agreement as a sovereign nation, as a sovereign nation, and as a sovereign nation, we can take up this kind of conversation with our people. [[The president calls.]] We can also do so without any special fear in our hearts. [[The president calls.]] We're sovereigns.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u117	V.E.G. President. Of course we can do all of this. It's always a matter of interest. When I'm speaking of nations usually using both, toll protection, and direct payment, and subsidies, that is not to say that we can do better in other ways. I think Icelandic agriculture has an amazing potential, e.g. in the market. Of course, we have a different product. A senator came in, we have a more wholesome product, and it may become a much better market soon, and it may have begun. We need to be a little pushy and try to take advantage of each situation and the possibilities. We must not always think that more or more of our taxes are needed. We must be on our toes, too. There's been a lot of management, and there's been a lot of work to be done, and there's been a new development in this article, but we have to watch our situation so that we don't get overwhelmed by it gradually. My speech was really about that. I don't come here as some freedomman who says, "There's gotta be freedom" and it's a good thing for consumers. We know exactly what's gonna happen. We know that this product can be obtained far less expensive elsewhere, from Africa, Asia. [[Up front.]] No, but the consumer's purse, there can be more in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u118	Different quality.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u119	Yeah. I'm just saying, the big thing is that we're here with food production and agriculture that's good and good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u120	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to correct the change in agricultural products, the distribution of customs. Of course, it's going to be in the tray stream that I'm coming here after the wet men and women who have been talking about this for a long time today. This is an intriguing discussion of the state of a farmer facing an emergency. At the same time as the intake due to Covid, the import will continue as there is no tomorrow. It seems that all the reductions on the market and what is available for sale in the camp fall from Icelandic farmers. It's the experience you see and hear. The supplies are piled up in the freezer and on the feet of the houses. It's very serious. Of course, it takes a long time to raise animals and get them out of the market, and when that is done, there is little to do. I think, and then I'm not separating myself, that we lacked the courage to take these matters seriously. With the bill, we're responding to an emergency. Of course, it can be said that going further and that's my feeling, I would have liked to go far beyond this bill, although I finally support it. But I certainly would have wanted to go further. I'm also concerned about the survival of farmers when you see it on a comparative plot that the consumer source of meat and food will go up deep into the air at the same time as the object of a farm goes down to the floor. This is what Icelandic farmers have been living with for far too long. This is a situation that is part of the present problem. In the European Union, the European economy is the highest in Switzerland, followed by Norway, and the Icelanders are third, with the longest price for farmers, less than any other nation in Europe lives. So I feel that, as a respectable president, this is the most important talk about long-term futures for farmers when farmers are trying to call for the fire crew. It's like the phone's talking. The fire team is always talking about import from the European Union and some new sponsorship, but in that area, as noted here in many speeches, the European Union embraces its farmers, violates all agreements and the value of the whole partnership. At least that's the information we have. I don't think that if there's no change of mind in the council and nation with farmers, it doesn't matter whether the fire crew will answer or not. It must ensure the survival of farmers. In this community, there is a need for understanding that this excellent product produced by Icelandic farmers is, of course, an animal in a country where pay and money are the highest in the world. It's odd that farmers have talked about sending slaughter products to European countries and having them work there and then sending them back to Iceland, that would be more expensive than winning them here at home. There's something in Iceland's national soul wanting Swiss and Norwegian remuneration, but Greek prices. That's always our thinking. Later, we'll move in meat like there's no tomorrow. What have consumers in Iceland gained from this? I sometimes ask that when the council represents immigrants, where do we see evidence that the Icelandic consumers are especially enjoying the balanced invitation? Thus, when the land was up and 2 million tourists came to the country and turned everything into consumerism and enterprise in this country, everything was going to take place in many parts of the world. It's somehow a respectable president, like it's not a pandemic here, he's just abroad. We lack the courage to handle these matters, and I ask: What nation doesn't want to own agriculture like Icelanders when it comes to hygiene, renewal, renewable energy, and wholesome products? I'm afraid the school meal would be different if we didn't have that wonderful product that the children can eat. We need to take action and then cover the future, how we can make it possible for farmers to live a life that is bearable in this country. There are not a few people who want to take risks, so their food security is threatened. They don't want a nation, not a nation. But we're a little playing with that danger, Icelanders. Let us not do so. So let's turn on this country's farmers, buy their products, and let's not let it happen that because of failure they have to stop, the store continues to import an abundance of nonexpensive goods, and does not particularly benefit Icelandic consumers. A respectable president. I'll just say at the end: It is my hope that we here at council will be as quick as possible to deal with the problems of prayer, to improve their interests, and to make their future secure.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u121	Madam President. There have been many benefits here in the discussion for the rest of the day, such as many things that are much in the past. What I would like to start with is a word that is easily understood. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson used in his background, but the word was indecision. Sadly, there is much to say. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson. In the environment of agriculture in Iceland, for some time there has been some lack of resources for measures, solutions, development, and extracurricular development. Perhaps this is to some extent because the political fields, the Generals, and those working in that environment have either not been courageous or supportive to begin the journey each time by saying: Now we are going to do what is necessary for domestic agriculture to become fertile, develop, have been sufficiently strong to carry out the products and other such things, and always with the underlying basis that farmers can live a decent life in the work they have chosen, these inmates of the country. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson for using that term. I think it's nice to drag us to where we really need to be. When it comes to evaluating the action and the next steps and how we want to handle these matters in this country, we need to get out of this situation of helplessness. Hv. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son gave an excellent speech earlier, the best thing to say is that I encourage those who did not hear. Hv. In his speech, a senator admitted that he did not in himself have a deep knowledge of the agriculture, and most of us don't have it in ourselves. But he approached us from the prince's hand and the prince's hand was that in this country we could develop and be loaded with agriculture, here in this country where I allow myself to claim that we produce the cleanest and the best agricultural products in the world. This relies on the same well as on helping us to stop approaching agrier's case out of ignorance but with confidence and confidence that our agriculture is the best agriculture in the world in quality, druglessness, and so forth, and that it has all the means of growth and growth and proliferation of wealth at the same time as maintaining health. Our neighbors, all the countries we compare to, are taking action for agriculture right now. The situation that exists, this Covid situation, is not unique. The nations are taking action to protect their agriculture all around us, in all the controlled countries. I'm just asking what. Senators here are correcting me if not in any case, but I allow myself to state that there is a worldwide act to protect domestic agriculture. That's what we're supposed to do with a lot more force here than we've done so far. It has two main roads, it's customs protection, and it's a direct payment. It is often as if the discussion here in the Assembly Hall was a matter of specializing agricultural products. Nothing is farther off. Of course, tolls are primarily used to protect domestic agriculture among all the peoples we compare with. We're supposed to do this totally shameless. We're supposed to spend this way on Icelandic agriculture because we have a responsibility to think this over a longer period of time. If the damage is done and the agriculture will be completely in place, then we'll have very little wood and a few wood. Former agricultural minister, Þordur Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, spoke earlier. It sounded like a sledgehammer. A senator would never have been a agricultural minister, one of the shortest if not the most short - lived government in the history of the Republic. But this does not change the lives of less than a year. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir had some of the points suggested by the convention council at the time. It's all pretentious now. Hv. paritaprevir One Birgir ago, the Ármannsson of a year had an excellent speech, which actually drew out, and was interesting in that sense, that it appears to be a division of the Party of Independence as to the proper approach of the present matter. But what I wanted to detract from a talk. A senator's point is that he emphasized that freedom in business is a good thing, and we should contribute to the most practical effort we can make to promote the prosperity and success of an Icelandic community. I agree, in all principle, with why. Birgir That's what Ármannsson's offer is. However, in Iceland, as in all the countries that we compare with them, there are special views on agriculture and domestic food production. I know that point. paritaprevir A year's Ármannsson farm knows each other, and that must have been the meaning of the word. Senator. I refer back to the words of the Chairman of the Independence Party, highest. The secretary of finance, Bjarni son of Benediktsson, discussed business agreements, stressing that there must be some mutualness in the agreements. From that moment on, I would like to wonder if the two parties of this tax agreement, in this business contract with the European Union, are real, and presented in a reasonable and reasonable way. Is there any equal in the fact that there is the same clearance available to 500,000,000 people for us Icelanders, as if for that giant market in our 3 60,000 people, the desperate market? Do people in general believe that it holds reasonable equality and mutuality? Does it think that Biffit, the removal of British British from the European Union, has no effect on the mutual or fairness in this matter? Of course, we have to approach it on the basis of today's situation. They are by no means the wisdom of the agreement to keep it as it lies, that it is a form of decommissionment for domestic agriculture, entirely prerogative. We are to take reasonable steps to free ourselves from this order. It is necessary to introduce information that has been discussed only and to address the price of a domestic agricultural product. In economics, there is a term, PPP, a prerogative of power parity, which would be published in Icelandic as some kind of equal pay unit attempting to equalize the situation in each area and correct the prices accordingly. Of course, it is completely absurd to think that something else applies to agricultural products than other products in such areas. For example, I'd like to say that the National Association of Iceland for the past few years has been experiencing considerable housing through the saving of an apartment society. How did that start? The first buildings to save an apartment society, an ASI rented society, were built from imported timber units. I have no comment on this, but this does not change the fact that these houses were built from imported timbers that domestic product was unable to build up the houses that the Calculator wanted to build because the pay here was, of course, much higher than in the country of timber. I think there was Estonia in this case. You are surprised that the Icelanda pilot is at times a little more expensive than Wazz Air's in a certain plane route, but you do nothing about the salary of the Ictelandian employees being completely different from the workers of Wazz Air. That's what we have to think, and it's kind of amazing how bad it's gone, to manipulate domestic agriculture. In nature, it is exactly the same principle: The cost of domestic healthy agricultural production is simply higher than that of farmers in large Europe. I would like to introduce some views that have been mentioned earlier in the discussion of Article 112. legislation on the European Economic Area. It has to do with the views of postponing the current tollovate. I would like to read briefly from Article 112. And one sentence from the 113th gr. legislation on the European Economic Area. In the 112th. says, with permission of the president: If serious economic, social, or environmental difficulties are to be faced in special sectors or in designated areas that are likely to be maintained, the parties can take one-sided to appropriate measures at the conditions and in the manner recommended at 113. g. Such safety measures should be limited in terms of the magnitude and duration of the situation, with those which are considered absolutely necessary to address the situation. The measures to be taken should preferably interfere with the least implementation of this contract. Then, at 4 mg, it goes on to say. 113. ... withauthority of the President's permission: The contract agreement should immediately be informed of the measures taken by the joint EEA committee and should provide all necessary information. It simply occurs that the way to postpone this toll output is directly written into the European Economic Area Act. Unfortunately, we took this discussion, which the management teams did not have much to do, through the induction of the third energy package not long ago, since it seemed suddenly to be at 102.g. The EEA Convention would have died, in the opinion of the management. One-one-two. and 113th. are now equally dead in the minds of the rulers is about to become the thin thirteenth. This reduces the number of articles in the EEA treaties that the management team really consider to be active. Only then will he begin to cram from within if he is to pick out the articles that are in our Icelandic interests. They're in effect. Let us all introduce and hone and trust in and make sure that we are in the context of Catholic rather than the pope, as they sometimes say, but it was never intended for all the articles in the EEA Convention that would have any value in the defense of Icelandic interests. We are not permitted to approach the European Economic Convention in this way. Only then are those who give up the importance of the vast agreement to undermine themselves. That, then, is their responsibility. Now some people might criticize the reference to 112. g. The EEA Convention, this criticism is based on misunderstanding. If the EU considers the use of 112 gr. The EEA Treaty is not justified, which is, in fact, kind of out of the imagination of what the EEA is doing for the crown virus epidemic, it is taken into account in the joint EEA committee where people would try to figure out a solution. This is the channel that was the basis for bringing in the third energy package on the basis of the 102nd. Here's exactly a way in here to put this kind of issue into what the 112s say. CYP3A4 inhibition by CYP3A4 and CYP3A4 But no, for some reason, the interests are others, apparently, in the interests of the government, and therefore I strongly protest. It can be assumed that negotiations for the European Commission would be practical for the EU to provide an EU emergency situation and easily referred to the EU Commission's declaration of an emergency situation in European agriculture. This is just what's being asked, that agri-gain minister uses the available sources, and after cases of foreign minister, to protect the Icelandic interests that are so obvious today. The massive impact that has been caused by the reduction in the number of tourists in the country is due to the virus. Of course, the same thing is going to happen in the countries around us, and what will happen in the near future is that Iceland will become something of some sort accelerator, with the permission of a president, would have become an expected target market, to decommissioning an oversupposed supply, or something like that, to foreign producers who, of course, are working on a whole different scale than we're here. This will prove to be a challenge to domestic agriculture, and may not be effective if the condition is allowed to develop without foothold. At the end of my talk, I would like to review an interview with the highest. Secretary of State in the Morning of November 18, less than a month ago, which is under the heading may need to revise the business agreements. It reiterates the highest. Secretary of State, Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson, that there are various reasons for making a recent agreement between Iceland and the EU on agriculture trades has changed from the making of the contract. Thus, the British have now left the EU and the market access agreed to reach Britain no longer. Here, a direct quote from the highest level continues. Minister, with permission of presidents: It is also important that as a result of the pandemic in Iceland, the demand for agricultural products has diminished in this country. Therefore, it may be necessary to consider whether there is a reexamination of the terms of the contract. It's a fine audience. All of this is at the same well. The problem lies ahead, but the solution does too. If it is decided with your eyes that they will not take advantage of that opportunity or they will lead to the protection offered by the EEA deal, those who decide to be responsible will be responsible. No one else will. It's completely preprogrammed if it's not even a basis for the conference here to look at some depth of postponing the part of the problem that turns toward the tollovation while this Korean virus situation is running out. There is absolutely no way to do so. The motives of the secretary of state from a month ago reflect that this is not an understanding. I remind you of an excellent speech. paritaprevir Behemoth, Brynjar of Níelsson, in this discussion. At the same time, I remind you, with the reference to the speech of each man. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of a year, must be mutual and fair in contracts like these, and there is a great need now. We need to get out of the water and do what is necessary to help the feet and thrive.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u122	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the speech, she was quite clear. In fact, I was surprised at how much he liked the talk he spoke. paritaprevir Brubbur the son of Níelsson. I listened to her, and I didn't think she was very good. Not only did I disagree with her but I did not find her convincing about the subject. But all right, there's something else, I didn't mean to talk to you about it. That's what a senator's got to do with it. Hv. A senator was only able to cross the EEA agreement of 112th par. and 113. par., and mentioned the 102nd paragraph. which was discussed in an energy pack of three cases, the whole thing, happy memories. Hv. A senator speaks like the Middle Class made them and makes it clear yet, that it is no problem to use emergency resources in the contract or to assume that using such emergency measures would automatically protect Iceland's interests. The decision, as far as I can see, does not focus on whether it's 112 and 113th. are still in effect but whether it's wise, based on Iceland's interests, to use them. That's a very different question. If I read these articles, I believe, with the basic knowledge of the subject, that it is quite possible for the middle-class members of the 112s and 113ths. This situation would apply to us, for we are in a very bad situation, and it is undisputed by everyone in the world, except perhaps individual heads here and there. That doesn't mean it's a good idea. A contract that people make, about some sort of an offer, often has a scruple as to what to do in the event of an uncontrollable situation. That which is valid, of course, will avoid applying it unless the motive is sound and will be helpful to the interests of the one who intends to use it. If doing so is not a good thing for them, of course, you should not use it. A respectable president. I don't have a question. It's called an answering team, actually. But I'd love to hear it. A senator reacted only to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u123	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the counter-sponsore. I don't think there's anything to indicate that the 112 and the 113th. are force majeure, as in standard business contracts. So that's 102. Force majeure? So, how many of the fore majeure articles are in the EEA contracts? This is simply a cane, and there is no evidence other than that, when the contract is made, it is expected to be new. This is not a nuclear policy, this 112th gr. It says, with permission from the President: If serious economic, social, or environmental difficulties are to be faced in special sectors or in designated areas that are likely to be maintained, the parties can take one-sided to appropriate measures with the conditions and in the manner recommended at 113. gt. It is said that measures are limited in terms of length and duration. This is not a fore majeure principle in such a context. It's just a normal gringo. I would just let me say that it is a responsibility not to seriously examine it at the hands of the government to use the way that is written into the agreement at the beginning. For some reason, it was written in there. At the same time, we will see that the nations around us are taking action that might be called emergency action to protect domestic agriculture. Well, there wasn't a direct question about it at any point. Senator, this is my reaction to the counter-sponsor.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u124	A respectable president. I just took the fore majeure, for example. There are plenty of regulations in most contracts that I know about that people don't really want to use. It is not the same as not counting the law and not wanting to use it because it is not suitable for the interests of a person who holds the contract. This is different. I think it's a little groggy in a debate. The members of the Central Party. I'm not on this line to the 112s and 113s. are some kind of nuclear bomb, that using it would ruin the EU community. I don't believe it. But I don't think that's in harmony with Icelandic interests, the national interests of Iceland. That is why I would be opposed to using them outside the fact that I disagree with them. I think this is a bad way to overcome the problem. I completely admit the problem, just like everybody else, we don't disagree about it. There's no discrepancy about the problem, there's just a disagreement about the solution. The solution to competitive behavior has been unambiguous and well - known inadequacies. They're even. that when nations take toll protection to cope with economic crisis, the rate of economic crisis increases and reduces innovation that we really need. I know it hurts the way it is, it doesn't make any solution that is necessarily positive. And talking about courage and courage. Cod and cod don't turn a bad idea into a good one. I think it's a little symptomatic here at the General for courage and courage, that there's a solution. Of course we should have courage and courage, that's just that, and of course, we should think things through, which I feel personally lacking more often in this town than we dare. I'm going to ask you a question, a respectable president, in a few seconds. I wonder what's wrong. A senator imagines that we would use an emergency as a justification for the application of 112 and 113th par. The EEA Convention. How would we evaluate when that crisis had passed? See what? A senator realizes that agriculture will flourish in such a way over the next few years, if we do this, that at some point we can say that we can put down all customs protection now?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u125	Madam President. I think I know what. A senator hasn't heard all my speech. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u126	I got her.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u127	Well, that's what it's got. A senator did not notice that since the question ended, my goal is not to cut down all tax protection on agriculture at all. How, though, should this be appreciated? It's just objective criteria that can be set. In fact, there is nothing in the government's affairs at the Covid situation as such which suggests that the government can easily say: If we do this, then this will happen, so that there is uncertainty in action and response, but I look at what is written in the 113th paragraph. The EU has concluded in its declarations that an emergency situation in farmers and on a scale of 113 gr. are taken up by the joint EEA committee, where men would try to figure out a solution. It's just a contract and a conversation that takes place within the EEA joint committee, it's a factor of 112. is applied in this context. In itself, I have very little concern that this will be a problem, to define when this situation has come up that it is possible to go back in terms of the modest procedure made by the middle-class leaders. Because of what? A senator asked when agriculture would grow and thrive on the basis of our decision I think it will not grow and blossom on the basis of it, but certain aspects of it will less die, or will be reached up, if this tollovation is postponed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u128	A respectable president. Now I have to start by correcting myself in my final words, in response to what I'm saying. A senator. I told all customs protection, but of course no one is suggesting it and certainly not why. A member of the Central Party, so clear, in order to be maintained. I'm against this case myself. I think it's a bad solution to a very real problem. It is unmistakably true that agriculture has a major problem during the pandemic, such as many other classes, and it is to be taken seriously, and it is to be serious. In general discussion of agriculture, there are times when the view that we should not really protect agriculture is that we should just have no special support and no special protection, or that is at least my understanding of some talks. I'm not on that line, and I know a very few people who would stand here and be on that line. As far as I can see, it's unmistakably clear that we should support the agriculture. It's undisputed when it comes to this matter. Let's just start by holding it up. It's just a fact. I believe it is the fact that all members of Congress want to support the agriculture as I said. But how? Does that mean that everything we're used to is a good idea? No, of course not, of course not. I think most senators can see it, too. There have been disagreements over how to establish customs protection in Iceland and we have recently installed a system here proposed to be pulled back, temporarily, for some year, to protect the agriculture in short terms for competing with imported agrienvironmental products. I totally understand that. I understand that. There is no special mystery in this regard. I respect the fact that some people think it's necessary, that's the right way, but I disagree with that. As shown in the talk "Wicked. " paritaprevir Empresses the Brynjar of Níelsson earlier have two basic ways of supporting the agriculture, one of which is some kind of direct payment, some sort of payment for the members inside, and the other is toll protection. I can accept that in the basics. I'm sure there are some other ideas I haven't heard of, but let's just give us these two for now. Then we're supposed to take the bone pay, and we're supposed to support the agriculture with payment, with support, to use tax protection at the highest level possible because customs protection also have negative consequences, even for people in the agricultural world itself. Toll protection reduces innovation and innovation is not some luxury. We need innovation. We live in a world that changes and develops. It may be painful, but it must be done, and we need our system to develop and make the most of it. This does not mean that people don't care about agriculture or any industry in which we want to see more innovation. Another factor that is bad at customs protection is that customs protection tends to prolong economic losses, to delay them. Toll protection is not a new idea, it is a matter of fact, has been tested many times, and the consequences of it can be examined entirely. According to the data we have received, the result is the long - term shock. It's not good for agriculture, it's not good for Iceland. It's bad for agriculture, and it's bad for Iceland, so with that word, it's not ignoring any interests. This is just one of the side effects of the solution that is put in place, and this side effect is bad, terrible, and nonverbal. But speaking of terrible things incontrovertible, such as when something about the EEA or the EU comes to grips with certain words that somehow lead to our best interests at maintaining our agreements in good faith and keeping them in good faith, so that we are also thinking about the interests of the Member States in an effort to get the contract to think about our interests, which are our interests. That's what makes Iceland's conflict with the EEA that makes me feel pretty tired and especially tired. The members of the Central Party insist that certain articles that are an emergency solution to the contract itself are somehow just solutions that can be applied. Now there is a real emergency, but they also talked about the third energy package, and what happened to it? Well, there's another discussion, hopefully. This idea is created that if we don't take emergency measures, just because we see that it might work for us, it somehow undermines the deal. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Looks like it's him. The members of the Central Party simply don't care about it, with the advance that, of course, I don't speak for them, either. With regard to the crisis we are in right now, we also do not know exactly how long that economic effect will last. If there is something that economists insist on trying to explain the various scenarios that are possible in the coming years and years, this is uncertain. There are so many things we don't know, and we know we don't know, how our economy will develop in the next few years and years. It's just that it's bad, but it's that way. In view of this, I also feel bad because whenever the economy begins to take over, and most people seem to agree that it will take years again, we need to ask how much we can reduce customs protection. Then we're just back to that place. It's a very difficult conversation, it's hard enough for Icelanders to talk to each other, let alone if we're negotiating with the EU or the EEA or its members about when we're going to be able to defuse customs protection. I can only imagine what the speech here in the Senate Hall will be like in those circumstances, at least. if the Central Party is still at the council at the time. Then it is always against them, the evil EU who wants us to be free markets and competitive but we here to try to protect Icelandic interests from foreign interests. That's what the problem looks like. That alone is also a negative result. That's when tensions develop. Cutting off customs protection, of course, and naturally, means that markets need to change over and over, there is nothing necessarily painless or fair. On the other hand, we are not to get into trouble that we have created a system that prevents competition and reduces innovation and a longer crisis that we find difficult to get rid of. It would be almost to use some kind of direct intervention, I think it's more transparent, clearer, and more measurable, and it does not have this devastating system effect, which toll protection is inevitable, as far as it is known. If I have a little more time, I need to talk about courage, too. A few times during the discussion today, I've heard senators talk about the need for courage, and I like to hear them talk very much when they try to set Iceland against the European Union or the EEA. Like I said in answer to what. paritaprevir The middle party before, Bergþór Ólason, does not change courage and courage into a bad idea. Personally, I don't think any courage is missing here at the General Assembly. If something is, I may feel that he is too much at times because when he comes out of his mind, he leads to a far worse outcome, so that I do not recognize this discouragement or the cowardlyness that is supposed to exist here. People just disagree about which path is the most reasonable. On the other hand, I notice much thoughtlessness and indifference toward facts, evidence, and knowledge in general. It reflects how we live in, we human beings are not born as scientists, and we are not born untrained in data sources, data processing, or active listening if it does, so it should not be surprising. I also feel that I reflect the idea that somehow we need to be discouraged as little land against the great powers. That picture makes me feel so tired when it comes to such ideas and decisions. It's about what's wise for Icelandic interests. There is no difference. Some senators have then flew in their heads, including the one listed here that cooperation is good, that people in general get more results than separate people. It should not seem to anyone who has worked with a group of people in an effort to reach a goal. It's pretty obvious if you're thinking about it a little bit, and even if you're thinking about it very little. But it's somehow that the idea of an inside group and a group is very deep in the human soul, probably because for hundreds of millions of years or whatever we were based on a far more primitive situation than we live today, and that's why we have these primitive feelings and motivations, e.g. That we will constantly become part of a group and group and then go out to paint ourselves as a hero against the wicked and alien outcasts. Of course, here's a little ass-psychology on the move, as my good friend calls it, so be it, but that's the way it happens to me at least. The mention of the largest part shows that the price to consumers is not clearly affected by this method. I don't agree with that. I think it's very obvious. Both experience with changed systems is that consumer prices have fallen and products selection is increasing, so by re-creating the old system, it is expected to go back to the same place. There's a clue, anyway. I feel that there is some denial in my belief that this is not clear in some way. Likewise, I do not find good enough to consider why we want to protect agriculture precisely. Some people come here in a pit to try to get the votes of farmers. I'm not that, as we've been through, and I'm not gonna volunteer next, so I'm not looking for a vote from anybody, and no one has to vote for me next and no one can do it, but there's a very real reason we want to have agriculture in this country. It's food security, which today is in my opinion not quite good enough. The last time I checked, it was about 50%, i.e. We could feed half the nation if all the lines of communication were dropped, which does not indicate that it will be the same, but it is the unit of measurement that is often used in the discussion. Food security is for me a fundamental factor, actually absolutely fundamental, and may be better, and I think we need a very great innovation and a lot of new thought to get it back up. There's a lot of stuff in there. Many names, I rightly believe, increase in vegetable production, which I think is very positive that we would increase. Carnage is a new phenomenon that is being tested on a market in Israel, now the most amazing idea ever. Hv. paritaprevir The Björn of Leví, the son of Gunnarsson, has stumbled some of the minister by talking about it, but it is coming; the culture of flesh will come, i.e. You grow meat, you got technology. Today it is mainly a matter of reducing the cost and increasing its production capacity so that it can replace traditional agriculture. It may not work that way. It may not happen soon, but it will happen sooner or later, we have to assume. All kinds of changes are being made when it comes to cooking, even if only because of climate change, let alone technology change. In view of this, it is normal for me to think that a government fund, by charging taxes, strengthens agriculture in a variety of ways, but preferably in a simple way, so that the people of the agricultural field can choose for themselves what they do rather than define in advance that we're going to have this meat and this meat and this product and this service, rather than allow farmers to experiment with something new. But at least I think it is totally justified that a government fund is somehow building agriculture. I don't like it at the expense of competition and innovation and to reduce the impact of economic problems like the people that are now bombarded. Now it is proper to assume that with customs protection it is really no less taxation, though some actually stretch the concept a little too much. What I'm talking about is the price, or what the city needs to pay more, simply shows up at a higher price instead of appearing on the tax report. I know that this town, talking about courage and courage and all that, is a lot of people who might not want to use the tax system to finance infrastructure like agriculture because they are afraid to raise taxes. However, they are not necessarily so afraid of raising prices because the government cannot blame it. That is not what the consumer thinks when he sees a higher price, at least far away from it. He may think more about it when he sees that he gets less money because of more tax returns. That is understandable. But it does not change how, in the end, this support for agriculture, which I hear no disagreement on the need to get out of the country's pockets, matters how, by what means, by what means, how this system works for the money, on what basis it reaches the money and how it is distributed and how it affects the market, how it affects the economy for the longer time, and how it affects the innovation and competition. I'm going to finish this right here, Mr. Honorable President. As it may be clear, I vote against this case and will vote against the middle party's change proposal and agree to vote with a suggestion. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, which includes a single farmer's payment on income loss in 2020 due to a pandemic. That is a very clear way, a very simple way, a very transparent way, which is easy to predict for monologue, so that there is no need for some systematic effect in the future that must be taken back, let alone if we have to argue about it with foreign parties rather than with ourselves. It's hard enough here at home to try to stop customs protection and things like that. But now I'll finish my speaking, a respectable president, and see what comes out of continued discussion on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u129	Madam President. We'll discuss a bill of change in agricultural products. By means of the bill, tollovate's early export system is temporarily reinvented in the face of difficult conditions that are open to pandemic crown virus. The main objective of the bill is to minimise the impact of the epidemic on domestic agricultural production products. At the end of the New Year's season, a balanced signal was introduced by the distribution of tollovates on agricultural farms here. The exercise was suggested by the legislation team. The changes had to be contributed to the benefit of consumers as well as to reduce the costs of those assigned to the tollovata, in view of agreements between Iceland and the European Union on agriculture trade from September 17, 2015, which took place on May 1, 2018. With the contracts, tollovians were greatly increased by agricultural products. In human language, a large increase in agricultural import was authorized to land from European countries. Madam President. Now, as we know, there is a very different situation. Of course, the tourist stream is gone, and the demand for food has dropped dramatically. The demand for agrienvironment schemes has become a major factor, not just due to a reduction in the number of tourists, but also to the control efforts of the government. Sales on meat have gathered about 10% this fall and reports that meat supplies grow up as well as storage supplies, as well as farm animals. Also, there has been a high degree of contraction in the trade of dairy products. Nevertheless, Madam President, since the beginning of the epidemic nine months ago, the import of agrienvironment schemes has been maintained all this time. It has caused a lot of load among the manufacturers of a agricultural product, an Icelandic farm group. When considering the import of agrienvironmental products, agrienvironment schemes in Europe must be taken into account in terms of all the other conditions in the country, as well as in many other circumstances, and often a lower salary rate for labour workers, as well as a lot of other workforces, not to mention animal care and the use of certain products to increase the quality of the animals, as well as to combat the diseases they face. But it's another story, and it's quite a long story to tell about it. It is not long since then that the import of agrienvironments has been identified as a breaking point, as the Committee says. It is safe to say. Certainly, when it comes to paying off many of these agricultural products, serious failures seem to have been involved when they are moved here from European countries. However, there is no reason for this bill or government response, even though much can be said about the project. There I have pointed out mainly that monitoring for such import must meet the requirements for importing agrienvironments that have come from areas with which we have blessedly been free of disease for about a year. They could, if they moved here, prove to be expensive to us, and therefore all the monitoring of agrienvironmental products must be very strict. Madam President. Governments have provided this bill to deal with the difficult conditions in agriculture and intend to adopt the first arrangement in the next year and through February 1, 2022. In fact, I see the adjustment made to a greater part of the employment committee that this period is extended. It's going to be a great deal to pick up an earlier arrangement for this deal I mentioned. This, of course, is an effort to limit the damage caused by the Icelandic producers and will remain if the future continues. But the damage has been done, and farmers survive. In fact, the bill involves more than farmers, Madam President, because it affects the immigrants who have brought in their agricultural products and their activities will be very limited if the bill is accepted. The situation of Icelandic farmers, as mentioned, differs greatly from that of farmers in the European Union. Icelandic farmers are uncomfortable in this comparison and have long been left out in their priorities in the government. I've been here several times in a talk. In the context of my section, which consists of two members of the Central Party, it is noted that farmers and products of the Norwayn trade are left with the exception of competitive legislation, and the European Commission has a broad record of permission to take action in the interest of farmers and have done so for the cause of the pandemic and gives a few minor examples to the committee's opinion. Madam President. More and more measures have to be taken than the bill tells us to. For this reason, I'm going to say that the Central Party has made a thorough suggestion to promote agriculture as a major cause for production in the country. This suggests that the prime minister will be assigned to implement 24 agricultural measures in consultation with farmers. Among the aims of the proposal is to ensure large - scale domestic food production, provide food and food security, provide environmentally healthy and nutritious food, rely on farms, increase in sustainable and environmental quality, preserve knowledge, improve research and agriculture education, increase understanding of the importance of agricultural production and preserve land quality. It's even The object of a proposal proposed by the Central Party at the council. Madam President. We need to act quickly. Smaller part of the pro board, where there's a good time. The members of the Central Party, Jónsson and Ísleifsson Isoffason, have suggested that the distribution of customsvota for the next year be temporarily suspended as long as there is room to resolve the situation and prevent the long - term consequences of overexploitation of domestic manufacturers. Thus, the minority, as well as this delay, suggests that the Ministers of a staff of workers who must be assigned proposals on meeting the negative effects of the epidemic and when to advertise to customs. This suggestion is somewhat different and goes beyond the suggestion of the greater portion. We believe, Madam President, that we are facing very serious social difficulties. The future economic depression is one that no one has a clue of how long it will be, but it could be a chronic one. It's totally unclear, Madam President, when the national economy is right. It is absolutely necessary in my mind that special action in support of prayer is required. This is a step toward temporarily delaying the distribution of tollovate, and it will then be considered in a team of work that offers suggestions on what to do in the future. In view of the situation in favour of Icelandic agriculture, we need to take precautions to take.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u130	Madam President. We'll talk here about a case that's time to take it seriously. Despite most of the recent months of the Council for action to deal with the situation of the crown virus epidemic, there has been a great lack of the fact that one of the basics that has certainly been affected by this situation has been exposed to the attention it deserves, I do not speak of in the light of the situation that was prevalent in this article before the epidemic problems were added. I think I'll have to start by going over it a little, so the strange teachings that we heard here in the past don't get overemphasis, what really turns up, and what's going on in these matters. We heard of the idea that customs would be removed, but instead the State would give a direct strength, i.e. that taxpayers would pay for the demolition of tolls. But what does that really mean? This gives rise to the amazing idea - it's very much in the spirit of Action - that Icelandic taxpayers began to strengthen the European Union. Icelandic taxpayers would be put in position to strengthen the EU because when states negotiate between, business contracts, customs contracts, and so on, they don't give up position unless they get something similar. By doing so, they are giving up their interests in the land; it tells them themselves that if they don't ask for anything against it, they are sacrificing interests. It is mainly here in Iceland of countries in the Western world where governments have considered it normal to yield to their positions for nothing or little. These include: referred to climate agreements and agreements for them, in which several Icelandic politicians have somehow felt that it would be right to give up one - sided interviews. They thus yield to the value and interests of the people of the land, and this too has taken place in part in terms of agriculture. But further progress is now being made to suggest that Icelandic taxpayers be added to the European Union by allowing the European Union to import more products without paying toll. In this way, the EU's concentrations return, while taxpayers are expected to improve the damage done here within the country. But that does not solve the problem. As other speakers have noted in this discussion, this does not solve the problem of building up supplies. On the contrary, it adds to the problem. The supplies would continue to grow even more, and the production here would be pulled away, but at least one year, according to their proposals, we are going to pay for it. You must wonder, then,: Is this strength, as I explained, really meant to break the legs of the article to the European Union? So these guys just stop? These are the real consequences of these ideas. It's not as if this is going to come back to a lower price. We have seen, research has asked, especially in Finland, that the decrease in food supply to consumers does not result in consumers; it simply increases the profits of the store. Then you may wonder, " Is this not just Iceland's national strength to the EU but also the store - a very strange idea, and it seems that nothing has been thought of more than one step and not even that? ' It is important to avoid continuing to add to the problem of this article that is already faced with major challenges that governments would have faced much earlier. In this context, I remind you of a situation that I am better involved with below, which is our overall plan for dealing with the situation in Icelandic agriculture, a very broad plan and radically, but what is needed to respond to the situation that has developed. In the present world situation, other countries defend their job and interests, and they have shown in the past that they are ready to use for the purpose that they might not allow themselves on a normal journey or under normal conditions, but now they are making the point that there is a state of emergency. They'll get away with it. They decide to deal with the situation by taking action that might have been objected to under circumstances other than they now get away with. Will we not do the same? Will we alone refrain from taking action as a result of a pandemic situation? It is, in fact, the obligation of the government to take such measures against agriculture, since if we do not now, it will be far more difficult to do so when the vaccine is working and things are beginning to normal. In fact, there was good reason long ago to take action. We have not even mentioned the 2015 customs contract. The Party of the Central Party early in this terms period made a pact proposal to renegotiate or cancel that contract. We have also referred to Britain as being removed from the EU, and this will alter the terms of the agreement. But the point is that this contract has damaged Icelandic agriculture. It does not work as he was introduced, so it is very important to reevaluate or reinvigorate this contract and do it as soon as possible. With regard to agricultural status in the European Union, it was strange - but perhaps not unexpected - to hear admiration. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir on how this is done in the European Union. In fact, it did not get further involved, but agriculture in the EU is especially supported by land space, depending on the amount of land space being below, and human beings are paid not to produce products. As a result, in many cases large companies are the most valuable sources of agricultural support in the European Union. However, the European Union has its market. The Community's market is a major market, but it is probably not a pattern that pleases the Environment that wants us to, as I could before, to make it easier to move to the European Union and thus destroy goods and markets. It's such a crazy idea that I just can't get over it properly. If foreign countries were to pile their excess production into the Icelandic market and kill domestic production, how long does it feel that prices would be reduced? When the national rivalry has been wiped out, do people think that the price will remain as low as it could be? Is it not likely that prices would rise again, apart from what I had previously been able to do, that this simply increases shopping stress? Well, now that I've started these warning words about the projections and the reveries. In these matters, many of those who spoke up in the past have talked about freedom. Then I remind you that strong agriculture is in many ways a means of freedom for a nation. Having one's own food is essential to freedom, for others depend on what is most important, to have enough food. This article is of utmost importance to us, Icelanders to all, economics. It saves a fee of hundreds of billions of dollars a year. I got tired of reminding myself that only over a decade ago in Icelandic agriculture saved the country from bankruptcy when it could not be remembered that we did not have enough currency to import basic necessities, drugs, fuel, and so on. If it hadn't been for the currency savings created by Icelandic agriculture, we'd probably have landed on the wrong side of zero. But thanks has been low in government policy because the article, under thousands of jobs, has been repeatedly confined to some 1,200 jobs in the northeastern region, not just to that but to so many other activities, other occupations, and the inhabited earth itself. If agriculture were not available, settlements in many parts of the country would be removed and this would result in a chain reaction that would be different from the fact that Iceland would become a city in which we relied on imported food from the European Union at the same time as we did in the restoration program, there will be few taxpayers to support the EU. But now, a lot is holding hands, and has done for some time, making the agriculture difficult for. That makes action extremely urgent. These articles will continue to include new regulations. Often, these are policies that are expensive, but a competition for production is at the same time competitive because as it seems, the introduction of European regulations here is higher than elsewhere, and Icelandic farmers need to meet stricter conditions than their rivals in other countries. Food producers in other countries often run, as is known, not a family nest, but a factory, a major food industry. In addition to laying the groundwork for agriculture, economic agreements have been designed to draw up the article. The work contract I mentioned earlier has proved to be very burdensome. In fact, the government's budget showed at the beginning of the government's view of agriculture. There was farming, including farmers, the only industry where no additional donations were expected to be made through the terms of the term. On the contrary, contributions were expected to decline year after year. This, of course, is reflected in the ideal farmers. While all the other classes that the State buys services have more or less gained substantial pay increases in recent years, there has been a growing level of money and one branch, agriculture. It is added to allow the import of raw, unpreserved meat and non-adversive food from countries where production conditions are not as good as here and production costs are lower, except that it opens up the increased import from countries using antibiotics and growth hormone and other medicines much more than used in Icelandic agriculture, where they are very rare - while this is a rule rather than an exception. But this is what Icelandic farmers are supposed to compete on in increasing numbers. Also, products have continued to decrease, and finally this pandemic crown virus is added. All of this is just a description of a state of emergency in this basic work that has preserved lives in the population since treason, an important feature of our safety, and a foundation around the country. Because the government's advisers are talking about environmental protection these days, it can also be reminded that something of the best we can do for the environment is to support Icelandic food production and to take greater amounts of Icelandic food, not to mention such measures as forestry. But not at all, Madam President, going to shovel in the swamps. By means of the European Community, where landowners would be strengthened for not producing in the country, they might be mapped in ditches and thus destroyed in terms of breeding potential. It may be that the future view that those who seem to allow this article to evict, start paying landowners, and all those foreign landowners who have collected land, for their lack of production and shoveling into the ditches. It's not the prospect of a future for me or us in the Middle Ages. That's why we put up the plan that I only mentioned earlier. A number of teams there have an overall proposal to solve the problem of Icelandic agriculture and, at the same time, the possibility of making use of the tool, of turning to the target. The first step is that governments will no longer press the article, take action that will address the emergency that is right now. An important point in this is to postpone the distribution of tollovate before 2021, as suggested in the transitional program. Councilmen of the Sigurður of Páll, son of Jónsson, and Ólafur, son of Ísleifsson. It is extremely important that this proposal be agreed and that in this crisis it will not be necessary to send tollovata while the countries all around us are defending their agriculture. It would really be a disgrace if Iceland was to stand out as a matter of this, if we, with this important matter of emergency protection, intended to correct the problem. You can't do that, Madam President. It is simply a matter of evaluating whether to renegotiate the tax agreement or simply to resign. Now's the time to take action. If we do not do so now, it will be more expensive and more difficult as time passes before it will come to no return. It will be too late to repent when we see, in effect, the effect of allowing an Icelandic agricultural system to disappear. Now is the time for the offensive and the protection for this fundamental thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u131	Madam President. There have been a number of interesting and interesting matters to listen to the discussion that has been conducted on the bill for the distribution of tollovata. At first, I'd like to stop at a two-whide. Congressmen I listened to with great interest. First of all, it was the farmer's chief. 1st. Witchest. "Easy, Haraldur the son of Benediktsson. I hope I can say, Mr. President, that I felt like a bit of a dog in it. For some reason, he had a corner in the page a very good move made by the middle-class members, or two of our fine members, have submitted here to delay the publication of tollovate. I am now so naive, Mr. President, that I thought the peasant prince would jump his height in armor and rejoice that such a proposal had come to pass, but it was just a bad night. A senator over this. Perhaps it is because he would have liked to recite this Lilja himself would have given him peace and support. That may well be so. Perhaps it causes him to feel sick. I think it would be much closer to what happened. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson to join us in this matter. As has been attributed to a few talks, the proposal made by two of our fine senators and the rest of the group is behind, due to the condition now existing because of the Covid-19 virus, not only here but throughout the entire world. I also listened attentively to one another. A senator, and that was a problem. 7. We're out of Suðvest. "The Þorgerður of Katrín, daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, who is also chairman of the Archipelago. She waved to the problems of the flag of freedom and wanted to compete. Now I speak as a representative of the consumers and of an old peasant friend, who has run what is known today as the slaughterhouse. I've been working for farmers for a very long time, and I know their terms perfectly. All of them were the old - fashioned theme of the night. A senator, chairman of the Archipelago, spoke here. The problem is this, Mr. President: Contest love and freedom hose End at a certain point, end up at the products station or the so-called middle force, as the Chairman of the Archipelago called it a business. It ends with competitive love and the desire for freedom. That's a good one. A senator, chairman of Recession, says that she insists on improving the ideal farmers - and that's respectable, and I believe it and trust it - by fighting the so - called intermediate or products. But that's what I'm talking about. A senator is willing to launch into a store that has 60% market share. She does not wave her competitive flag there, nor does she speak of her desire for freedom there. If there was some meaning behind the words of a competition, the race would provide a real bill for a change in competitive law because of the compression of a retail market and there would be genuine competition with love and the desire for freedom. But it's not for distribution, Mr. President, it's not happening. I'm going again to say, Mr. President, I've told you in this chair several times, that I'm still going to meet with a potato farmer who has the balls to come by his name and tell him what he's going to get from a supermarket in Reykjavík. I still have to see him. And then you talk about the middle. As it happens, I'm not here as some local tracker rather than any other company, but it was shown in a report that the Institute of Economics worked to keep the milk industry under competitive law has caused about 3 billion dollars. will be created for a year's savings between farmers and consumers. The jealous attitude of Jónasson, a former senator, of the fine and upright man, expressed it better than that of many others I have heard. It's so simple, it's gonna make some 3 billion a year and it's gonna be between consumers and farmers. That is the advantage of the milk industry's ability to work together as a team. But many people now jump forward and feel that what is suggested here, including the highest. Agricultural minister suggests, if the price for consumers is high. This includes the chairman of the Neythal Association, who sent us delegates very politely and lovingly mailed them. I admit, Mr. President, I haven't answered the mail yet, and maybe it's okay that I just do it here and now. I know that the Neycessary Association is paying close attention, and I would appreciate that the head of the Navigator Association sent us another mail with information about how much imported agricultural products dropped the last time a decommissioned toll in Iceland. I would very much appreciate the information on price development on, e.g. Imported bull lice or anything like that before and over the time until now, when we are putting restrictions on tollovata. We've been shot somewhere else, too. I saw by chance only when I was on my way to this platform that the director of the employment drivers'Social Services accused them of taking the business of some particular member of the agricultural community. I say again, Mr President, I'm not here to be a tracker of one company or two in agriculture. However, it would be very good if the executive director of the employment team told us what these fine consumers were thinking that for a few months now brought in cheese and a loss on the wrong toll parties. It would be fascinating to find out, and this subject is now for a better consideration. I come about a little later, but it would be interesting for everyone involved, especially for us who is supposed to be walking the business of some unsure person or company or company, if the executives of the professional society could inform us about the interests of being protected when this product was brought into the wrong toll class, because it was certainly brought into the wrong toll class. If not, the consumer market has become a revolution in the last two months. I don't know if the President is aware of this, but it seems that the month of January through August was brought in over 30 to 50 tons per month of unemployed cheese. It may be that as soon as the import of this product has been investigated, it must have been sold. This is probably the greatest revolution in eating habits I've ever heard of in a very long time. Suddenly, the 30 tons a month were two tons. This is how consumers responded, or what? No, Mr. President, I don't think that's the point. I just think they took their hand down in the cakecan and saw it when they touched it. There is good reason to review this import carefully, and the person currently present has just asked a question and has opened a number of beach questions about the Minister's inquiry, both in the past and in the future. In that request, I request a comparison of the products of tollovate on the specified agrienvironment products and imports of the same products to see how men are meeting the tollovitas that have been released in the past few years and miss. To tell you the truth, I'm waiting a bit excited to see an answer to this inquiry, and I hope it comes within three years. I have now experienced the need to seek answers to questions for three years. I hope this comes sooner because we need to know, Mr. President. And we need to know if there's anything in the evidence that has been transferred meat on bone, e.g. beef that has been transported into clean muscles. I hope it's under investigation, Mr. President. To tell you the truth, when you move in beef on bone, the meat ratio against the bones is 60 to 40, but it's as I put it. If the transport of clean muscles to this site has been accomplished as meat on bone, then about 40% is transferred to the imported level. Now I'm talking about the conditions that were here in the country before the arrival of Covid. If it is so, as has been claimed, that this place has been brought meat in this way itself, it says that these same immigrants' freezers are now quite swollen by such meat that I suspect they will throw into the market - because we do not say "smooth platts," Mr. President - with subs. You expect that to happen. This was the situation for the Covid problem. It was being moved in through the wrong record with a perfectly perfect profit boost for those who moved in here. Just so I give an example, because it's been made public, it's been brought in the last cell a hundred and twenty-five months, 300 tons of cheese on the wrong toll record. It has been officially stated that this is a loss of income for a government fund of 300 million. K. It has been officially stated that this is the annual production of a total of 101⁄215 cows. Besides, the cheese was for pies. I don't suppose they've been sold with 300 million. K. a discount in the last 12◯18 months, Mr. President. If this has been brought in, it is a three - fold offense; it is a violation of a government fund, a violation of farmers, and it is a violation of consumers. This is what it was before Covid came into existence. What has been done after the Covid situation? Yes, all of our neighboring countries are sponsoring their agriculture. It is proper to consider that the last number I handled for the European Union's support of their agriculture was $83 billion a year. This is the largest single currency of the European Union's spending e - mail for any part. So those who are engaged in this trade are competing with subsidized agricultural equipment. There are not many articles I can remember that are in direct foreign competition that enjoy Stateism. I don't remember. But what have we Icelanders done right now in these last and worst times for a company that is in international competition? Yes, we have greatly strengthened them. Well, then I'd like to, for example. to do a business like Icellands and I truly agree, Mr. President, that such things should be done, and if I remember correctly, I have supported all the suggestions that have been presented here in this room that the business and other companies that are involved in international relations or commerce are assisted in some way. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Now it's time for agriculture, i.e. to support him now that we are 11 months into this epidemic, and so far we don't have a finger to support him, not hard to deal with. By supporting agriculture, we are not just supporting farmers, and we are not just supporting products, we are naturally supporting consumers. We're making it possible for people to buy high prices, and we're making sure that this country has food security. It is now that when food security was spoken of here in the past, humans snooped until, for example. In 2008, when they suddenly found out that we were on the run to live with imported drugs, we had food because we made food. And when things are normal in the world, we are not just making food for ourselves. Each senator has been getting up for the past few weeks to have a largely improved supply of food, which is absolutely correct. Of course we should. The world needs to eat, and someday the sun will be seen again. Will we arrange for the agriculture to be completely on our knees and not be able to take advantage of the situation when it gets better? Not the one standing here, Mr. President. That's not gonna happen. And not the Central Party, he's not going to stand for it at all. I say again: If it's true that some members of the council are struggling with what they call the party's command on this matter, I'd like them to think only of, read the proposal set out here and to help them instead of having a dog's head and talk about the middle-class members being no savior angels to farmers. The person standing here isn't quite so grown that he can fit in, so it doesn't matter. The important thing is to stand by this sector for the 11 months that has lasted, and will stand a little longer, so that Icelandic farmers will be on their way again to receive what they do best, to produce fines for the benefit of everyone. That's what this is all about, Mr. President. That's what's suggested, for that reason, the Middle Party's motion has been submitted, and I challenge the senators to take care of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-16-39.u132	President. I recommend a very short and small matter, which is not a great matter. The Environment and Transport Committee has joined together to transport. It reads, with president's permission: - Uh-huh. - In place of the annual year, the provision of temporary regulations in the law is: 2021. 2.g. This law already comes into effect.◯ President. As indicated above, the timing of temporary road laws is only being changed. We've set up about a few hours ago. a year thereafter, a provisional law in which we gave more time to negotiate how the so - called return roads are moved from a country to a rural society. The road should be constructed and the maintenance of highways designed for free transport by the public, but rural areas should oversee rural roads, i.e. roads that don't count as highways. When a road law was set in 2007, the definitions of a single type of highway were changed that led to some of the roads previously considered to be to highways in urban areas fell outside the definition and no longer being heard under the road structure. Since the year 2007, treaties have been in place to move this road from the road to the rural community and the total length of these roads, as being 5 5.6 miles [5.6 km]. A year ago, we did the same thing, set temporary regulations, and gave sides a year to make deals. This was done by a declaration of will by which the Ministry, the Road Building, the Union of Civil Society in the capital area and the Union of Icelandic rural society would sign. The Declaration of Will has not been signed as a result of a disagreement on the subject, but these topics have been discussed. This is now 39.2 miles [9.2 km] of return road, of which 25.7 are in the capital area. President. We had a meeting of the Committee with our representatives from the Company Association in the capital area, the Union of Iceland, the Roadmaker and the Ministry. Everyone agreed that conversation was quite successful. It would simply take more time, so the committee united in the process of delivering this issue. If the bill is legalized, the road structure will continue at this time the cost of destabilizing roads that took place when the law went into force until the transfer was completed, but no longer until the end of 2021, and people will have the time to negotiate this transfer. At the end, I would like to thank especially the rural areas in the capital area and their organisations for initiating their members and pointing to them, as well as the Department of Vega and the Ministry for their rapid and immediate response. It's very simple, Mr. President. Participants were given years to settle the matter. They did not quite succeed, and they need more time, and this will work out with them for the next year.
