ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u1	Madam President. Yeah, it's an interesting point of view. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir mentions. But it was on purpose that I went that way in my speech to talk about the broad lines. Simply put, many questions arise in this bill. I'll mention, for example, that a report has to be followed. In many places, it is not in the praxize of charges and can easily become burdensome. Because of what? A senator specifically asks about the administrative law then I also noticed in the review of the Red Cross, which was that my mind knows both thoroughly and well done, and for that matter I would simply say that this is one of several concerns that the bill reflects in its entirety and always comes down when the paper with the bill is read and what it tells us. That's right, like the highest. A minister mentioned, the importance of people, especially in difficult circumstances, getting their answers quickly. But the efficiency as reflected there only beats me in another way, as I said before, that the answers will be increasingly negative, that efficiency is about it, and that efficiency is being drawn up by a system that is primarily guided by the reduction in the number of people available here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u2	Mr. President. I've had some concerns, sort of since 2013, the respect the senators have shown for this hall, and this workplace goes a long way from year to year. All of this began because, in my opinion, people were allowed to walk around here without wearing their necks but then things have gone worse, and now it is known that the General Assembly of Iceland is less demanding of clothing than Costco because they are not allowed there unless they wear a coat and shoes. I must say, Mr. President, it is time to pause and resist. I challenge senators to tie on their shoes and put on a plate before entering the Senate Hall and showing these halls and those who work with them minimal respect. Of course, you cannot expect everyone to have self - respect, but it clearly lacks much in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u3	Mr. President. After all, it was. I suggest that a member of the council decide whether to be dedicated and not to a person, whether to follow the tradition of the higher class in the 19th century, or to wear comfortable clothing, preferably washed and tidy. Of course, it is mostly that men, and all of us, could speak up and be reasonably polite to one another, at least When appropriate. So I refer to the Fatherhouses that the respect of the Generals is in some way related to whether people are here wearing a tie or on their shirt even and don't think that they necessarily fell by the fact that one or two members of Congress decided to stay on their socks.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u4	President. It also matters that you feel good and that you are comfortable at work. I get it, so I get it. A senator is referring to what. paritaprevir Björn Leví, Gunnarsson, who's here on the socks. I know that many ministers abroad and other members of Congress do the same because they feel comfortable, and this helps them to feel at work well. I think it's superficial to talk about wearing shoes and wearing clothes properly. I'd rather have thought that when it comes to the respect of the council and the respect of our profession, it's more important not to do things like go blind drunk and say bad things about women and desperate people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u5	Mr. President. Of course, our conduct in this room and elsewhere is important. I've never pulled a feather over it, but I'm not prepared here to relax the rules so that we end up walking around like Andrés önd and associates. I'm not ready for that, Mr. President, and whatever anyone says, I have that faith and some experience that if you're fit to go, not just as if they're taking out the trash, it'll lend them and what they do, say, perform, make a certain number that will be lost at any other cost. I restate on the fact that, of course, what we do and say is important, but the latest incident in the scapegoat is if I don't skim, and that doesn't work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u6	So on the 1st session, an overdose has passed since the distribution of the Committee's opinion and the change in it and so on the 5th part that it is distributed after April 1 and therefore needs to be agreed to take it on. The president's opinion is that if no one objects, variations will agree. Since no one acts against us and strains are approved, they can put matters in place later in this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u7	Mr. President. I hereby recommend the Economic and Business Committee's assessment of bill for further measures to face economic impacts following a pandemic crown virus on deck. 1322. The bill is another factor in government action because of the economic events brought on by the Covid-19 pandemic. The job is intended to help and protect companies as well as individuals and to provide employment resistance when the job situation breaks down. As the above mentioned above, the committee received a number of comments and also received numerous members of the committee, which I merely quote the committee's opinion. The main focus of the bill is the delay of taxpayers, tax remuneration, tax treatment and post-impliatory debt to law-employers and sector-employees, growth of innovations, remuneration of valuables tax to rural society, collection of biosaturation sources, income-based farm members and temporary payments for the pay of persons who are incurred, as well as financial support to the public media. As mentioned in the opinion of the committee, the Commission makes quite a number of adjustments, and I'm going to review some of the main suggestions. Other than that, I refer to the written committee opinion. It is important to note that a new set of laws is included in the bill regarding the stress log and its contribution. In view of present - day circumstances, it is not desirable for the tax to be obligatory to provide a list of pressures for each rural society, following this year's tax work as a result of earnings of 2019, and it is recommended to add a new provisional law. The most important points in the proposals of the Committee are support to innovation. The Commission feels that it is right to change the proportion of taxes and the maximum financial value, with the goal of further supporting the Icelandic innovation environment and providing a change in 2.g. The bill for that. On the calculation of tax recovery, there will be only one maximum financial level of 1,100 million at stress in 2021 and 2022 due to research and development costs. Of these, innovation companies will be permitted, but not obliged, to include research and development costs up to 200 million. K. for buying a service. At the same time, there will be step distinctions, which include SMEs, as defined by Article 1 and 2. the law on support of a innovation company, may be entitled to tax recovery of up to 35% of the total cost of confirmed projects in terms of the time of provisional principle which is added to the law under 2 g. The bill. Big company, like number 8 of 3. g., a tax deduction that will be able to obtain 25% of an investment during the period, as was suggested in the bill. Then there is a new provision for the bill, and I think it was safe to say that it was very supportive of the committee. These proposals aim to increase the incentive for individuals to invest in innovation. The reviews of the European Commission's Association of Games and the Ridingrods Association emphasized the importance of such funding for small societies in developing activity. The increase in tax returns to individuals in these areas is likely to have little impact on the financial resources. With reference to the above, therefore, the Committee suggests that taxes are made to individuals because of investments in a partner or a private partner who meets the criteria of 2 and 3 mg. 1st Figures b-tes 1.mg. 30. g. on income taxes temporarily increase from 50% to 75% of investments, taking into account other legal requirements. At the same time, the 10 million to 15 million levels increase temporarily. Changes are being made to the access of pension funds to own up to 35% instead of 20%, as is currently share certificates or items in funds for a common investment in small and medium-sized innovation enterprises, under the legislation to support innovation companies. For the Committee it came up with the view that a general reference to the legislation on support of a innovation enterprise was designed to limit the resources of the pensions to investments in innovation and to increase complexity. That was even. The unanimous attitude of the representatives of the Pension Funds and the National Union of Pension Funds that visited the Committee. It would be preferable to refer to the definition of SMEs, such as Article 1 and 2. The law. It would be better to support an enterprise that could become an ideal site for growth and innovation. The committee agrees with these views and suggests appropriate adjustments. In addition, there was a view to whether the warrant should be non-term or longer than three years old, especially in view of the fact that it may take some time to set up such investment funds and that operators might rather take advantage of the opportunities of space rules. To meet these views, the Committee suggests a change in the time of sources 4. the bill that translates it to January 1, 2025. In this regard it should be noted that the National Union of Pension Treasures believed that this should not be timed, but in view of what we are doing and all that we have been doing, the principle is that we take time to take these measures so that the Lawgiver should decide later on whether humans want to do so. Significant changes were made on Article 9. The bill responsible for regulations for the Minister of Education due to special management support to the special media. The objective of the changes made in a special carton was better and more clear, depending on the rules and criteria of the minister to take care of the regulations necessary to set up for this special management support. Other than that, I refer to a written committee opinion. Then there is a new article in the bill proposed by the Committee and in accordance with the bill for budgetary support, assuming a total of 250 million in artist's payroll, in view of the epidemic's impact on independent artists. The amount of money that makes possible for artists can be assured of a salary that corresponds to 600 monthly rates in addition to the 1,600 divided by 2020, with the same ratio as set to 6,◯11. par. Law on Artist's Prize, No. 57/2009. In view of this, the commission suggests that in terms of the artist's wages, there is a temporary improvement in the temporary increase in the total number of the 2020 workers from 1,600 to 2,200. There is also a new article on the monopoly for microenergy and rehabilitation pensioners. With a floor 21. track No. 25/2020 was added to social security laws that require special payment on disability and rehabilitation. The provision refers to individuals who were granted their December in 2019, under the regulations of a single payment for a pensioner in 2019 C.E. However, it has been observed that to ensure that no one falls between panels during that procedure, they also need to be referred to individuals entitled to orlofs supplementation in 2020 according to 1 mg. 2.g. The 2020 Secret Service Regulation. The Commission therefore proposes the adjustment of its content to the 23rd issue of a provisional law on social security. I think I've explained some of the basic changes I thought were appropriate for attention. I'd also like to draw attention to the fact that it's a tip from the Commission to the highest level. Economic and economic Ministers on certain limitations of the definition of the term'fiscal problem', under the Regulation for supporting innovation companies, No. 758/2011, which may affect whether companies have the right to tax recovery from research and development. The Commission therefore aims to review the definition of the Regulation in accordance with the relevant indications. in the review of KPMG. Hv. The members of Jón Valdimarsson, Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and Smári Mccarthy sign this opinion in advance. He is a material person, and he acts, and he is part of this committee party, and I suppose he is. Parliamentaries are particularly aware of this. In fact, there are also some forms of change from a few years ago. Congress on this bill. I'd like to thank the members at the end for your cooperation. It wasn't always simple, but we managed to get together eventually. None of us achieved everything, but it's just that life sometimes is. In view of the above, the Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed to a special Senate document, and I have also stated that there are other forms of change here. Under this heading, write why. The men of Óli Kárason, the son of Hammira, who stands by the way of his name, Jehobber the Steindór of Níelsson, Brubbish the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter, in advance, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, in advance, Smári Mccarthy, in advance, and Willum Þórsson Tursson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u8	Mr. President. Truly, we are living in an unusual time, and people are coping with challenging assignments, so that no more is said, both in businesses and in their homes. People are concerned about their health and family members, and they are also concerned about the economy. Therefore, President, it is necessary that we at the Generals offer and also submit proposals from the government to face this great problem. This is where we've been taking in big, complex cases and working them on committees, making adjustments in their plans, and then finishing them. But now, President, we lack a perspective on the cooperation of the government has made and has proclaimed that it will continue until next week. The effects of long-term, shorter-term action on employment, domestics in the country, welfare systems, and government funds must be evaluated. It is long time to call for financial advice appointed to economic experts and to have a legal obligation to the General. Money Council's on the 10th floor. the law on government finance to appreciate the need for a government to establish new financial policies and programmes when presupposed and provide a report to the General. Before proceedings continue, and other measures presented by the government for the release of the Generalis, such an assessment must be made. President. I would like to quote here on bill to legalize public finances, which became the law of No. 123/2015. It says in comment on financial advice, on permission of the president: It is important to ensure that the level of objective assessment is as important as possible on the basis of government financial policies. Hence, the change is suggested that financial advisers determine whether financial and financial policies are in line with baseline values listed at 2 mg. Section 6. The bill and the financial rule, according to Article 7. The bill. At the same time, the bill assumes that financial legislation will determine whether financial planning and implementation are in accordance with financial policy. To ensure public transparency and access to the results of the Council, it should be published publicly. The active management of public funds depends on the availability, basis, implementation and impact of economic policies in general. To be effective in the management of government funds, coordination and coordination of these factors are required. The role of a financial body is to identify this interaction, to determine whether it is logical and to meet the requirements of baseline and financial order, and to make financial policy available. Economic Council is primarily a professional guide that employs the most widely accepted methodology for economic analysis and logical support for its opinions. The Council should promote transparency in a discussion of public financial development. Regardless of the opinion of a financial body, it is fundamental in this context. These are comments to the bill on public financial laws that we agreed on here at the General Assembly in 2015. When, if not now, would there be reason to call for financial advice and ask for expert opinion, ask for support for action, or simply evaluate it? Of course, we do know that financial policies need to be adopted, but we still need support for how we should continue and evaluate the measures taken by the government and their interactions. A financial adviser may help us to look into the future and see how we can handle these matters. Although most people are merely thinking about not getting infected with the virus, even living a week to a week in companies and households, it is clear that governments are trying to foresee the future even though uncertainty is high. I hope, therefore, that financial council will be convened. In fact, a request has been made on both the budget and the Economic and Business Committee. President. The changes made by the Economic and Business Committee to the bill we're discussing here are sure to improve, and we're supporting them in the United States. Yet, perhaps there could have been further developments, such as further increases in innovation, research, and employment development. The changes made are improving and improved beyond the bill, which is the innovation and development of the economy that will get us out of this problem, so it's normal to make a big contribution. I hope it will be done even more in the future. Sadly, the alternative known as work still has a gender balance. We discussed this much on the committee, and the conclusion became that there was a particular problem, yet ideas are presented in the Ministry opinion to consider a temporary tax rate. Tax sea, demurrements, and IRS have also been discussed in the Committee. We in the Union feel that it is necessary to set strict limits on the provisional regulations and changes in the laws adopted by Covid-19 and that it is safe and clear that they do not apply to individuals or lawyers with registered ownership in debation or low tax areas or to enterprises owned by an ethnic partner or partners registered in a low tax area. You can point to 57th par. a on income taxes in this respect. It must be clear on our part that now when companies receive assistance from a government fund, from our common fund, we make the claim that those who accept that assistance did not cheat on taxes, do not have any bugs in taxes, or do we own deportations. We need to find out more clearly how to set these requirements. I hope that it will be done in the next financial and business payment on the next few matters. You also need to watch, for example. They're wearing glasses. We have a clear requirement in the United States for government control of financial and commercial systems to ensure that there will be no questionable business, marketing, or military fraud in today's miserable state. Unfortunately, Madam President, although we'd like to trust the people around us and most people to be trusted, most of us can't be trusted. But the big observation we have in the United States is that it's not specifically about homes. We know that many homes, like an enterprise, are affected by much, and most of the country's population will experience a worsening economy during the epidemic. Therefore, governments must face temporary business problems, such as companies. Children need special attention, especially those who have lost a lot of money because of this situation. Today, child - making payments are based on pay of 2019 C.E., giving the wrong impression of the situation of those who have lost their job. That's why I feel that changing the criteria for child reform should be made on June 1. and October 1 of this year, based on the current family situation. There may be some technical problems with that, but there must be a way in this computer age we live on, e.g. Payback of children's pay in April on June 1. Residing the prize in 2019 is usually not the right thing to do. The reference work that the government has emphasized to follow and agreeing to in the Senate hall is that if a husband and wife have 625,000, whether or not there will be no pedophiles in the home. Today, many have been living up to that goal in 2019 C.E. We in the United States provide a change in unemployment proposal. I would like to criticize the government's top because I don't want to talk about raising unemployment improvements and say, "It's not time to go into those psalms because people haven't set up basic employment benefits. But that's just wrong. When the virus brought us home, it was for example. And now, Mr. President, the figures are moving toward 30% in that area. Of course, it depends on how quickly the recruitment relationship has been, and when we figure out who are out of work, we're not counting the people who are on notice. It's not in these numbers. So, of course, we need to raise our unemployment rates. Our proposal in the United States is highly moderate, so we set it up so that it would be more likely that the government would agree with it. First of all, instead of getting 70% of the total wage, people get 100% from June 1 to December 31, 2020, of course, to a peak of 456,000 rates of income - related unemployment. We suggest it goes to up to 516,000. from June 1 to December 31. And why do we do that? Because 456,000 K. there is no connection with the development of pay in the country. Therefore, we want to establish this standard by law to two thirds of the 2019 averages. At that time, this figure, 516,000, which is not high when a household faces a major loss of income, is paid, and is paid for a fixed cost of household business. Then we suggest that basic non-employment be increased by the number of dollars in the biographies agreements compared to the lowest salary. This is a normal requirement. Then the basic non-employment benefits would be 289,510k. Up to 314,720. Of course, no one lives on that amount, but it is more than 25,000. Better than basic employment benefits are now, and the greater part of the government has so far not wanted to rise. It's about $25,000. when there is little in the wallet. Fourth, we propose a suggestion that I will ask for a vote to be specially paid. Although the administrative body cannot agree to raise the need for unemployment, which is really incredible, I hope they can at least consider raising the proportion of children's families. As I told you before, basic non-employment is 289,000. In each child, the monthly and forward is 4% of the amount given is 11,000. every month with each child under 18 years of age. So people who have basic uncooperative benefits with four children are closer to the minimum wage of 335,000. during a month, it is necessary to make a living on a small amount of money that is below minimum when the children are three or fewer. This is what I think every man sees can't walk. This is also an initially adjusted increase. If we take the criteria on unemployment insurance law from 4% to 6%, it'll give 17.370 bucks. with each child, the increase may not be very high, but it does not count that amount. For this part, votes will be paid separately when we take away the dues, and I hope that people take special note of the children who have lost their jobs. Finally, our last move in the United States is that unemployment improvements must be paid to the students between June 1 and August 31, i.e. that students who don't get jobs get unemployment benefits. This is the same requirement as students themselves have stressed. We in the Union will see that it is necessary and accept it, and we hope that the more part will accept that proposal when we cancel the adjustment proposals. President. Finally, in the United States, we encourage the bill for the increase of pension to the level of the lowest scale of the biographer agreement to be agreed as soon as possible. The bill was one of the Union's priorities. That was the case in September. and has been on a welfare committee to treat, allowing it to slow down the household. There's been reviews, there's been a discussion on the committee, and it's simple to settle the case from the committee and here into the Senate Hall for approval. President. This is as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u9	V.E.G. President. Thank you. An excellent speech, and I'm going to make it clear at the outset that I agree with it. A member of the council in particular, who made good progress here, the importance of overlooking measures. This, of course, is very special. The senator went well at the beginning of a speech, we're here doing fast taxing measures, here is another tapeworm in a short time and in the context of the increased budgets we'll discuss tomorrow. I agree, however, that we need to have some evaluation of the measures and the proposed impact on the economy and society. Hv. A senator was well - versed in the role of a financial body, as it is written in the public financial law. I've missed it a bit, especially now in the situations we're working on and working fast to deal with the situation, that we have just this person who makes us an objective assessment of action. I have had a good experience that when we receive this objective estimate of policy and plan, it becomes a major focus of all discussions and makes it a much more professional. However, I feel that the law lacks to write in details about this role, even more extensive. That's my question last year. A senator: Don't we need to examine it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u10	Mr. President. The short answer to this is: Yes, we do. When we were working with a bill on government finance committee at the time, and we talked about somehow making sure that this situation could fail - something happens in the business world, it's a failure, it's a national problem - we didn't see exactly this situation coming. When I began to look this up right now, I started thinking about what we've had, like, a great trinket that's been talking to us every day, public security and the governor's general, and in all the uncertainty, it makes you feel good to hear them, and you know that even though they know everything can happen and all that, the steps are taken with their professional evaluations. As a result, I began to study the laws on public finance and the role of financial advisers, and as a result, I found that it was so difficult to do so. A senator and chairman of the legal committee, that is not entirely clear. Of course, that is clearly stated in Article 10. that if a government claims to take up its policy on the financial Council to help us determine if there is a reason for doing so and if financial advice says that there is no reason for that, the government will just continue to work out how the financial strategy can live. However, it is not clear how a financial body should take the initiative in such a situation and appear before the council. It needs to be written in, I agree.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u11	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer is, and I'd like to agree that we're here to examine it. Then I'd like to take the question a little further, because we're now in the first action, tax action and increased spending clearances, responding to the situation. In addition, the project will continue to focus on innovation and development, and it will likely be useful in reducing unemployment rapidly and preventing long - term loss of employment. You will wonder, then, from this assessment that, at the same time, the project will have to restore the balance of pay and money. It'll be a hell of a job. I've only looked at Denmark. I know that we're working on public financial laws, so we looked up to the Swedish financial Council. The Danish Economic Council has an extensive role, much larger, and is composed of practically every sector, industry and public sector, etc. They give objective assessments twice a year, both in the state and in the economy, and I think we should look at them for a little. To form in the circumstances that are now, they keep writing reports and giving the assessment of the situation, and I have to say, a respectable president, that I miss it here. That is why I wanted to take that part out of my speech. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný Harðardóttir daughter because I think it's very important. Of course, that's often the way things are when you're so lucky, you forget these important things when you're thinking them. But I think we should learn from this and do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u12	Mr. President. I agree with that. Now, I don't know exactly how the Danish Council works, but in all of this I've missed National Economic Organization, and it's a good thing to review it here that in the report written after the collapse, it was said that it would be appropriate for us to have such an institution and the Council Committee to discuss the study report specifically that we should set up such an institution and that it should be heard under the General Assembly. That's exactly what conjugal council member Valgart Bjarnadóttir did about the bill that didn't get sound base, and we did it back at the 146th legislature. It just so happens that I've been thinking so much about it the way I do. A Senator: How can we learn from this? What is it we need, what is it the General needs in such a situation? We're the legislatures, we're funding and we have to make big decisions, but we need to have perspective and if we had a national interest, and if we had a family - I don't care if people are sensitive to it - something that the U.S.A. would appreciate the status twice a year or so and give us a report and could work with financial advice when the Ministers value financial policy and financial planning. Of course, such an institution should be heard under the General Assembly, and after all, I have decided to submit this matter again. Then I hope. A senator will be with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u13	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, chairman of the Committee, had a fine story in which he considered the work of the Committee and the changes made on the bill. I'd like to say that the work on the Committee has been exemplary in many ways, and there people have exchanged opinions and tried to fix and improve the bill, and I think it worked. I think we can be happy with that. As mentioned in the case of the Chairman of the Committee, I sign the opinion of the committee that I am on in advance. It means that I'm making adjustments, and I made it clear to the committees so that nobody is surprised, about what I believe, is able to improve the bill, i.e. new regulations, as well as adjustments to the requirements that were changed or not changed to the committee. All these changes are good, but I want to go further. I think, at the beginning, it's true to say that there's no news that our situation in economic affairs is very difficult and uncertain. Therefore, action that is short - term and that will definitely take on immediate and immediate action will need to be taken to reduce the damage caused by businesses and families and our financial system. At the same time, it is vital that we make bold dating decisions in which we look to the future. It's absolutely necessary, and I think a man might be able to say: we now have to put 80% of our energy into the modern world, but we have to put at least that. 20% in the future. And the future will come. Our problem is that our economy, despite everything that is very few. We have not been able to strengthen the economy with a variety of career support. This makes it possible that when we rely on so few things, few branches, more events, and more of these, they will be more common and more frequent. We've always told ourselves when we're down to this kind of tragedy, and all our counselors always tell us: you have to make some changes, you've got to make a business and a business in the country that's built on diversity, intelligence, technology that you can move out to the same level as other exporting products. We've set off on this kind of trip, but we haven't made it. That is why we put on a restoration of enormous importance on innovation. That is certainly done in this bill, and what is well done should not be remembered. But it must go even further if we are going to make real changes in the long run. Therefore, we make proposals, adjustments suggestions, that we give more assistance to smaller innovations. We increase the support they receive through a tax charge, and we also suggest that the roof on which companies are put can obtain such discounts. The proposals of this committee now assume that there will be 1,100 million. We think it should go further. Still, we are modest and say that it should be raised to 1.5 billion. What is as important as all of this is that actions of this kind must be non-term. In fact, new creation is a long - distance race, requiring long - term thinking. There is no intention of stimulating innovation by temporary short action. Although they're good in themselves, they don't support believing it and trusting that we're really creating an environment for the first-class innovation. Hence, it must go further and make bold decisions in this regard. One of the suggestions in this bill is a change in insurance. The worst thing that can happen to our society is that the unemployment that has now been buried and chronically occurring. It is the worst that can happen to us, and we need to resist it by means of general action. Hence, in the first place, we take repairs for six months to cover the latter part of this year and include that each company pays 75% of the legal insurance fees. This is certainly a public procedure, but it means that public, economic, and economic activities can increase. It reduces the risk of a person being dumped, and it encourages management with potentially successful companies. Of course, it is very important that companies who are doing well and who can be even more concerned and more staff, and this is part of it. It is assumed that the second part of the proposal will apply to one year, to the middle of the next year, and it involves that the companies employing people who are unemployed pay in the period of one year, from the middle of this year to the middle of the year to the middle of the next year, only 25% of insurance bills. We feel that by doing so, it will be guaranteed - perhaps too strong a word - or that there will be a great increase in the likelihood that there will be more companies who employ people who are unemployed and thereby provide income and security. Granted, such a course may cost you a lot, but the cost of being unemployed, the change in social status even for a longer time, is even greater. Therefore, it is necessary to be bold. You have to make big decisions. What is good about such surgery is that it is very simple. It can be performed without warning. Nothing has to be changed in the systems, at least not on the first recommendation. In view of the second suggestion, I think it's extremely easy to find out which company is in charge of unemployment. It's transparent. This is fast and effective, and I think it would be a lot of luck if we could take that kind of step. These are the two key suggestions we offer here for changing this bill. Of course, it has to do with the budget and other measures to take. There we give exactly the same emphasis; more injection in innovation and development, fighting unemployment, preparing systematically for many of the next few years of life so that it can be performed quickly and effectively, and you do not have to wait until the project is completed. We're supposed to have them ready, and we need to work at that. In the end, I'd like to mention that we're also going to put up ideas about this - which is still linked to unemployment and to increasing and increasing activity - that government resources to provide considerable funds for public institutions and government companies to recruit good and good staff, also reaching the private market so that the companies can employ students with support, as the federal institutions do. However, it is important for companies to be able to carry out their assignments and students to get a job outside of getting a student working for a private company instead of a government agency, the government costs only half as much in financial expenditure. This needs to be done. Once again, we want us to take action that is immediately effective, and we too want to engage in bold action that will have far - reaching effects on the future. I'm telling you, if we take it seriously to be here in innovation and research, the Icelandic community will be able to look quite different in a few years, decades, decades. It will be more fruitful and more stable, and it will be much better spent and prepared to cope with all types of trauma.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u14	Mr. President. I thank you for the review of the Chairman of the Committee and the talks given here. I hear that the work of the Committee was good and that the bill was good, because the United States supports it and all good works, even though we may suggest other things. I agree with what. paritaprevir Steindór Valdímdar's Valdimarsson, who discussed the importance of making bold and courageous decisions. We are dealing with two very different factors and challenges at the same time. First, reacting to this epidemic and its consequences to the nation's economy today, but we are also at a cross line about the future and would have been that whether this virus had failed or not. We are sailing into a period of time in which action against climate change is needed and with profound technological changes. Indeed, one of the lessons in recent weeks is too few in Icelandic employment. Travel services have been extremely important to us, and hopefully they will continue but still remain an amazing part of our national production. The question is, Should we not keep our main needs in the seaways, agriculture, industrial production, and tourism strong but increase the number of themes? I think it'll always be good luck for us. V.E.G. Bjarni Benediktsson's minister, two or three years ago, spoke of stability and stability as key political factors. It may be said, though I am not sure that I really understand it as he does. Of course, we can hardly talk about stability now. We're in this mess together, and we have to deal with it. However, we can talk about balance now because one of the worst things that could happen to us, when we finally travel out of this, is that there has been an increase in the inequities following the crisis, as often happens, that our basic resources have become too weak, even if we can keep seawater and get a good job job. That's why I'm going to talk about it. I'm not going to do exactly what changes are made by the United States senator, Oddný Harðardóttir, suggest and deal with unemployment benefits, she's already done that. As I said before, many good things have been done. It's certainly, so you admit, it's incredibly complicated for the government to face this project because we're in fog and we don't fully see out of it, and the future is uncertain. Of course, it would be wise to make bold decisions for our day but also courageous, forward - sighted decisions for the farther away time. Therefore, we have supported the denounced and unprecedented actions that will likely be involved in support of a business in the country. In some cases, it has been necessary to protect largely from loss of income. But the public and home also suffer a loss of income. It is true, when people have been working against companies, that both are absolutely necessary and, of course, are not able to do without the other being, although, of course, the companies are the people and not the people for the companies. Of course, corporate support helps keep people working on valuables that provide the basis for maintaining a good welfare system. However, the need for much greater and more specific measures to be taken to the people and homes of the country cannot be excluded. The people who are now on the part-way recovery process, which is on notice time, and that falls on naked unemployment if nothing changes after a few months, are experiencing a very significant loss of income at the same time as domestic expenses are fixed and may even increase if prices fall out of hand. That's why, in this situation, unemployment improvements are too low. The tens of thousands who have lost their jobs are not supported enough. In itself, it is not necessarily normal in the usual condition that unemployment rates are higher than the elderly and the desperate or close to the minimum because they are temporary, and people are supposed to be on them to survive and then go back to their jobs. But we are not dealing with any ordinary situation right now. Everyone must understand that. Many people are experiencing very difficult times. And because there's now one snooze. A member of the hall, I think he is very aware, too, that the shock facing many homes, parents who are losing jobs, children who are experiencing income contracting in one way or another, will affect people's spiritual well - being. We have to understand that, I think. These are often the people who have not necessarily enjoyed the kindness of the past few years, but they have made commitments according to normal wages. People who have had a modest salary, pilots, and others, are also experiencing a major loss of income but have fixed expenses. These people need to be protected. People who are now getting this hit could get most of the money-related improvements at 456,000 bucks. Let us assume that a large number there are losing a considerable amount of household massage. Of course, there are too many evidences that there will be a permanent lack of long - term work to some extent, although we should surely plan together that it will be remembered. We may come to that later. Those who are unemployed for more than three months fall to 290,000 dollars. and, of course, each intelligent person sees that it is difficult to survive. Of course, it sucks that the elderly and the desperate need to live on even smaller amounts, but that group may at present not be experiencing a loss of income and that does not have commitments that would result in a higher salary. It's a problem that's not trivial. Therefore, we are talking about an immediate increase in basic non-employment benefits, temporary decommission and a rise in peak income-related unemployment improvements. So at last, students can get temporary unemployment benefits, if they were studying during spring years, because these 3,000 jobs, which are certainly an important step and an important proposal to be offered in connection with the rural communities, will not suffice with the number of students that are now closing the door, as we have all heard about. At the same time as the entire economy and the economy have drawn together, fewer people will be hired to hotels and restaurants, etc., it's natural to get a lot of people from the job market, they also need jobs and they're competitive, and they may have more experience and other things, so it's gonna be very difficult. For those who mention raising unemployment to 330,000 dollars is strange. Now to cope with this situation, and to point out that we are going high above the elderly and desperate, I can comfort them because they can agree to the Community's bill on increase in social security to these biographies. It was planned in the fall or in the winter, and it hasn't been paid up. Today's work is indeed difficult, and no one is envious of it. I know, of course, that the government is fully working. However, in view of the fact that eyes are more readily visible than an eye, it is good for us to help only if we apply the yoke and process it. This has been done to some extent in the committees. I believe it would have been much better if it had happened earlier in the process so that the anti-continent groups had arrived at the table right away. To repeat it too often may act like a fixed massage so that we should just let it go, but it is a princely debate because we cannot keep our place in the shelter that we have good government and that these are well - versed ministers, of which we are better off, and of good people. That won't always be the case in Iceland, so we're setting an example. If we are in a position that we cannot trust our stewards, what will we do? Granted, we disagree, but we know that these people are not bad people, but they just look around us in the world, and they may not always be like that. Today, we need to focus on defending our companies and making them ready to turn back on the job when things get going. In that light, I am quite ready to look at the actions that have been performed. The part-change process was good, and I think it might have been good in many ways to give companies the strength required to give up the people so that they don't go back on notice and their companies can adapt to situations, less tourists, and be of the right size when they start the interview. Similarly, the government needs to give credible solutions as to how it will create work for the people it is paying to be laid off. It may involve the problem. In other words, what is happening is that the bill may not necessarily be what it says, that is much more than what is not in it, what is missing in it. Second, we need to protect people who have fixed costs of electricity, heat, real estate, mortgages, car, and gods from what they face. That's what I mentioned earlier. Third, we could use the opportunity now to strengthen our basic needs and hire people into subsidiary institutions, to deal with problems that already exist, including those that may be difficult to deal with. Lack of medical staff and nurses around the world, so I don't talk about the problems that arise when the nation's date has changed in other ways. We could start there. It is a small, misleading debate that has occurred when we have been discussing public jobs and jobs in the private markets when even here the national secretary of finance has said that professional value and valuables are strictly exclusive. That's just not the way it is. If we look at the seabed, I'm not going to belittle the hardy, forward - looking, or redesigned, or seamen who have contributed to the greater value of the nation, but that is not so when you throw out the troll and finish when you pull it in and sell it to the fish. If we didn't have a school to create knowledge, to promote intelligence, health institutions, ocean research, innovation fund, surveillance, land eviction struggle, not to mention international agreements to sell the fish, I expect the fish to be rather valuable. Therefore, I think that all of us should try to approach this discussion in just a more basic way. I'm not saying that I sometimes can't put things in exaggerated context, but I think we must now, because we have to work together in the years, to realize that the very complex interaction of the public and the private enterprise, where we all come in one way or another in making the valuables of the country. So now it is very important that we achieve a fair exchange of money and riches. And most important, when we are going through these problems, that here we are not disturbed by the cover of the crisis, not because we really want to or would, but because we may not be thinking about it altogether. Fourth, in the spirit of it. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson said, we must dare look ahead to our toes and even to the long future because we are facing an enormously complex task. I have mentioned the changes in climate, the changes in technology that are basically going to change all of our daily lives, but they can become the key to a great rise in Iceland. What has been difficult for the Icelanders, who have only a few basic jobs, is that we are far from markets, because we are a long island in the ocean, and we have few hands compared to many other countries, even though they are large in some members of the council. That is why innovation companies, tech companies, especially those working with digital solutions, can be the key to increasing here the variety and creating products that are not limited by the number of hands, are not limited by distances, nor are there burdensome requirements for the future because of carbon footprints. But this is not happening tomorrow, and of course I know we're in a Covid emergency reaction. But I don't think we can let it go without discussing how we want the world and Iceland to be inside the long future. Also, we can increase value by saving imports and promoting food production and innovations. We have seen the value of the fishing route, not only of which but of secondary employment in innovation and technology. That's what I think we're supposed to be able to do for the agriculture. I think maybe the agriculture will be one of our major sectors with one of the biggest parishes of the next few years and decades. It applies to the traditional agriculture we have practiced and is not only a question of employment but also about our identity and cultural value, as well as to the eco-efficiency, green and sustainable production of vegetable and fruit culture. We're standing here, and we can only board sleeves and make bold decisions that will affect our lives in the next few weeks. We should think primarily of the people who are working hard, the people at the lowest of the wage, the people who are losing their jobs, the people who are looking forward to losing their jobs. At the same time, however, we owe our children, grandchildren, and their children the courage to make bold decisions, issues of innovation, research, education, and at least lived as well as we were given.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u15	A respectable president. I hope the President doesn't take it badly if I start with that, day too late, wishing the last speaker, why. paritaprevir "Logi Einarsson, congratulations on his 20th birthday party, since I did not get it out of the chair yesterday. " I can agree with a respectable president that it was fun to see what happened. A senator wearing a tie yesterday, giving the day more sacred than any other. Right away. A senator is about to quote Lúther here in a talk - if he was wearing a tie as well - is beginning to be reduced to a civil party more than the Independence Party. But I had made a promise to try to cover all the issues involved in dealing with this Covid struggle, and although the government's old bullshit case has begun to hang up one of the other day from now on, I'm going to try to keep that promise on the Covid business and minimise the amount of time that goes into this speech and base it primarily on my comment, a warning to the bill that all committees have at that point. The Economic and Business Committee signed. But the example of a judge is quite conclusive, as it was, in my opinion. Despite good work on the committee, as before, there was one and another that could have been done and a few things that would have been a very special reason to make a comment. But if I, by Mr. President's permission, live on this notice and briefly overtake him, he begins with a few general words: ▪ The actions recommended in the bill are most of the good and are designed to ease the management of enterprises and to promote future employment. Then most of the Commission's proposals are for improvement. Still, there is reason to make comments on certain matters. Here are some of these without a complete list. And I start with the continuation of an taxpayer who was one of the things mentioned by several members of the Committee: ▪ The recommended action for a- team 1.g. The bill allowing companies to postpone tax pay for last year's income and to balance the projected loss of the year when it becomes real is important and important for many companies. However, the law contains 20 million. K. The tax pay that is permitted to be postponed is covered. Clearly, even an ultimatum could mean much to many viable companies that the roof would be raised or removed. Similarly, it is clear that the abduction of the roof would not make a crucial difference for the state's funds. Therefore, it is difficult to understand why the procedure is decided to be removed so narrowly and thereby reduced, seemingly unnecessary, from its positive effect. This was about postponing taxpayers, yet another example of taking more note of the implications of the panels, such as in a discussion about a pack of measures alone without the cost of the State, which seems to be far spent by someone in politics. Next time, I'm going to break up in the advance, by permission of the President. A company, especially a travel agency, has a temporary miscalculation due to an unusually fluctuating work environment. At the beginning of the year, many tourism companies break down and then recover as the year passes, continuing to provide employment and to produce valuables. As signed, it violates the objective of the bill to punish such companies in particular and prevent them from getting the opportunity to get through the unusual conditions in the present state, a condition that began at an especially unfortunate time for a travel service company. Next, the aims for the growth of innovations, which in various ways are positive and that improved the work of the Committee under the leadership. Her chairman, yet in advance says on this matter, on permission of the president: A mature step is taken by adding taxes according to the law on supporting innovation companies. It is important to increase both tax deduction rates from investments in research and development as well as to increase tax cutoffs. The Commission's proposal for this has been changed. However, it is shortsighted to note that the length of the rules is only two years and does not cover extra income tax deductions for a year due to investments in the past year. It would have been right to extend the duration of the rules to both ends, especially at the latter end or to make the rules untimely. Clearly, this would have allowed the country to produce future projects for those who saw their benefit in relying on the maintenance of the tax system over the course of two years. The answer that there is likely to be an extended time when the dose is complete will result in the realization that being aware is all that matters when a task is chosen based on a local rule. And now, Mr. President, I realize that this is a matter of action to deal with the situation as it is now. However, it was introduced by the government as a future arrangement at the same time. All can be sure that when an emergency arises, the first priority is to respond to it and to try to minimize further damage. But if, as reasonable, humans want to do things at the same time that are going to contribute for a longer period of development, they need actions to reflect their plans. And in terms of support for innovation, it takes just more long-term vision than is shown in the government's proposals and subsidies, although I insist that changes in committee work have been made. Next shortly on reimbursement of cost taxes, etc. This has been discussed considerably, both in connection with the first action of the government, and then this second package, and all the work being done in over a decade ago on the reimbursement of the cost tax, stated in advance: If the government were to reimburse the cost of a tax as much as it is proposed, it would have been desirable to expand these measures as well as to attack other economicly stimulating tax changes. Then perhaps it's one of the greatest concerns I have in this matter, Mr. President, to strengthen the media. Keep reading, with president's permission: ▪ In a signed opinion, the end of the issue is the result of a media dismissal and substantial doubt that it can be considered to be a natural government. It is important to give personal aid to the media and balance their status with the governor. Happily, more solid solidarity is being reached, so the question is, How is this achieved? Then I'll keep reading: ▪ That the minister of the media is authorized to issue funding to the media almost indiscriminately violate basic rules of government interest and legal rights. The payments are so critical that they can be questioned as to whether it is possible to sign a letter that is recognized. Addables presented in this opinion are much less likely to improve the situation. In terms of misdeeds about the media, what was discussed above was - and I traced it here. --Kennings for maximum support violates the aim of protecting jobs and careful production in the media. A minister's permission to look at media diversity is completely unexplained, and it may cause a minister to feel that he is allowed to award the media that may be a minister in excess of others with a hint of diversity. However, in view of the fact that the Central Party has pledged to contribute to any situation that may be involved in dealing with the economic effects of the pandemic, I sign along with the above - mentioned warnings and overt opposition to the misuse of power, which involves hiding ministers of mental power in decisions to support the media. And then to the conclusion, Mr. President: ▪ Although much had been better handled by the government's proposals, the Commission has generally been improving. The Party of the Central Party would have wanted to take other routes, as presented. They and others will appear in other councils, and it is important not to delay the progress of events that may be overcome by the economic effects of the pandemic. According to it, the signed bill supports but openly. And then, Mr. President, I'd like to support the progress of the case at the council with the aforementioned notices.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For his talk and especially for good cooperation, Davíð Gunnlaugsson sailed for his talk. The Economic and Business Committee. I did not answer any others who have recommended their talks, so I would like to use this opportunity and thank all the others. For members of the Parliament, it is a very good cooperation, objective and good discussion. Economic and business committees, especially why. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, who led the committee. I have found myself to be a subject and a good discussion of the committee. Like what? There are significant changes that were made in the committee, and most of us agree. Hv. However, a senator is warning, which I have full respect for, and gives specific support to special media. In a way, it's a bit of a problem. I think most people can agree on that. Hv. In his speech, a senator stated that most people agree on the importance of supporting the private media, but somehow we do not seem to have agreed on a good way to do so. I'd like to hear from what happened. A senator of what he would have suggested that he here strongly comment on the efforts we were making on a financial and business committee to find ways to share these funds under such circumstances. I don't recall ever hearing from what happened. A senator whose suggestions were for sharing that money.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u17	A respectable president. Thank you for your excellent question and giving me the opportunity to discuss my concerns a little bit further. But first, I want to say the word with a what. A senator, like us today in discussions about these matters, was in many ways very good for the cooperation of the committee. Regarding the media, I would have felt that it was far preferable for the council to lay the lines on how this funding would be given. It could have been discussed here at the Assembly Hall, and it would have been shown in the bill, if only we had hidden it from the highest level. Ministers to provide such a bill, such an implementation, at the council, and then an opportunity would be given for members of the council to discuss it. In this way we are fulfilling the Council's obligation to keep track of the State's financial resources. In the long run regarding this goal, which I completely agree with. A senator, like me in my speech, about the importance of supporting the private media, I think maybe we should look more at the tax system and, at the same time, to the overwhelming position of the Kingdom publisher on the market. But in general, if we had taken the matter up for discussion at the council, so I would turn my back on what is not happening, I would have considered it desirable for the Congress to consider meeting the media like other companies in terms of the damage they have suffered because of the situation. This is presented as a response, and as a result, it would be natural to meet the position of the media, which is highly tolerant, many at work, and therefore have been seriously damaged by e.g. the number of ads to be sold.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. We're gonna go for a second. Of course, members of Parliament agree that in the long run, it is important to respond to the position of the state medium in a commercial market. But I still feel that it is important that it is clear that here we were making a suggestion to make a move on how we were going to pay this money and really change from what was proposed in the bill itself, where a minister was assigned to come by the Regulation, so those factors are being reviewed. This sums up how complicated it is to support the free media, even though all of us can agree on their importance. Hv. A senator pointed out that this was not a discussion at the Assembly Hall, but it certainly took place on the committee. I missed the fact that there had been more suggestions in the Committee on what was the best way of paying out the funds involved at this point under the hat of the Covid operation. Then I think we'll have plenty of time to continue talking about its future arrangements. But I couldn't, a respectable president, report why. A senator would have preferred to support himself in a different way when it comes to sharing the funds. Hv. A senator is certainly referring to the diversity of the media, and I find that people have been calling to form local newscasts, that it is important to look at media published in certain areas. I give what. A senator's opportunity to present even a better idea as to how this should have been said in here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u19	Mr. President. I thought I had made this a relatively clear answer. I don't know why. A senator's been able to keep track of it, but I'll just go over it again. First, of course, it is true. One senator says that it is always a problem when the government starts to provide support to an enterprise, but just then the rules need to be clear and general. I think we've endeavored to take that approach to almost every company other than the media, where we have this strange idea of a special regulations authority so that the Minister could issue the budget almost at will. As if I traced earlier in answer to a question why. The senator about how I'd wanted to do this would have, first of all, if I wanted the council to set such rules, be taken into account in general guidelines and because it's a Covid operation, taking into account the damage to the media because of this situation. If it hadn't worked out, I would have at least A minister would like to be committed to this matter at the council so that the council could discuss it. I would have discussed it on the same basis, that measures to the media need as much as other companies in this situation, if the measures are marked by the Covid actions, should be general. When it comes to meeting the media later, I feel that, as I explained earlier, the position of the overwhelming giant needs to be viewed in the market and that it is also to be relieved by the media environment with positive motivations, especially taxable to make life easier for national media users. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u20	A respectable president. It would be tempting to come here and talk about the media and the need to support the private media in Iceland, the free media, but I'm thinking of letting it go now. I think we have plenty of time for that in other times. But I'd like to start my speech, please join the United States Council chairman. Oddný A new Harðardóttir, that there was too much perspective on the actions we are here on. It certainly caught my attention when they were sick. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir and what. paritaprevir and chairman of the budget board, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, discussed earlier today how important it was to get financial advice to discuss with members of the committee at the head. The budget and the what. The Economic and Business Committee on what was really going to happen and what financial councils predict could happen in the near future and the future, and in the weeks, months and years. Let us consider some of the steps that must be taken in financial matters. It is therefore aimed to ensure that objective evaluation of public financial policies. The Council is independent of its jobs and is therefore aimed at evaluating whether financial and financial policies will meet the baseline values that the public financial legislation allows for public financial policies to be based on sustainability, caution, stability, stability, stability and transparency. The Council shall be legally established, assessing whether these two layeres, financial policies and financial agendas for the public will be in accordance with certain extreme conditions of public finances, so-called financial regulations, over balance and total debt. The financial advice is well ordered by professionals, experts, and although some have a lot of caution when talking about experts, I think that in such conditions as we are in today, we really need all our best and best specialists, not just in epidemiology and infectious diseases, but in public financial and financial matters and how best to behave. Today it has been observed that the plan is finally to bring financial advice, and that's why I celebrate. I'm glad that now, when it comes to mid - May, and we've fallen into the kiss of tens and hundreds of billions of public funds, we're just going to stop and get financial advice, like one meeting. The changes we are considering and in many other places, both the ones we have agreed on and what we are considering, will have a negative impact on the survival of a government fund to a shorter time. According to a bill report, the proposal for the bill is a gross estimate that it can reduce the pay of the state to up to 13 billion. Is it just a little smell, since there were adjustments in the motions? Then there's a budget to do something else. Then we're getting a third package, and I don't know any better than the Council is about to get at least one. A third and a fourth pack that will touch many. It's just one little smell of the action we're discussing today. The Senate and its members, who are near exhaustion after a night meeting and a day meeting, are responsible, and when you think about the darkness in which senators are in terms of the scope of this project, not the future, but the scope of the task we are in and the scope of action, you are concerned, so I'm just speaking honestly. We are talking about the situation involving tens of thousands of individuals today. We are also talking about matters that concern the future of all of us and the darkness we are in. Now we're not all sitting on a budget or a Economic and Business Committee but you hear it in the matter of those who come here that it doesn't seem to matter whether a senator is in a government or a government position. It seems that the perspective, the scene, the analysis of the need, the status, the implementation and the measures we are in are all very uncertain. Because I've been obsessed since I started my job here recently, trying to arrange it so that we did a good law, I don't think it's quite acceptable. I feel very deep with special members of the board who are somehow supposed to drive all of this stuff, knowing little or nothing about what this is doing and what the scene is and what the analysis is like, because the perspective now is necessary to decide to divide hundreds of billions or not to make money of tens of billions. But that's enough. I'd also like to discuss some measures where it is recommended to meet tens of thousands of working people who are now on a partial or complete unemployment list. The situation is not grey, it is black when over six hundred thousand workers are registered to unemployment, and there are, of course, 17,000 students in these days who are completing their spring routine; 17,000 students who are never included. Because if people don't get into unemployment records, they don't get into unemployment records, and that doesn't include them. There are 17,000 students, some live at home, and they can eat at their parents'home, while others have families to care for, who do not know how to support themselves and their families in the weeks and months. I'm sorry that more part of the Economic and Business Committee has not been prepared to make any suggestions. paritaprevir The new Harðardóttir Daughter of his vote and let them follow along, which includes to discuss changes in the unemployment insurance law that students may be able to seek some help into this fund. Let us not forget that the overall progress of our student loan system has fallen in recent years from 16,8 billion in 2013 to 7.5 in 2018. The number of applications has decreased by half in ten years. In 2009, there were 14,000 students in Iceland who applied for a student loan, and in 2019 they were 7,000. The number of student loans has decreased greatly. These students prefer to try to support themselves with some type of work. We also need to back them up. In these suggestions from what? paritaprevir Adolescent Oddný A G. Harðardóttir also had ideas to raise her basic employment benefits, since they are too low. We have a pact proposal for that. The welfare committee, which is similar to the suggestions given by Oddný G. Harðardóttir, which have been discussed on the committee during the past few days, ends with the Covid case, and as a result it compromises a particular priority on the Committee. We've received reviews from the University of Bifröst, from the University of Iceland, from the National Association of Iceland, from the National Students of England, and there are all who support the proposals for an increase in basic non-employment, temporarily increasing income-related unemployment and temporarily leaving students, I say temporarily, temporarily, on unemployment. Why temporarily? Yes, because we have had some sort of agreement that when people are studying, they cannot also obtain unemployment. But we have to ensure the advancement of these people. We can't leave it. We cannot, at the same time as we're throwing tens of millions of dollars out of our common funds, saying to students: You can just have your own, you just have to figure out how to support your children in the summer. We can't act like this. It's not that complicated. These are 17,000 people, a part of whom does not need help, but some of them will also need our help. That's what we're suggesting here, for students to get between June 1, 2020, and August 31, 2020, as well as others. We'll see exactly what it looks like. Those students who have money from their parents and family's teeth will be able to continue their studies. Are we just going to make sure that the more wealthy students are safe for the summer, and their children? Is that how the government of Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, Jacob's, will arrange matters in his response to this Covid situation? Is it really so that we will leave this group behind? No, Mr. President, that's not an option. We cannot decide to set it that way. It's just not available. We can do better than that. All I ask is for it. Councilmen wear eyeglasses in this action and ensure that no group will be left behind. The view is necessary, it is not there, but when we are confronted with the problem, we must respond.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u21	President. I'm going to read a few short notices. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr, mentioned in a committee study of the bill we are considering, says: While I'm enjoying the progress that has been achieved in the processing of the committee and I can support the actions presented in the bill, it would have been positive to go further in some areas. In particular, there would have been improvements in a new authority to provide a 45% reimbursement rate due to research and development in the case of small companies. Of course, the cost of small companies in retrieving government funds is higher as a share of total wealth than in larger companies, so it would have been good to meet them there. The same could be said of support for personal media, artists'prizes, and other things. When economic tragedy strikes, it is always the tiniest and the worst, and it is the ones that also benefit from a normal year's visit. So it would be a good turn if the government's actions reflected concern over their survival, rather than always focusing on bigger or more money - stronger people, who have the nature of the situation according to better resources. In view of this, I also want to talk only about the very bad kind of person. This applies not only to companies but also to members of the community. I read an interesting article the other day after the writer Halldór Armandur Ásgeirsson as he points out that while the public always has to save, lay down to face unexpected events, other rules seem to be valid for companies. At that time, the state is running a baloney with companies that have even paid millions of dollars over the years. The reasons for this, Mr. President, are usually that companies are socially important, which are understandable, and that is correct, in many cases, these are socially important companies. But then I wondered: Is not the people of the country also socially important? Is it not true that the public is the foundation for an enterprise to be over its head? Aren't we looking at this the other way around? The Covid-19 pandemic, in combination with the technological change and the fourth industrial revolution - it is just as likely that Covid-19 will function as some kind of technical advance of technology, i.e. In fact, to speed up the already occurring trend - to bring about fundamental changes in society, putting so much money only into everything that created income before. The economy we have lived in is also the cause of climate change, the high stress in people's lives, the indiscretions and poverty, so we have every reason to try to build up a new, sustainable, green economy and rebuild the workforce according to the needs of the people. And I'm not saying we have to do it, that's perfectly clear that we could try to restore just what was. But isn't it just now, if it's our will to look forward to a changed time, to take those actions now with these emphasis? That would be, for example. can be done with much more than one condition when it comes to which company the state's funds will support and what conditions should take place, e.g. In terms of environmental policies or other, how democratic the company is to its employees. You could look at it from different angles, but as the situation is now, we lack the ability to go outside and look at it with more vision. The government's resources are designed to restore the economy as it was. That economy was entirely on the basis of capital owners, where society was actually designed according to the needs of the labour market in an economy that is dependent on endless growth. President. What I want to talk about here is the importance of our investing in people as well. I understand the need to support and strengthen a business, but for some reason, we've watched it so that by supporting our companies, we're somehow also strengthening the people. This is the kind of bread crumbs theory taken over a new system, which will be returned to the public in the country. But why not back up, strengthen, and invest in the people of the country at the same time? When it comes to ensuring that companies stay in business, important companies, we also need to make sure that the public has the ability to maintain these enterprises. The demand for goods and services is there in the public, and if we don't secure the basics of the people, if we don't make sure that people don't have money between their hands to spend, the demand is down. Then all of this falls apart, except for the financial costs that result from maintaining and increasing poverty in the country. Poverty was indeed there, and there is, and we all saw it here just before the Covid epidemic struck, when the trigger played a special role in poverty in Iceland. There is no response to the need for these groups. We're not talking about raising disability pensions, we're not talking about raising unemployment benefits even though tens of thousands are now on unemployment, and we're seeing it as quite a fact that striped unemployment rates are not basic, they don't reach even the minimums, and the income connection is quite low, so people with an average pay fall into pay. How will we make sure that people are able to pay their bills, that people will not lose their homes, much less rent people? How will we protect our homes and prevent people from paying their bills? I feel that there is a lack in the discussion now and that there is a lack of action in the way we put our arms around the country during these difficult times. It may well be that these actions will come, and I really hope, President, that they will come, they will be spoken of as raising unemployment rates and securing basic progress in the country. But every day that we do not do so, we add to the stress and insecurity of the people in the community about their survival, and we know exactly what the consequences will be. We know just how much an increase in coldness there was after a collapse when people were really worried about their survival. I suggest after this package, and I hope we are going to talk about how we can invest in the people of the country and how we can expand money for innovation, research and development because it has to be done, we have to look to the future. Putting more money in innovation, research and development is future savings, we're building for the future. We also need to enhance the performance of the health system. We need to make sure that the health system is well prepared if someone else is affected by such an epidemic. We see that we need to ensure the pay of nurses. We need to secure these basics, which means we need to make sure that the people who work there and keep these institutions going get a decent salary. We also need to look for a green communion covenant. We need to have that conversation with the nation, and I miss not seeing any more funding in green solutions. We need to examine society through equality and sustainable development to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u22	Mr. President. In my speech, I will try to stick to the matter of Congress, i.e. Persuasion, as you wish. I decided to say something for a few reasons, including to review how I have felt the job on the committee. I think that work has been exemplary and is a reason to thank the entire committee and any members involved, whether they come from a government or a government position. The work has been directed under the strong leadership of the Chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Kárason Björn's son. The director reviewed some of the changes, and all I'm going to say about them is, of course, I support them. It is important, however, to point out, especially in the light of words that have failed earlier today as to the way these measures will take place in the future, that this is done by a special support for innovation, as indicated by the laws. With increased support for the changes made by the Committee, it is being promoted, as it were. paritaprevir The previous issue of Oddný G. Harðardóttir encouraged further support by supporting innovation, especially research and development in that area. This is of utmost importance. It has also been discussed here on the context between home and business support and how it affects the work offered in the community. Of course it all hangs a little bit together, and indeed very much. I say for my part that protecting jobs, securing jobs that you can avoid losing, at least indirectly, if not directly supported by the homes in the country. That guarantees them at least the implementation of the households underneath. Hv. Senators are aware that we are not talking for the first time about operations or a pack of actions, and if corpses do not allow them to end any action that we will need to take at some point because of the Covid-19 pandemic. In fact, many members of Parliament and many of the highest. Ministers repeatedly admit that the situation is so quick, motion, and uncertainty that it is not unusual that other measures need to be taken. Like what? Councilmen, some of them, have mentioned today we have the opportunity to make immediately on Monday to expect a new bill, including due to the partial improvement process. It is, as far as I know, being extended that way, but when the epidemic was about to start, we couldn't quite know if it would last three months, six months, nine months, or something. Now we're pushing that date back to the year because we think it's absolutely clear that it will have to. Surely, then, we need to do this to a greater degree and with more options than just this. Some have been discussed here today, as well as in the community, about the factors involved in low taxes and taxes. I realize that in Icelandic law, you can take money out of the country. You can do your job abroad, and you can have partners abroad. Icelandic law is not forbidden, and it is even permitted to move capitals out of the country, and in recent times we have not actually been in a condition where it was banned except in the collapse. However, it hangs out that those who do this have to go to Icelandic law and have to pay their taxes on the money they're moving out of the country. They have to pay their taxes on income they earn in other countries here in Iceland, etc. Thus, tax laws are made relatively clear. Of course, there may be disagreements as to whether they are clear enough but at least It's pretty important to keep this in mind. That's why I trust what the experts have said when they find it. Some sources say that there may be a theoretical possibility that some persons can disregard the rules, but I think that they are expected to compromise laws, and thereby other laws of the law and of these rules we are to agree with. In the conclusion of the paragraph on the continuation of taxpayers, it is as follows: Therefore, the regulations are intended to include taxpayers, not taxpayers, but taxpayers. This may be of little value, but this is exactly what the intentional terms we are accepting, with the changes in the laws presented in these alliances, we are separating the people in the tax industry. I think it's very important that we do. Again, Mr President, I repeat that further action is at least The person standing here is willing to participate in that work. I suppose that's what. The Economic and Business Committee is ready for this, and there has been no lack of good cooperation and cooperation with the Committee to Which you can see. So now we're serving another large piece of action from the Committee with one committee, but the nature of the matter, according to the different viewpoints on which side of the administrative body is on, and also the nature of the case according to the politics they represent at any given time, which is perfectly normal. To the members of the committee, it is commendable how much they have worked hard to get common results and put together to achieve changes in the best way possible. It has been done, and it must be welcomed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u23	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I agree with that, because we in the United States have shown that we have supported the bills and the actions here have taken over the council to support the companies and to help fight unemployment. Of course, we need to do so. But we cannot leave our homes behind. Although there is a compromise, we need to be realistic, and not all companies will get up when the epidemic is over and recruits people. Sadly, we will struggle with unemployment for longer than we want to see and more unemployment. I don't have much work to do. Basic non-employment is just over 289,000 dollars. Remuneration for each child is over 11,000K. The level-related peak is 456,000 k. It's all very low amounts. I know the board of directors, huh? Councilmen have said: "No, we don't need to raise unemployment because we raised it last year. That's right, because, as a result, there had been a tremendous disintegration, and the difference between the minimum wage and basic uncooperative reforms had come up to over 70,000 bucks. Last year the change went down to 37,000, but now the difference is over 45,000. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he agrees with me and with us in the United States that there is an immediate need to raise the unemployment rates and face people with problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u24	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for the counter. The senator mentioned that she believed that some of the homes had been left behind. I just don't agree with the senator in it. That's at least not my opinion of that position. But she especially discussed the unemployment benefits, and the senator's efforts were raised last year, making them closer to the minimum. Since then, the minimum pay has increased in labour market contracts. I believe it is important that, as part of the ongoing study of the situation, make a special assessment of the need to make changes in unemployment. I'm not sure it's time right now. I know what it is. In his talk earlier, a senator introduced to certain areas of the country, especially in a prime case. Senator, unemployment has been very high. It is true that there may be many, or at least others, in the area of the council, gradually moving on to overhauled unemployment. This is not a good situation, and the senator does not have to think that it is an acceptable place to go. I think we should look at it over the next few weeks and months whether and then how we'll react to that problem in particular, but I don't see it as part of this pack of measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u25	Mr. President. Those answers are why. I'm sure I'm disappointed in a senator. I want to know if he can't think now or at least. over the next few weeks, the percentage that gives each child an extension should be increased. Can't you accept that suggestion? It will give just over 5,000 bucks. Extra with each child, leaving over 11,000 bucks. Up to 17,000 or so. Is not at least can you look at the children of those who have lost their job and who are already on the edge of some form of unemployment? Why is this not to be done immediately? Do we have to let the people who first fall onto basic employment benefits starve? Wants to play. A senator gathers into the sear and doesn't bring help until then and so many live under the poverty line? Another factor could be to change the criteria for child reform, allowing the pediatric compensations paid on June 1 based on income of April 1, but not the average income for 2019 that does not give a picture of the situation in the family of children in the country. Well, maybe. The senator did not agree that at least Can donations be increased by those who have lost their jobs or by those who have lost a lot of money because of the situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u26	Mr. President. Now I have to admit that suggestions are what they are. I was seeing for the first time today. I can totally agree with the senator. I think they're interesting. I think this is an interesting approach to the social problems caused by unemployment, and I agree with the senator that perhaps we should do more by considering in particular the effects of unemployment, and particularly unemployment to this extent as we do today, on these groups. But that is exactly what the last pack of measures was made, and I can't remember whether it was in the last or the last one, about raising or making a special contribution to child improvement with each child in the previous year. [[The president calls.]] I can see the problem the senator mentioned in connection with the dates we put in it. [[The president calls.]] But the senator knows as I do that there were technical reasons, can be called, for it was harder to do in the way the senator wants it to. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u27	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator who is only supported by innovation in the bill. Committeemen are very pleased with that, naturally, but what. paritaprevir A Smári amount of Mccarthy suggests that these activities become slightly longer. First, I wanted to ask why. A senator would have reasoned whether some particular argument would have been presented in the Committee's work against raising the pressure further. I'd like to add a little something about innovation, because we now see that tourism will be damaged, perhaps for a while. There are many factors, including that the epidemic can rage again, it can become worse, and it is also not just an internal situation that matters, but an external situation in each country as we know it. The tourists themselves need to be in a position to travel here and back. In view of this, I feel that it is so important that we put much energy into innovation because there are opportunities to create exports that do not depend on the fact that flying is in full force as they were last year, but are the valuables that can be created here and moved across the blessed Internet. That's why I've been a little surprised at what it really is, in general, little emphasis, not just in this case or whatever in the speech of the gill. A senator, that innovation is the key to our long - term success. We really need to compensate for the damage we've lost a whole export branch and no small export branch. I decided that there was only one member of the committee's opinion with this opinion or at least that it was written down. I want to go inside. A member of the council, depending on whether he is familiar with any particular evidence against it or is able to explain his point of view in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson respond. He discussed innovation and support for innovation, and it is true that, as the senator came in, there is considerable improvement compared to the original bill. This is to make up the share of research costs or development from 25% to 35%. There's a considerable difference and it's gonna matter a lot of companies a lot. The Senator asks if they should have gone further, up to 45% like whatnot. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy mentioned in his warning on the committee's opinion. This was discussed on the committee. The landing, however, is this one, as if it were there for a detailed discussion. In effect, we are reaching some kind of middle person. I think it would've been a good idea to be able to do even more. But I still want less trouble. A senator says that we are going to form with the roof from 600 million all the way to 1,100 million at the beginning of the company's support. We actually take away the cross-link in support, and that's how we raise the possible support of one company all the way up there. This is a significant change, and for many companies this will mean that very many jobs will occur, but no less, we will save many jobs from losing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and he accepts it perfectly, there is always some significant difference between members of the body and politicians in general. Good call. A senator about raising the roof. I agree with him that it is possible to make a difference. I have to admit that when I consider these actions and listen to talks here, sometimes I need to be reminded that this is all about creating jobs. I'm interested in creating new industry, new fields that automatically create jobs. I'm from the old school in that I don't really see the whole point of creating jobs unless they make some valuable thing for society. That is why I find the main thing to do is to create an area of value. And in this situation, in particular, I view innovation as the key to it because it really is the only thing that is to be seen when it comes to creating a new pillar for the Icelandic economy, whatever we can provide now. [[The president calls.]] Of course, saying that it is not clear in advance which industry will have the most opportunity in the years to come, especially at this uncertainty level. [[The president calls.]] I apologize, a respectable president, in time, but I have no other question, just wanted to share these views.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u30	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, I agree with the senator that making new support is important. That is why the Commission decided to respond to a calling from an organization that reminds me of the very name of the Organization of Players or Video Players, but they were advised that it would be useful and that they could help little people who are getting their feet in their software production precisely if so - called angelic investors were to get more favors than they have received here because of their investments in that industry. This is very important because I think this can be the seeds that will cause a good - looking tree to grow around the industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u31	A respectable president. Much of the suggestions under consideration in this bill are based on the quality of health that exists in the Icelandic economy. This is the support of people who are able to provide financial resources to invest in investments or innovations or what they are, and then the State comes against and will prefer people who can take the steps to strengthen their companies or build up in their rural society or come and invest in a small sceptical company. It gives you a measure of optimism, showing that despite today's evil year, there are still deep pockets here and where they can finance the resistance. A few weeks ago, the senator mentioned an idea that he has long accompanied on the government's bond version that could be used for building up in the years that could be done to the public, the part of which is available, to support that structure beyond what we do with the usual tax pay. If so, even those bonds could be linked to green building, which is obviously what is needed in the future. I'll mention this because there's only a requirement for the size of the companies but not the level of the work there, whether it was considered to tie it up to green innovations. [[The president calls.]] The Senator may be able to teach me what the amount of money we could be talking about if the pensions with their frayed pockets came into it with full force. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u32	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for his answer, and I'm so glad that the senator watches and write what I say. I've spoken of us trying to write out a bond, and I've actually mentioned it too, as the senator came in, that they could often be green and have green accents. It is not in this package, but it is a requirement that the senator recognize it. The Senator asks if some discussion has been asked on the committee if there should be a special focus on a green investment. I think it's safe to say that there was a discussion with the Committee. Although this was not yet the case, it was discussed only on the committee. Regarding what the senator asked about, how violent the dierent resources could be in this, if we imagined that all the pensions would fully use the authority expressed in the law or in the bill, there could be 50 billion a year. I'm not so optimistic that I think that it will be so that all pensions will make full use of all their sources. But it does tell us, as the senator is, that I think, to point out that in the pension fund, there is an enormous force that at just times can be used to help us deal with our problems and get out of the difficulty.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u33	A respectable president. Perhaps there is no need to worry because there is hardly any innovation in these days that are intelligent without its emphasis on green. But somehow it would have been nice to put it into words because, as the senator says, it is possibly 50 billion a year and the warrant is inserted until 2025, half way into the Paris Convention's commitment period. I'd like to ask the senator about something else that I know we're interested in, and it's the pressure logs and the proposal to respond to the meeting restrictions by allowing the tax to stop producing the pressure logs rather than dusting off our joint proposal to publish them electronically, so people don't have to come to the narrow tax office and sit over printed records, but can just pick them up from the Internet. [[The president calls.]] There is also more to the changes we have made on other laws. [[The president calls.]] We did not cancel the provision of a recommendation list for the president's offer. Instead, we made the opportunity to collect them from the Internet. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u34	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u35	Mr. President. I agree with what. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson said that this was specifically mentioned in the committee with the pension fund as he came in. And then about the stress logs, it's a warrant, at least as far as I understand it. It is not really a obligation to publish stress files. Rather, it is being authorized to do so if the causes of disease require and are not published in a conventional way. But I wish I could. A senator would have pointed this out earlier, for I would have been so happy to put this electronic law into the law, and perhaps the senator will draw it up just now between discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u36	V.E.G. President. We've been discussing a bill for further economic impacts following a pandemic crown virus. I'm not going to go to the exact subject of the bill or the proposed changes. The Economic and Business Committee. That's what the Chairman of the Committee, anyway. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kármson very well in his history. These actions are linked to the earlier administration of the government and are in line with the two other prime radios supporting smaller companies, which discuss loan support and closing power, as well as a fund-fixing bill that we will address at the council tomorrow, to be expected. Here we call tax arrangements on the income side and then the expenses on the budget bill. I spoke only today in opposition to what. A senator, Oddný Harðardóttir, on the importance of maintaining perspective and valuing the impact of taxes and taxes and expenditures to address this situation and assess the impact on economic and financial issues. The first actions were aimed at responding as rapidly as possible to the loss of income that occurred in many companies and households, and are the main measures in a partial improvement. It was important to act quickly. This was followed by various measures, postponement of fees and taxes, as is the case here both in response to this situation now and in the future, because it will be an ongoing task to cope with balance of the pay and the receiving of a government fund as we rapidly begin to reduce unemployment. This bill also contains, and indeed, in the budget bill, major measures to promote innovation, research, and evolution. That's the best we can do, I appreciate, a respectable president, both in response and in response. It will be very expensive for an Icelandic community if we fail to meet the production loss that is drawing up. It's gonna be a lot if we don't pull out of unemployment quickly, and we're stuck with a long-term lack of work. It will be expensive and long lasting. Therefore, I welcome the action here and emphasis on innovation, research and evolution. This is a significant improvement when it comes to promoting this factor. It's now being suggested in the bill to increase the pay ratio of research and development costs from 20 to 25%, and the committee suggests that it will go to 35% that will apply to most companies. A few larger companies may fall into the category in the law but go to 25%. At the same time, the roof is being raised substantially, from 600 million to 1,100. At the same time, it is suggested in the financing bill to promote funds, food funds, rice funds, and the New World Translation Fund for students. This is all so as to be effective and effective in research. This is important when we look at the project ahead, and I mentioned here, working fast on unemployment. If I look at this on the basis of the state's budget, balance of pay, and income, the baseline values that show up in the law on public finances are important in this context, a respectable president, and perhaps the first to mention sustainableity. We must always bear in mind that we are not putting additional burdens on future generations, and we must always have a powerful government fund to meet the tragedy. That's why I mentioned it here and talked to him about it. Harðardóttir The importance of maintaining perspective, and as much as we can assess the impact of these actions, that they yield the desired result, as the scope is considerable in all context. The law on public finance was drawn in the instrument we have, financial advisers, to give us objective evaluation of government policy and financial policies. The government's now under way, and we're really just here in this fight, the whole nation, responding. We receive objective evaluations from financial advisers on policy and plan, and it would be most desirable for us to have such objective evaluations when we are in this position, in this response with such extensive measures, to have objective assessments to help us maintain our perspective. A respectable president. I'd like to say, though, that I'm convinced that the initial reactions were correct, focusing on protecting corporate resources and households. Likewise, when uncertainty substantiates, it is very important to evaluate these measures. What do they mean? What adjustments are needed, and where should we carry them? In a similar way, it is desirable to do this in a practical way, as we have been made aware of what has been called a package of financial contributions and alliances, such as these or tax measures. This will be a key point ahead in this context. I think that in the autumn months when we're paying off our pay on notice and the unemployment problem is a very important time point to evaluate what this is coming down, what the situation is and how we're going to be able to get there fast and create jobs, get people involved. It has to happen fast, respectable President. Therefore, these are not final measures at all, but I am stressing that we still value this level, because the baseline values are still under government law, and we have to respect and follow them. Of course, uncertainty in these situations depends very much on the timing of a new course and a new plan based on those baselines, but it is very important that we do so as soon as possible. I'm not going to keep this speech all the longer, but I appreciate it so that everything we're doing here with these elements in the bill and it's done fine - I specifically presented a part of innovation, research and development - is a good step, as it was at the Committee. I want to finish this talk, a dignified president, by thanking the work as well as the solidarity shown. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u37	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He came into contact with the importance of reducing the level of unemployment, which is at the most historically at present, and here it is to be taken into consideration. In this regard, I'd like to enter a little on the insurance bill. As we know, the fee is calculated as a percentage of the salary paid by the company to its employees. The more costs the company pays, the more money it costs and the higher the more insurance fees the company pays, the more expensive the employee is. The price thus reduces the ability of an enterprise to invest and create jobs. Therefore, private companies' growth potentials are blocked by high insurance costs. We are in the situation where every job and job does not come about by itself, we know it, and the government must do everything in their power to reduce unemployment, as it were. A senator correctly came in. Now, the Central Party suggests making adjustments in the budget of the budget to cancel the insurance bill until the end of the year. We argue that the cost is not as high as many think it is. Is it possible on the part of the senator to temporarily cut or temporarily cancel the insurance fee in an effort to reduce the number of jobs and even increase the number of employees?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u38	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For a good question, Þórarinsson's son. The insurance bill is a special currency based on pay and, therefore, will always weigh it very much when companies weigh and assess peripheral income and if they hire the next employee at work - if I put it as simply as I can. I understand that, and that's why it's always going to work very well. Discussion of the insurance bill has often ended up in the council sales and in the committees we have worked together in, including ... atwhat. It's a legal committee. That is a weak answer, but, of course, everything is possible in this situation. With this price in particular, however, we need to look at things in relation to collective agreements and employment markets. We have a recent example of conflicting about meeting the workforce, but I think that's the way it needs to be done. When I'm talking about reducing unemployment, it's about raising demand. In this closed economy we are working for now, we need to think about how we encourage domestic demand, for it will create jobs. We're just watching the loss of production, and then we don't use the manufacturing factor, we have to watch first and foremost. I know I'm just trying to get past the insurance bill because that's not something that we've been able to get along with. But I think that's why we need to see that in connection with the work market, and that's what we're looking at when we're looking at the big movie, money, money. Of course, measures have been made by the Sensitive Bank on loan institutions in the entire economy. I hope I'm not answering that way. A senator appreciates it so that I am pushing past the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u39	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. No, he wasn't going past what I asked him about. That's what happened. A senator thinks it's normal for him to be examined, and of course I welcome it. This is a very important option and I would like to encourage the government to take a serious look at this. The government has set 30 to 43 billion on a so - called telling route, paying companies to resign employees, that's what it can be said. The government decided to pay companies this three-month notice, pay them to resign their employees. There is no solution to this. It increases the debt of state funds, and then these people go to unemployment since the end of the season. No doubt, some companies find it difficult to pay a notice, but those employees would eventually have hit unemployment sheet anyway. However, our way, this insurance policy, reduces the budget and declines until the end of the year, is very effective in strengthening the company's domains and enabling them to keep their employees and hopefully to add to their employees. [[The president calls.]] The conclusion is, Mr. President, that I strongly encourage the government to consider these measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u40	V.E.G. President. I couldn't tell a question in the second answer from what. paritaprevir But I thank Þórarinsson's son for his question last year's answer to the insurance policy and speculation in a second answer. Yes, it is always desirable to stimulate demand, to stimulate employment, to reduce jobs, to hire people at work, while at the same time we have to consider sustainable and careful. It may be the two basics of the law that are the most important at this time when we're evaluating it. I'm going to answer that again, because the perimeter effect of this currency against recruiting jobs is very high, that each step of decommissioning can do jobs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u41	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson in front of the story. I liked to hear him talk about self-sustaining about government funds and caution. I also liked hearing him mention of financial advice, the importance of being objectively evaluated for the action being made, some sort of counseling from neutral parties. I couldn't quite hear what I was saying. A senator whether he was saying that he had found it better to have been consulted earlier for counseling on the financial expenses now by the government's actions. Does he feel that in the next act package, which is just beyond the corner, next week likely, that I think, to ask for advice from the government? I'm concerned that the three action pack, expected, will be countering the objective of a pack of measures one, i.e. the part-way improvement. Hv. paritaprevir Birgir's Þórarinsson mentioned paying off company notices, but it somehow violates the goal of keeping people working. I wondered, " Is there no need to consult a financial body that is independent of advice? ' I think that's an offer, and it's made to give both the council and the government good advice on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u42	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for a very good question. She'll give me a chance to explain this exactly. Official financial law is a blesser of objective evaluation on the part of a financial body. Budget is a tool drawn in to give us a professional discussion of action, and this is a very powerful tool, especially for the council, to support governments. But I feel like it's missing. It works when things are going well. We'll get our policies and financial plans, see what the budget is, and get objective assessments. The discussion has greatly improved. But when we find ourselves in this crisis and fight these unusual situations, the underlying financial policies actually fall apart and there is no financial agenda, we really have no legal issues that the financial adviser can provide us with. We are, however, undergoing a very extensive operation. It's very unusual to be making donations around here almost every week and taxing measures in the alliance without having any food at all. But I know it's the highest. Of course, the government has experts in the Ministry. They're having a conversation with The Haust on numbers, and the Bath - sheba Bank and a lot of people are drawing up stage movies. The World Bank and the Ministry of Economics draw out their stage illustrations that we have been given to look at at at at at at. It's a legal committee. But it would be very powerful for us to receive counseling from an independent person who has a position in the financial situation that would help us assess the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. A financial body is independent of its jobs, so I believe that the council is well able to ask financial advice to review these packages and to give their opinion on them. Whether or not, it is in itself. They need to be offered to do so. I think it's a little important. I also think it is important for the government to believe that there is an independent and independent assessment of its action. I think it's very important because I'm a little worried and I'm asking for a response from what happened. A senator's concern about whether there is a danger of such a cave of rock when such heavy work takes place in a rather narrow group, apparently, the Ministry, the Minister, and a few experts in the crisis. They may be lacking variety and perspective from other places. Shared. A senator of this concern with me? I refer to the highest. To me, a prime minister told me that there are mostly Ministry and Ministers - not many Ministers - and some government officials. There does not seem to be much extradite advice or assistance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u44	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Senator. I'm going to add: That I don't talk about when things are so fast and the money is just as high and so high. When you do, of course, try to show understanding that this is not the time for everyone to agree on such a wide scale and not be able to give much thought to getting food from all sides. It slows down the process like this. But I can tell you what. A senator says we've got a financial hearing to come to a party. The budget and what. The Economic and Business Committee, because we think it's important to get all this conversation, even though it's quite difficult in the law, is not drawn in there that we should be expected to have something independent, objective, to form on these packages.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u45	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. Listening to what I've been doing has been fine for me. A senator talks about financial and financial matters in a pita. Hv. A senator often highlights larger economic and material aspects every time, of course, it is overwhelming. I wanted to go in a little bit like that. 3.m. South, Þórarinsson, what was involved in insurance, or, rather, taxes in general. Hv. In his talk, a senator mentioned that it would be in time, in summer and perhaps longer, to keep the balance between the income and the financial expenses. I agree with that. A senator, thinking that everyone who doesn't want and even those who don't want to. Is it not, then, that the wisest thing that the State, the state's fund, could do to achieve the goal of maintaining balance at that time is to reduce the tax burden right now? Second, in the context of that as a why. 3.m. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! said about the insurance bill, which is a type of tax returns, there are more types of taxes, then I wondered if it would be a good idea to focus on now reducing taxes to individuals so that they can be more free of it and to encourage them to use their financial influence in the economy, thus encouraging the demand. I mean, there's a breakdown of demand, in effect, that we're up against here. I could extend the question even more than maybe this will do for now, at least in view of the short time we have.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u46	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for very good questions. All of this is exactly right, so now we should lower taxes because the project is activity, activity, activity. New creation is good, and I studied in a talk that we have a plan, we're putting 4.2 billion on a job plan for jobseekers and students, and summer studies for students. It's all very positive, and we're supposed to do it. I think there's a problem with us in this operation. We've taken a lot of action to postpone corporate expenses. It is so enormous that there is no room, there is a need to see beyond the demand. I can imagine the scholars discussing these things: What should we do? How should we react? How are we supposed to help the homes and businesses get through this temporary situation? It needs to be seen out of sight, and in this tremendous drop of income, people are careful before they actually start to reduce their taxes. I think that's what's happening. But when we look at what we're supposed to do when we're going through unemployment, because now we're paying off on notice, and that unemployment is gonna work out, we'll see we have to take these types of action. This will be reversed because at the same time, talking about sustainableity and carefulness, it will take time to restore the balance between pay and income. The budget has become somewhat high and in the health system, and the health - care system is just costing it to increase and affect it in the overall picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u47	A respectable president. It's a sad thing to always be a spokesman to add to people's anxieties, but in harmony with them. A senator was talking about my concern. We are postponing the tax system and postponing various things and things now, and that is why the State, the state's fund, assumes that the income will be paid in due course, even if it is later. In other words, there is optimism. The procedure is, in effect, dependent on the condition to improve and within the predictable time frame, perhaps, a year, or something similar. It is difficult to say how long optimism might last. But I'm worried that if they fail first, the government's going to be in very serious trouble. Therefore, I have concerns that may not concern tax reductions, not too much optimism when taxes are dropped. Although I made a point, they also mean loss of income, and nothing less, they may not create traps for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u48	V.E.G. President. The delay did much more than lower tax stocks, just as the partial reform pathway did much more than for e.g. reduce insurance costs. It had to be a quick response, so that almost an empty company or with a huge loss of income just didn't have to pay for anything. So the response was correct. But we must soon begin to examine all the legislatures, and what the scope is and to look for the demand. It means that we need to see where we can set up such subsidies, lower insurance bills, lower taxes, lower taxes on individuals as soon as we see that it is possible, and that the demand is intense enough to give us a sense of trust in the government's taxes, and that we can balance that way. That's how I look at it, and it's only for the next few months. But this will be a project for the next year. [[The president calls.]] One scene tells us that we will not have the value of each person until 2027. We have to look at the context in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u49	Mr. President. I'd like to say in the beginning that the measures recommended in this bill are most of the good, and come to help the companies and to ease their efforts and hopefully to stimulate their working life in time. But I'd like to come in first for the continuation of taxpayers. I take my mind to see that the roof that we're talking about, and it's permitted to delay, is too low, about 20 million. However, the question is, Will companies be better equipped to pay when they are due? Indeed, there is a danger that even businesses will still have to pay off when it comes to paying. That's when we have a problem with what to do. Are legal provisions to collect the fees or to go other ways of trying to help these companies? I think the government has to bear in mind that there may even be a time for demolition to pay on some level. It could happen. We don't know what the development will be like, whether companies will be in a position to pay when it comes to due wages, and there will be sums of money to be paid. This is something that needs to be kept in mind in this matter. Next time, I'd like to step aside to travel. It has been shown by the Management Board of travel services that mass failures would greatly inhibit the structure of the article again. We must also look to the future, how we will recover when tourists start streaming back here. We have to be prepared for this and have some kind of schedule for this, so all resources must be sought in order to prevent a shortage of expenses for tourism. Well, it's the industry that was the largest virus epidemic in the country and that gave us most of it to the population, e.g. In terms of currency collection. I've mentioned it here in a speech chair that it is necessary to simplify the legal resources we already have to help a company through this. I'd like to mention a special payment stop. We do not need to act in a legal way when, in effect, we have an arrangement that may only have to be drawn around and adjusted to benefit in this situation. That is why it is very important in the situations in which the tourism now struggles to meet the conditions of payoffs. Many commercially healthy tourism companies, so to speak, for the spread of the virus have now suffered a massive drop in income, a total loss of income, and a need for a payment stop in order to be temporarily sheltered. Therefore, it is urgent that the lawgiver without delay alters the law of bankruptcy, enables companies to deal with business problems, and obtain authorization for payment. The difference between keeping companies alive so that they can resist when tourists come back and driving them into bankruptcy is simply a difference of whether or not they will be able to rebuild our economy with the help of tourism as short as possible. It's very important to keep this in mind. The head of the Economic and Business Committee, what? paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kállson, has said that it's a reasonable arrangement in this situation to make it easier for companies to go into financial reorganization in the shelter of payoffs, and I'll take my heart into it, I've spoken for it before. But say it. The Councilman and chairman of the Committee must perform actions. I asked the highest. In particular, Minister of Justice, if it would not be normal to change the conditions for payment, they are relatively narrow, so that there could be use of this resources in the environment of the viral epidemic. V.E.G. A minister answered that the matter would be examined, and I have not heard of it since. It's been a while since I asked the highest. Minister to this in unprepared time of inquiry. For once, Mr. President, many companies cannot wait indefinitely for a minister to look into the matter. They need to act immediately before it is too late. The problem with government procedures is that many of them are not being developed. I mention the bridge loans as an example, and the way the parts of it are not fully improved in the way that was provided. This is very important. It is not enough to agree to any actions if the whole procedure is affected. It's just gonna have to go through with it. In fact, a large number of companies are already obliged to give up their farms for bankruptcy. It's just the kind of law. They realize that they will not be better in the near future. In order to prevent viable enterprises from being taken for bankruptcy and to ensure that they receive adequate shelter from demands, the requirements of payoffs must be simple. This route has already been taken to Norway and has already been recognized as the need for more efficient measures to clear up corporate debt issues. It's just a fact, Mr. President, and I know that Mr. President knows it well, that the conditions of payouts are too heavy and they are not readily available to businesses in poor financial circumstances. The application procedure must be simplified significantly, and the rejection conditions of the courts must be reduced and tightened. For example, companies who apply to save money have to submit a specific business plan, a credible plan for their recovery and solve their problems. It's just not possible in this situation. There's so much uncertainty that it can't be done. There is a condition that prevents an enterprise, in the situation they are now, from getting this option. In addition, it needs to expand the provision of enterprises in the reorganisation process in line with the needs of the enterprises which need to be included. being able to manage business loans and mortgage assets in order to keep their business going. Timelines need to be adjusted in terms of permission to reorganize. According to current law, a judge must accept continued payment every three weeks. The lawyers have recently proposed their articles, those who have spoken of paying the company's streets in terms of this strategy, to change this and to supply the warrant for three months at a time. Furthermore, they feel that it is important that the authority's responsibility be limited in such a way that whoever conducts a viable business will be allowed to apply for reorganization without being evinced as a result of the company's lack of payment. It is evident, however, that in the next months, there will be little to leave of companies in our ideal country. Mr. President. It's my opinion that it's very sensible, and others have talked about, simply, the rules of payment stopped in the present situation. Changes in the conditions of payment stations will certainly help some companies to get to the necessary shelter in order to reorganise their business, and there will be a difference between each company in this situation. They need to be asked to reexamine legal resources for their homes and companies that can possibly use current resources, but we don't have to go into a huge legal structure, as mentioned at the outset. A financial check is very suitable, but the law's terms are so uncertain as to whether companies that have entered the viral epidemic and have no income can benefit from it, and it's very fatal. The situation today is this: A company may not meet the requirements for payoffs based on local legislation, so it is necessary for the government to act immediately. The most important thing is, of course, to prevent mass failure within the tourism service and the government's actions must all take into account. In addition, there is a need to review the rules on divorce, i.e. that the executives of the enterprise do not see the need to be punished will delay paying public fees, etc., which is, unfortunately, the fact that it may simply be broken. Under such circumstances, it is totally unnatural for humans to have to suffer. I just want to come into the banks of this relationship. It has been observed, I think, at KPMG review, that borrowing banks for travel services is about 250 billion bucks. Added to this are indirect loans to real estate partners who are renting back to travel services, and beyond that, the investments of pension funds and others through funds and registered societies. The bank's own budget, based on the end of 2018, was about 630 billion. The news has now been received that during this quarter of the year the banks have reported loss, both Iceland's bank and Anion Bank, so the bank business has changed very quickly because of the circumstances that have come up. In other words, if the bank's money is about 630 billion bucks. is the worst stage of the movie that 50% of the bank's own money would disappear if all the money they borrowed was to be lost. However, there have been ideas from the interest groups to cancel these loans. But it doesn't make sense to my judgment. Decades simply have to change the demands of stock, and then, as noted, they do. From counsellors, unwilling to save everyone. There are some companies that come up with a breakdown, that's inevitable, society that was in debt to the virus epidemic. Mr. President. The central category has since the beginning of the economic catastrophes now taking over the nation because of the viral epidemic stressed that there will be time for major and general action, to minimize the economic damage we are facing. However, the government decides to take a number of limited measures, making it more difficult now to cover up the necessary employment and home. The media has at the early stage of this case in cooperation with a smaller section of the legal committee, and at this point they have proposed a change in proposals made by the government class. In addition, the media has published a number of suggestions and tips, along with sending suggestions to the prime minister and the Ministry of Presidency, as requested by e - mail. One of the suggestions presented by the class is to cancel the insurance fee until the yeardays, and the category will carry the change proposal of the material to the budget. Icelandic tax returns are high in international comparison, and they are now one of the highest in the northern countries of Norway. In an effort to close the budget, companies were raised significantly after the 2008 economic collapse. However, these tax changes have been promoted, and the government has been having great difficulty down payment on insurance. It's one of the big revenues of the state fund. High insurance costs are worst for companies where pay and pay-or-remuneration are largely expensive. A large debt of insurance weakens the competitiveness of such companies. The improved competitiveness of Iceland is very important and especially when we are facing an economic crisis. Especially is the government's contract an emphasis on reducing the insurance fee. It is very important to be followed. The industrial organization has concluded that way. As we know, the insurance fee is a special price paid by the remunerationpayers. The competition between international enterprises has deteriorated over the past few years, and there is considerable uncertainty ahead of us. This trend is visiblely reduced in the value of exporting and of the enterprises on the national markets that compete with foreign companies. For the 2008 financial collapse, the insurance bill was 5.34% but was then raised to 8.65%. The fact is, the tax paid has increasingly been used to finance other financial expenses. The pay is calculated as a percentage of the salary paid by the company to its employees. The more bucks the company pays, the more money it needs to pay for insurance. The higher the insurance bill, the more expensive the employee is for the company. The price reduces the ability of an enterprise to invest and create jobs, as mentioned earlier. So private companies are blocked by high insurance costs. This is very important to bear in mind. Now we are in the situation where every job and job does not come about by themselves. The government has to do everything within their power to reduce the unemployment rate at a historical level and the temporary decline of insurance, as the central category suggests, makes it easier for companies to hold on to their staff at difficult times and hire new employees who, in turn, increase the tax pay of the state funds so that it is truly a great benefit of temporary down payment. Insurance bills were estimated to be about 100 billion for one year, and over a six - month period, that is about 50 billion. But when someone else is out of work, it is clear that it does not cost a government budget of 50 billion to eliminate the cost in a year. It would almost be necessary to do about that. 25 billion, and then it's encouraging for companies to hire employees, and hopefully they can do this afterward by making additional arrangements. So it is reasonable to assume that it will return a certain amount of money to the state fund. We think it's almost okay that it costs about that. At the end of the year, insurance costs are temporarily canceled. This is small in comparison with what has already been done. I'm going to give you my resignation that's costing the state funds over 30 billion, up to 37 billion. Mr. President. Finally, I encourage the government to give careful consideration to canceling insurance money until the yeardays and to support the adjustment of our budgets for tomorrow's budget. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The one before the speech is Þórarinsson's son. He spoke of getting companies to safety, and I can well agree with that view. But I wondered: " What about getting individuals and families to safety? We know that people fear for their survival, understandable. People are losing their income and their livelihood. Understandably, many people are concerned about the possibility of losing their homes. Therefore, I would like to mention a bill that Porta's body has proposed a delay in forced halls, assuming that forced sales in people's homes will not be carried out in the next year while we are taking refuge from this health problem and while the economic situation is just as it is. I roll it up, at least in the previous answer, anyway. A senator might consider supporting the issue, whether he feels that he is not responsible for protecting his homes and making sure that there is no forced sale in people's homes right now, when all of us must stick together and maintain the standard of living, the people of the country. Is not correct at least to postpone forced halls for the year and thereby protect the privacy of the people in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent answer. I take to heart that it is very important to protect homes as well as businesses and jobs in the activities that governments have been working on. In the Middle East, we have offered suggestions to meet our homes specifically and to offer suggestions on how to handle these matters. I'd like to mention special circumstances for those who become unemployed, underdeveloped property bills, etc., which we've proposed. In my mind, this is very important and I will examine Pirata's bill for delaying forced halls with a very open mind. I agree completely with what. A senator that no family in the country should have to lose their home because of this viral epidemic we are not responsible for. Therefore, it is well worth considering such a bill carefully and seeing if it cannot be used in the present circumstances, which are, of course, unprecedented. Sadly, we know this from the collapse of the economy when thousands of Icelanders lost their homes because of circumstances that, we should say, those in the financial sector were responsible. I'm glad I get to look at this bill. I haven't studied it yet, but I will, of course, do it with an open mind. I reiterate what I said earlier: There is no family in Iceland who has to lose their home because of the disasters that have struck the nation because of the virus epidemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u52	A respectable president. It's nice to hear that a senator intends to examine our Pirata bill with an open mind. We believe it is an important introduction, a very important post on privacy and privacy of the home, that people do not lose their homes because of the epidemic, as it were. A senator came in so well. I would like a second answer to focus my eyes on the policy and policy of the government when it comes to this action and what we have felt was a bit contradictory, i.e. to ensure that, on the other hand, what the government calls a recruitment relationship between people and businesses, but then there is, as it happens. paritaprevir The Birgir men of Þórarinsson came into their speech, to make up the treasuries. I wondered what the government's message is sending about a lot of very effective measures that we are now discussing on this round, but at the same time, this message is coming: we're going to help you break up people. The other is aimed at maintaining employment levels, maintaining recruitment relationships, but in this case we are creating a financial incentive for companies to resign. I wonder what it says about the government's overall vision of her actions and whether she thinks about what one movement on the counter will do to all the other players. Got it. A senator's definition is good enough, and his deep thinking is behind him, or is his direction clear enough to determine where we are going?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u53	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's excellent counterargument and speculation in these matters. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. A senator, there are strong contradictions in this situation. A senator mentioned in the operation of the government. Like what? A senator rightly mentioned it, and I have mentioned it here, is talking about keeping in the recruitment relationship, and then, at the other end, it's just safe to say it -- to resign because it's natural motivation to get money to resign from employees. We saw that as soon as it was published, there was a crack of group information. I think it's evidence that the government is in some kind of Panic state and doesn't know exactly what to do next. She just grabs something someone's been pointing her at; that some particular company needs this, and that's why they're welcomed and made that action that I don't think was well planned. There is also another point to mention here, that the actions many of which have been accepted large measures, such as The bridge loan, at 50 billion bucks. and then the support loans of some 40 billion are not yet under way. They're not implemented. There has been a great deal of resistance in the negotiations between the Federal Bank and the financial companies in implementing these loans, etc. On the other hand, there was a hurry to agree on this to a financial committee. We were not allowed to call someone or anything and consider the matter. So there are a number of things the government has to do, sadly, that it would have had to consider much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u54	A respectable president. I'd like to start by going over what has been recently mentioned here in a punk lately, i.e. tax and, especially, insurance. At least I've been looking for two ways to go. 3.m. The South, Birgir Þórarinsson, has suggested that insurance be canceled this year. There's a suggestion on the way, from what we hear, from the debate. The senator I am also here to examine with a very open mind, such as the dog. A senator mentioned a proposal from the Piranha. But others have suggested another form of forced sale, and I would like to mention that matter. The Congress party of Pirata recently proposed, yesterday reminds me, the bill of postponing forced halls. That bill is based on others who have been submitted in other circumstances and because of others, and for that reason, we know that it will pass the complete test of law. We know it's working, we know it's working, we know it's possible. We also feel that if at any time there were circumstances and reasons to delay forced halls, that time is clearly clear today. But I also have to say that we had a bit of a rush to contribute the bill because the sooner things get done, the more likely they are to get a proper discussion in time. Porta's members should not think that they are trying to stand out as the only group to support this. The idea of postponing forced halls is not a personal matter of Pirata but has often developed support from various sources. So I don't mean to say that we have any patent on this rather than a number of other good ideas, and it's equally unusual that a good thing should be done between parties, especially by terms of terms, but even within the terms of term and nothing about checking. I just wanted to say this because the movers on the set at the moment are just Pirata's senators. The goal is not to pretend to be more heroic than other people who have contributed the same material. In terms of taxes, and especially after a fine discussion. Birgir Willum Þór Thor Þór Þórsson. Þórarinsson I've been thinking about what I've been doing here. paritaprevir Willum Thor Thor Þórsson said about the importance of maintaining balance in income and financial expenses in time, especially in summer and fall, there may be a line dance. I think you're right. But if you look to that particular challenge, I think that the most important thing is to try to support people by reducing the tax burden, not just for companies, but for individuals as well. This, of course, depends on all the opinions needed to take such action. The budget and the what. A financial and business committee, because it's easy to imagine and suggest, but there's another way to figure out how it works. Then, of course, the exact effect of all these actions on meeting together is not clear. It won't be clear until afterwards. Like what? paritaprevir Willum Þórsson Þrsson mentioned earlier, we are blessed to know that under the laws on public finances, we have financial resources to help us assess the effects of our actions. But doing things only with taxes is also not a good idea because it had to be discussed with the particular problem which line dancing would be followed by keeping the balance between spending and earning. It is not the only problem, to make sure that there is a balance. The problem is also a flow of funds, simply enough demand in the country to get ahead of the job. There we face some unpleasant problems and perhaps some ironic problems, especially with regard to climate change. We are faced with the challenge of actually having to get started at times when we are trying to reduce it. This is an endogenous irony in our situation, which I think is just beginning to understand how profound it is. Now, of the news I hear, this has reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 8% worldwide, which is the most known to have ever happened. You would think it would be a huge success, but it would have to be the same until 2050, so that we would reach our goals, which tell us a little bit about that situation, this terrible situation, we should ask for more in ourselves. That should bring out cold sweat, a respectable president, since we don't want to. The point is: We need to think more about the future, not just from these specific circumstances and how we return to 2018 and 2019. We need to think further about how we will sustain human society and the welfare that we will maintain in view of reality that is basically different from what we once lived. This is what climate changes yell in our face, but we've ignored because we can't find the effect on our skins quite immediately, they'll come a long time later. It is well - known in all psychology that people react to immediate pain. People are not very good at making decisions based on their own interests if their effects appear later in the future. This is well - known, and I think that all people are quite familiar with not spending time with older ones when they are young as an example. This is exactly the same alpine, exactly the same logic, a respectable president. Of course, we have no solution. Maybe we'll ask why. A central body of solutions to these issues, like everyone else. But this is something that I think it's worth thinking about when we're focusing on the particular problem of getting the economy back on. Now I am not just talking about problems, compare with a strange speech I recently heard about. A panel of greener greener people would be such a problem squad than what? Central class of solutions, interesting approach. But it's an outcast. I also want to study solutions or at least solutions. That is, in short, if I had to crush all those studies down to one word, innovation. Science and progress in knowledge and technology. Indeed, it is science, innovation, and technological development that have moved mankind's prosperity for a considerable time now. And well - meant - the big, really big problems in the world today, such as climate change, depression, obesity in some communities, are so - called financial problems that we are experiencing because we are doing so well that it's kind of too much of a good thing. There are things that should be told us. It does not tell us that science is a problem in itself. That means science works so well. Moreover, this has proved to be so when science creates problems or causes problems, the solution is often found at the same site, although in science and innovation. The situation in Iceland is that we have had three, maybe four of the exports most spoken of, and now the tourist service that has been most famous lately, but is now hardly so much anymore, is hardly a resemblance to what it was a few months ago. I'm afraid it won't be the way it was for a while. Let's just face the fact that he may never be just as he was. We must, in my opinion, find more ways to increase our exports, new ways that do not build, at least not only on existing ones, such as fishing roads, agriculture, aluminium production or industry and tourism. The opportunity there, the light in the dark, is found in innovation and development, supporting what we do not know in advance. By the way, there's just a little problem with supporting innovation and science in general, we don't know in advance what we're getting. It's a problem I think all the scientific institutions and knowledge institutions are facing, trying to convince investors or authorities or even customers what happens to the money. And the answer is: We're just not quite sure, we don't quite know what it is, we'll come back to you later. Maybe nothing. That happens too. I'd like to mention at least... Two things in the context that I know that both tend to raise eyebrows on people because they may not be accustomed to think or talk about them in the context of Iceland. One is a civilian salary that I'm going to put on a little later, but the other is a phenomenon that I don't want people to take so that I'm putting up here as a solution to the problem. It's just that when no one talks about something, it's okay for one to talk a little bit about it. It's space science. Of course, many who are listening and thinking, yes, could possibly say that the Pirat wanted to go into outer space. But that is now, and I encourage listeners to look it up, that there is a marvelous vegetation in space science today. Much of the technology we enjoy in everyday life comes from there. Thus, space science is not just about shooting stuff into space but about using the knowledge we receive through the sciences and all the technology in which it is more or less all science. In Iceland, we are extremely strong in several aspects, one of which is knowledge of technology. Iceland is just a fairly strong nation when it comes to technical knowledge, especially software and artificial intelligence. Fake intelligence is one of the technologies that surround the world in many ways and for full purpose. I'll mention it as long as I'm in a pendant, but repeat again that this is not the solution to the problem. This is just one of the things we never talk about here in Iceland, and I think it's the same reason not to be spoken of in Estonia or in Malta because small, small, and small nations, like Iceland, often give themselves the opportunity to participate in space science, they need to be a big nation. This may be because we are accustomed to thinking about the United States, the Soviet Union, the Cold War, the Moonlands, and so on. But it's just not reality anymore. There is no need for us to shun space science rather than physics or mathematics. We have exactly the same point. So the nation's weight has nothing to do with it. These activities can be carried out by institutions and a variety of companies, a number of them, in fact. The private business has grown tremendously in space science, and it is called in English ◯newspace, i.e. new space, a new atmosphere, a frightening fashion, actually, but the private enterprise is, that is, of a very rich field. That's where the opportunities are. It is really in the private sector and in the space industry when it comes to their responsibility for science. But now I'm not going to spend all of my speech or the patience of my audience on this, hopefully there will be further opportunities to discuss all of this. I just want to finish this by saying that space science is not just space, it has to do with the earth and has to do with things like seabeds and agriculture. It's space science that helps us make better use of the earth, knowing where to plant it, etc. And it's space science that will continue to lead us in dealing with the impacts of climate change on the sea and changes in fish stocks and such. It's not just about dreams in the clouds, though they are important too. It's about the earth, it's about real jobs on the land, on the earth. Most of all, I'd like to mention civilian pay. I repeat, I do not present that idea as some solution to the problem we are facing right now. But to study this bill, I notice what is understandable and cannot object in itself that it is all based on responding to any damage to the system we have to begin with, reducing negative influences here, improving the beneficial effects there, etc. Civil pay is an idea that I've been very suspicious of over the years, and I'm still. It's not that civilians can be hit on like that and that's when everything gets messed up. To introduce it to the audience who have not heard of it before, it involves a rather radical measure of simply paying people out money, monthly, just for their existence. There's no impairment, there's no condition, just money in the pocket every month. For some reason, the most harsh of the left men and the most tough right men have come to know this idea, but basically everyone in the middle is very suspicious of it, as a means of understanding because it is radical. She's very weird, she's a little different with what we're used to talking about in economics for a good reason. In recent years, however, despite my strong suspicions, I am more inclined to agree that sooner or later, probably later, we need to start thinking in an economy based on some particular floor that no one goes under, no matter how small the person works, no matter how little the person makes. The question in my mind, the major theoretical question is, not whether this is practical, but how could it be done and what was the sacrifice? It's a long-term vision that I repeat again, I don't suggest it here and now, I count it, e.g. Not realistic in the form of a bill today, but I think we end there at some point, just as at the time, people couldn't imagine having a currency that didn't rest on being replaced by something, like gold. It works well to have a currency without gold, it works differently, but nothing much different as you might think. I think it's the same with civilian pay. But I'm gonna make it wait later to discuss it further. I've already spent more time on these specific points than I planned, a respected president, and I apologize for that. Then finally I'd like to face what's happening. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr, mentioned in the Committee's opinion that more support could be provided for innovation in the bill. I totally respect that 35% of those proposed in the Committee opinion is the product of some sort of compromise, because somewhere this has to land. I understand that, I totally respect that. But I think that in the innovation, the seeds we'll be happy to have sown now in a very rich way. Of course, I do not reduce the importance of pursuing the emergency work that is now needed to help people today. That's a key, because the people today will be most, hopefully, people too tomorrow. The very nature of innovation is that the future is uncertain. If we are going to build a bridge or build a road, we can say about how many jobs we get, how much money we're paying for. In innovation, that's not usually the case. We don't know exactly what's going to work. We don't know the future. Of course, there is a measure of fear, or a phobia, when it comes to putting money on the concept of innovation, and especially when the situation is intense, people want to know what it is doing. They want to know in advance what it'll get for the money and in what way it will help. It becomes so valuable when there is great uncertainty, as in this situation. That's a totally understandable attitude. There is nothing else to expect from human beings or wise authorities if it is taken, and it is important to me that we keep the prosperity we have been accustomed to today because people took risks, betting on something they did not know what would happen. Then we walked on the moon.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u55	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson's speech to which he covered all kinds of fields and ideas. I knew a lot of things in my speech, such as. His comments about innovation, evolution, and technology and climate change, although he may not have made much progress in dealing with climate change under current conditions. Also interesting to hear was the thought. A senator talks about the private sector and space science that I have to admit is quite refreshing to hear about here, and perhaps more of his ideas could be heard when it comes to it. However, I wanted to come up here to get a closer look at it. A senator with income ideas for a state fund. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son made it clear that taxes were not to be raised under current circumstances but were not to be reasoned with. It is clear that in the crisis facing all of us, the Icelandic population is about to sail into an enormous loss of income. The World Cash Fund has predicted that about 3% of the world's global economic recession rate, while Iceland's recession may be much higher, up to 8%. The population income loss can be estimated to be up to 25% of gross production in one year of about 750 billion. I'd like to hear some ideas from you. A senator because we have not been able to discuss it enough at a council hall how government funds can earn money and earn money to meet challenges that are different from those we face in borrowing. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to hear some ideas from you. A senator because I felt that he would knock off the board pretty fast and maybe not have enough logical reasoning to back up some kind of money for a trust fund. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u56	A respectable president. Maybe I've spoken indiscriminately or put things inexplicably, for I didn't think I had said, and I hope I didn't do it, that I could not raise taxes at all. What I wanted to come to is that in connection with the goal of maintaining balance in the state's income and expenses, in the course of time, it is best to use taxes, but the goal is much more complex and more complex than that. I was trying to use a certain straw on a certain factor. However, with regard to taxation in general, in an effort to make up for this possible misunderstanding if I have spoken unwisely, I have nothing against taxing income and, in particular, high income. I'm very into it, and I don't know any other good ways to earn money. I've tried to dream about things many times, but I didn't find any solution other than them. Likewise, when we think of things like civilian pay, which is a fantasy world vision now, I see no other way of saying that there is a certain bottom that we shouldn't go under and not plan to live under, no matter what he does little and does little, and despite the fact that we think it is impossible, or not, or anything. Similarly, I think there must be a certain roof somewhere. When I hear of an insane amount of money, such as when people have tens of billions of dollars of property, a respectable president, I think it's just weird. I think there's a lot of room to change basically how we think about the tax system and its purpose and keep a certain decent bottom in the economy. [[The president calls.]] I'm back on long-term thinking so I don't have any clean-up plans. But at least I don't feel that we can't raise taxes at all. [[The president calls.]] I'm just saying that when it comes to this particular goal that I mentioned them we should view tax reductions in these situations as part of our solutions to that problem. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u57	Mr. President. We're out of business. If it is his idea that taxes are not to be raised at all, then perhaps we should have these discussions before better time and longer discussion. What I wanted to ask you. A senator in my second stand was a civilian salary. It's been a fairly small business discussion in Iceland. At the same time, it has developed in all kinds of exciting directions, and then I'm talking about it developing in a rather unexpected summer in Europe, in countries where civil pay ideas were what was most louder several years ago. In fact, people have abandoned the idea of a flat civil pay for everyone to pay for certain groups of society, to form for artists or other community groups. Our socialist ideals seem to conflict with the flat pay that we must ensure the well - being of all citizens, especially those who are walking in palaces. There the state has at least two main roles, to ensure the well - being and security of its citizens and to contribute to some kind of construction of the economy, on the other hand. But the ideas of civilian pay have not been given enough mature discussions in Iceland, so I'd like to have this conversation over in time. Senator. I know we don't have a lot of time, but because he's dealing with his ideas about civilian pay in his speech, I'd like to get past him a little more detailed ideas about civilian pay and how he could imagine them in the situation that we are facing right now, because he's linking this up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u58	A respectable president. As I mentioned in my speech, I personally have been very suspicious of the idea of civilian pay so far. I've been in favor of looking into the matter and seeing if this could work at any time, but then when this crisis came up and I was listening to the discussion, I began to wonder if the community was not basically able to resist pressing a break in the economy from time to time. Shouldn't society be able to accept that while some people do nothing and do nothing to society for some reason, even just because they don't bother, they should still have a roof over their heads and food? Have we not come to that place, no matter whether people work or not? Aren't we rich enough? This is similar to what I think sometimes when it comes to work rights and abbreviated week of work. Now we have had our eight hours of secular work, which has been changing recently and in good condition. But at the time when it was decided that we would work eight hours a day, it was only 24 hours divided by three hours. The day was divided into three pieces, and we were supposed to work eight hours a day. There was no assessment of what it would take to maintain adequate society, it was just 24 hours divided by three, eight hours to sleep, eight hours to work, and eight hours to play you. Since then, the most incredible technological advances in human history, the most incredible technological advances known to have occurred in any species, in any scheme, in any solar system, and may be unique in our galaxy, and even beyond. That's what a respectable president says. The prices we have become accustomed to today and take for granted are so great that we must simply be able to take more time to do what we want. Now, in terms of civilian pay, I don't have the wire, I don't have it yet and I may never have it, I might. But if I look at the community we live in and the consequences of a break on the economy for a while, I don't think that's quite the opposite of what we could do. [[The president calls.]] I have to admit, I don't have the answers for this. It's just ideas I think it's time to talk about. If they do not have to be discussed, the solutions will never be found.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the body of rich, favorable speech. Sometimes it is said that the other and that there is no space science, meaning that it is a rather simple truth. But that speech contained space science, and I think it is well done by then. A senator, as well as a number of very interesting subjects for the community as well as the civilian prize. I'd like to have a place to say. A senator for the bill we have here on the topic and the proposed adjustment as a representative of the United Nations on the Economic and Business Committee, why. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir, has submitted a new provisional policy on unemployment insurance where these are expected to be increased. Fifty-one thousand dollars. in the period between June 1 and December 31, as well as the increase of basic non-employment benefits due to extensions with each child up to 6%. I wanted to hear what I was doing. A senator will not support this change and whether we should not expect him to join us, and his people, with a full range of unworked people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u60	A respectable president. I have to thank you. A senator reminding me that I could have spent time with my talk on this subject because it is worthy. For my part, I can't speak for my entire council, the answer is: Yes, I'm here to support these changes, and I think they're good. In itself, I have no more to add, I feel that the argument to them is fine, as it lies before them. I hope that answers a question. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this repetitious answer, which was clear and expressive. No one needs to be misled. The senator's case, and he's well worth it. As a result, I want to remind you that when people lose their jobs, there are no fewer financial obligations they have. Even if people had been on a good salary, they still have a huge commitment. There are still many mouths to feed, many mouths to eat. There are various costs for their children and so forth. Since the cost of life is not reduced from going out of work, it is so important that society in general recognizes it and joins people in such activities. What a shock it is for people to become unemployed! It can be a traumatic event, a social shock, and a very difficult experience that has been described by many. If this adds much concern for family life, children, and the loss of possible homes and housing, the community in general is obliged to make sure that their concerns remain the least.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u62	A respectable president. I don't have much to say in return. Senator. Whatever we think of the community's obligation to offer unemployment benefits for people who lose their jobs, I would argue that it would be wise for society to make that choice. I am so glad to live in a community where it is no longer a radical idea to offer unemployment benefits, but there was a time when that was the case. Public insurance also felt very radical at its time and social systems that we take for granted, at any rate in my generation, were all radical ideas at the time and were completely out of the map on the scale of their cost and how devastating it would all be, including limiting the work period to eight hours a day. There were many prophecies of doom that the economy could not survive them. As we often do with such prophecies of doom, a respectable president, that was nonsense as we know it. It warms me to the thought of a change in plans why. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter, as I briefly explained earlier, is good. They're relatively free of charge. They're not radical. No one here says that it can't be, that it's unrealistic, that it's so crazy, as people might say about the idea of civilian pay, and I'd understand that debate better. But I am very glad that this is how we can react, that there are no real conflicts, so that there are signs, in the community of unemployment benefits, and other social systems that we take for granted to help society continue after trauma. It's not just our duty, it's also wise in terms of the general welfare of society. There is no need for compassion, that is just the end of the matter. [[Upwards: No rocket science.]] No space science.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u63	V.E.G. President. This discussion has been remarkable. If I should mention a moment that stands out in my mind, it's when head of the 20th and one of the old parties declared that in traditional agricultural products we should have riches. When I heard it, I felt warm of heart. But I've been fascinated by many talks I've heard during the discussion today. I was, for example. How pleased with the speech of each one! paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn's Gunnarsson, who he moved back earlier, is the reason I can agree with a lot of what he said and go over. I was also very happy yesterday when I was. paritaprevir Sadly, Red Björk Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfóttir, who has left the hall, gave a two - minute talk in which she said green so many times that I thought of what Tómas said; even old telephone poles singing / in the sunshine and becoming green again, with the permission of a president. I did very well. What I was going to put into words right now is that it's as bad as it is. Brynjólfsdóttir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson said earlier about the technology and innovation and whatever it was. paritaprevir We can work with what we now have. First of all, we think soon and second in length. If we think soon, what will we do? What must we do? We have 50,000 or more of them out of work. What is the largest thing we can do to do them back in some way? Presumably, air travel will begin again and air travel will be protected in Iceland. Of course, we need to be careful when that time comes. But there is absolutely no need for that time to come. I was very happy yesterday or probably yesterday when I heard the former president of the Republic say that he believed here would be looking for people who were avoiding the Covid virus. I think he's absolutely right. That's why I've thought that when we make sure that there's a flight and from the country, I think one of the instruments is pointing some part of the flight to Egls and Akureyri, not necessarily in that order. I'm quite convinced of that -- here in the hall is here. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenlfóttir, who I was kissing earlier, and I'm happy about it. I'm convinced that this is where people who are avoiding the virus will be looking for them. This suggests that recently, Iceland has been placed on a bench with some two, three other nations as an example of dealing with this virus in a scientific, efficient, and organized way. I'm convinced that the outside world is full of people waiting to get into the environment they feel safe, and we believe our environment is safe, with the warning that in 1918 it was the second wave that killed people, not the first one, but the second one, and then 510 people went to Reykjavík in three to six weeks, I don't quite remember the period. At that time, the city was about 45,000 or so. Of course, we need to be careful. But this is what we need to do soon. I've talked about it before that I've missed the proposals of governments, which in many ways have been good, that they are not very bold. They're not progressive. Of course, we're all in the same pond now, hoping that no water will go up to our boots, but now we should think about what we're going to do next and get up. Then came the very thing that was so inspired. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson before and at the moment. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryfjörðurdóttir: We can combine green and technology and innovation with what we have. What do I mean? Among other things, land on fire, land on fish. How? Not just salmon, we lead a pink farm, we can do more of that. A few years ago, I suggested that men should start a war in Iceland so we could make real trouble. They looked at me and thought that not everyone was home. But now there's a little experimental starting with Smokeynes. The start is about six years old and is two years old. It's possible. And because this is possible, I asked a fish farmer I met here at the General House last year if he thought we could grow more species, more expensive. Turbine shells and lobsters, for now our lobster is disappearing, unfortunately, or even tuna fish. He said yes to all of it. Then I come back to what I've said a few times in this sermon that what the Central Party has stressed in all of this situation now is that we welcome all of the government's proposals. We support them. We try to improve them, as the whole government has done. I have to say now, because I've already commended this discussion, that I really can't compliment my government position in Iceland enough. She has been responsible, she has taken her responsibility. She has offered very practical suggestions, but the government has, unfortunately, had no courage or confidence to accept them, some of which have, but all of that is well - known. There was no Coca Cola logo on the suggestions we made, so it was okay. It is hoped that the government grows courage and self - confidence enough to follow up on good suggestions because they are good, no matter where they come from. I hope that happens. Then I will continue with what I was talking about: What can we do now? We need to do the 50,000 jobs back. How will we do so? How are we going to mix technology with greener thinking with what we have? Yes, by making food. First and foremost, to feed ourselves. It was also watched with pity those who spoke for food security here, were smooching into the napkin, or something like that when you were talking about it, but now suddenly it's like the blessed beast understood, and people have come to realize what this really means. This does not just mean that we eat our own bread. This means that instead of flying tomatoes here from the Canary Islands, we bring them here all year long. Then there are Icelandic vegan farmers. Everybody says it's such a great system that was built for them 15, 20 years ago, but it wasn't that great. These good people were producing four to five species, and, as you say, they got peace to do it by the side of the supermarkets and by the rest. It was fine to have them on that shelf, and then they could have other vegetables as expensive as humans wanted. This is to be removed, however, and we should start producing more species of vegetables than we do today, a lot more. And not only other species but more valuable species. Exceptional crisis, I'm talking about a few decades, has always been accompanied by progress. We are, for example. now fishing just some 200,000 tons of cod or just under it. We have far more than we had half a million tons a few decades ago. When the harvest was added, we were forced to make more valuable from what we withdrew from the sea. In exactly the same way, I think we should do it now that we're in a crisis. What I read in a news report during the days may be one of the best examples of how Icelanders often react or how people react to new circumstances. A very good farmer in smokeholt, Bishops, runs a very popular tourist attraction and a greenhouse called the World of Peace. The growth in tourism there was a fairy tale, the place magnificent. But now that the tourists get blown up all of a sudden, what does he do? He intends to double the gardening station to produce more of the tomatoes that he did not put so much emphasis on while keeping the tourists in his barn. This is an example of what we can do as a nation and what we should do here to help people and help them to succeed like these and to make decisions like these. One thing that has been very lacking, I think, in the matters that the government has so far advanced, is an investment plan. It's all right. I'll take it off, but we're missing so much, much more. What do we need in order to increase the variety of productions? We need technology. We need technology in the description. We need technology and biologists to tell us how to grow, whether it is fish, vegetables, or what it is. Then let me remind you once again that some ten years ago, there was lice in Iceland. That's one of the saddest things you've ever experienced. 20 - year - old science went down the drains at a moment because there was very little money that was needed to continue and keep all of this alive. It was a great accident. Now we may have the opportunity to go back a little and see if we can't get started again. We make this old knowledge, it exists, and we can build on it. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson spoke of innovation and technology earlier. There we have an enormous potential. We have an amazing technical firm. When I sat at a council in 2013, I had no idea that Iceland was a company that built submarines, much less my old hometown, Kopavogi. There are built submarines in Kopavogi. They are built robots, which some call cooling off, but the matter of Congress is Icelandic. The design and construction are being made in two, three locations in Iceland. Some have gone to work in aluminiums and have saved much time and resources. Because I'm talking about intertwining the food production, and so on, our technology may have won just the biggest victories there. There are companies such as 3X, Valka, and Marel, who are increasing the value of food we produce here, and then the industry is growing as big as the sea road. What we now need, and that will help us to miss the next amount of time that is minimally high enough for us to spend in the next 36◯40 months is increasing our value. What we are doing now is that we are saving valuables. I view it as something to be valuable, and once we have done so, we need to focus on increasing our value again. There was a reference to taxes and tax returns earlier, but we do nothing better than firstly do business to hire employees, and that's what we do by agreeing to our Middle Class proposal when it appears in the next few days that there will be no insurance fees in this year. The government has now taken measures that, what I'm going to say, help companies lay people off. It's time to help companies hire people. We need to deal with it, and then we need to maximise the value of what we have. Then I quote another positive report that I read a few days ago, where a scientist said it was more valuable in a pound of enzyme than one ton of cod. May I mention a business like Kercis at Isafjörður, a biotechnology firm like Genos on Siglusar? We have all these possibilities, we have knowledge, we have people who can carry out and win. What we need to do now is encourage it, create a need to make sure that we do not burden it with taxes or slow it down. Then let me mention a company south of Smokeynes, which is ready for now to double its production of pink, high quality production, completely green, sort of energy free, except for the use of hot water. May I mention that by 1990, Nesjavalle reactivation here opened to pagans. All the falling water from that factory has run down for 30 years and has ended up in Lake Þingvalala. Hellish activation runs the water that is not being drilled down and made to what is called crescent gold, down the Allifus and the Mini Schools. It could run through a lot of fish farms, it could run through a lot of greenhouses. Perhaps this crisis teaches us to stop wasting as we do and start showing respect for the valuables we are breaking the land to reach. To do so, we need something else. What the government has done is pursue the situation rather than face it. I don't have a copy theory. That's what we said right at the start of the road. The minister of finance proclaimed his theory of doing more than less, which has since leaked out. We need to take immediate steps to do so and determine what we would like to do: Where do we want to be in six months, nine, 12, 18? And work on it now. This was a talk about people and businesses as if they were either of them. I've never been into a company where there aren't people, from one man up to thousands. Business is just a group of people. This is what we need to lay the foundation for right now. We need to strengthen our resolve now, and we need to listen to one another as we have been doing. We need to make the best suggestions, no matter where they come from, and we need to apply them. But this requires that the government acquire the courage to listen to practical suggestions and take them seriously. I haven't mentioned the drug industry yet. But as I say, there are opportunities all over the place. What we need to do now is map them and increase them. And because I had my mind in the South of Grindavík, it's a company that wants double its production to wait 18 months after one permit. Businesses in that industry and others are sold under the fact that if they don't do something, they get paid. I got a phone call the other day, and he said, "Why isn't it that when an institution draws it more than reasonably necessary to allow it to continue working, the Agency gets daylight? It's a brilliant idea or an extremely good idea, Mr. President. What I wanted to say is that the opportunities are there. All we have to do now is grab them. We need to map them together and make the biggest of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u64	A respectable president. In these critical uncertainty times, in these blurred times, when new and new scenarios are drawn up with few days apart and not all so bright, it is important not to panic, to look up, to look to the future. The situation is temporary, a strange condition that cannot be compared to any natural disaster, an earthquake, or a volcanic eruption, a storm, or a storm. This is more like grieving times or slow moments, quieting places where everything is quiet and quiet, people's traffic and vehicles are contracting, and nothing is like virtually no living Icelanders have ever experienced. A respectable president. New projects, new subjects waiting. The future awaits. Those are exciting times. Technology moves forward, and we focus on transformation in various areas. We're talking about the fourth industrial revolution, with an explosive impact on artificial intelligence, cooling technology, self-sustaining cars, automation and other things that will likely cause major social changes in the coming years, decades, and decades. Thus, innovation is a key concept, a fundamental factor for an independent nation that aims to promote well - being and to provide its subjects with the ideal life, such as the best known among the nations. There are many exciting things happening in this area in Iceland. Many rods and fragrances that make good promises or can do so if only they receive soil and take root. Indeed, there are companies that have achieved this essential solidity and have become hot, powerful, and important in Icelandic commercial life, developed high-tech companies that have a range of international markets. I would like to focus on the country's environment and give an example: a company that operates in two places in my district, in the Aquilin family, and on the Isafjord. It is the company's Swahili 3X, which has a global business with its high - tech products developed, especially in the fishing industry. The innovation in the country is important but at the same time fragile. That's a very special concern. If I just look at my district, there are a number of new things that actually bloom in many ways. I'll let me take this deep in. On Skaga Beach, for example. is an active marine bioengineering site based on research into the biodiversity of the Gulf and has all the potential for growth. Mixedose helps to identify interesting food development projects, and exciting possibilities are linked to data sets. Western Huns'Summit has a high level of fermentation and innovation in tourism and various tasks. In a sheep's jar, there are great ambitions to develop various types of goods produced in the fishing road. In fact, it also applies to agriculture products that are not used before. The business of Kercis is growing rapidly, a business that makes a valuable product of fishing for foreign markets. I could go on longer, but these are just chance examples of the country's possibilities and minds and challenges and new projects that will be faced in the future. There is no lack of interest, skill, and knowledge in the local people. If the benefits come, people will be quick. But ours is to provide a general basis for innovation to thrive and to take into account circumstances that are significantly removed and costly if appropriate, they must be brought to the same way on the market. In this regard, there is reason to wonder about what governments are actually showing as to the importance of this aspect, especially the factors involved in innovation in the country. The head of the Economic and Business Committee, what? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, who spoke for members of the committee today, including published by Jehovah's Witnesses. They were good as far as they could go. These factors help companies and even individuals to deal with the consequences of the pandemic Covid virus to meet certain conditions. But good government efforts are to be maintained. These are just things mentioned today. It's just a provisional point, but it's not for the sake of a innovation firm. That's the problem. Newborn and sceptical companies live in excess of uncertainty, and it is difficult for many of them to plan longer development and growth programmes. On Monday, the transport minister recommended a prime measure on the transport transport of oil products, which includes the subsiding of the transport balance reserve of oil. This is what I would like to make up for some publicity. It's a small bill, but it's important to those living in the country. From 2011 onward, the regional transport law is in place. Their aim is to support the production and construction of the country by equalizing the transport costs of the manufacturers located far from the domestic market or export and by having a less competitive position because of the higher transport costs than those located near the market. Many innovation companies say that this support is small and almost symbolic; it did not make a big difference in business; but this factor is a very heavy and extensive business team and makes a difference in the market. This needs to be considered and better if it is really the intention of strengthening the procrastinator and innovation in the country. With this prime minister, the transport system system of oil products is removed, and the management is taken to the Agency, as it happens, and carried the general transport equation. Incomes of oil input reserves are being made by importers of oil products paying the ravine tax. In 2018, a change in the law was made that the income is actually not in a specific transport balance fund but is running directly into a large and large fund that is never filled, i.e. Government funds. In addition, it was added that a minister's financial rights should, according to the financial laws, give money to the oil tax system, i.e. In this fund to balance the oil prices throughout the land, which is minimal to what is estimated to be a collection of the price. That money has paid off badly. The fund is considerably less money than the collections of immigrants. During 2016, the cost of earnings was about 366 million. K., 2017 387 million. K. and 2018, 403 million. K. and can be expected to 400 or 410 million came into this fund last year. But the amount determined on the budget of 2020 is 375 million. K. A respectable president. What happened to this difference? Is this equal enough? It is strange, and at least it does not reflect the price of gasoline to the inhabitants of the country. The most expensive liter today, in Hólmavík, where there are two stations, costs 209.50 bucks, but the cheapest liter in Reykjavík costs 183.40 k. This is an inadequate balance. The U.S. Union of Iceland, who celebrated the 20th birthday yesterday, doesn't feel right. It's not even. A number of people may feel that transport of fossil fuels is a time error and from the context of our vision in environmental and climate matters, that we should isolate ourselves with increased energy exchange. We are not happy to do this, but we have to remember that the supply of energy for transport in delicate areas of the country varies. So it is not yet possible to use large mechanical devices with new energy sources, e.g. In agriculture and freight transport. The time may be at hand, but during such a time, while we are not further in this process, it is only natural that the equality of a kingdom in which it is possible. This may also not apply just to agriculture. Fuel transport is also important for major users, e.g. In development, it thrives in smaller settlements in a wide variety of areas. In most areas, it is important to have comparable grounds for management. Governments should focus even more on a matter of thought. It involves both public transport and fuel prices, and the price is very relevant to history and, of course, is also linked to common farm conditions in the country. It was quite interesting to hear a secretary of transportation yesterday when he asserted that no matter what, this equation would be reduced by the transfer of the Agency to the Agency. He'd be important. As mentioned earlier, there is now a movement. Instead of the special price of oil products, a direct contribution from the state's funds is now to a regional transport equation of up to 175 million. K. which will be financed by an increase in oil products. The amount of money that goes into this equation, however, is 375 million on the budget in 2020. What's going on? Is it not obvious that this is a massive cut? No, the Minister says. The old system was costly and obsolete. The new system should return the same thing. The difference of 175 million. K. And 375 million. K. It is quite clear, and it is difficult to believe that 200 million people. K. this 375 billion has been paid for the cost of administrative care. K. ... boil. You wonder if you're using the old trick of introducing old wine in new wines, perhaps the time of miracles has come back. Now the water will be turned into wine, gasoline, and oil. Guð's good news. Or is it merely a cutting of dust into the eyes of the public in the region, a shrinking of transport, a cutting off between those living in the country and those living near the urban area? These points need to be explained, and we stress them in the Committee. One thing is certain: The growth and maintenance of innovation in the region depends on the procrastination of the wands on an equal base. Milk is a very good sign. That statement is never too often stated, for the fact is, the experience shows that there are opportunities there, and there are possibilities, both intelligent individuals, to begin with and their initiatives. We are to create an ideal situation for them wherever these pioneers are in the countryside. Separation and resources for those involved in product production are key elements. The cost of transport is one of the big cases, whether in a foreign business enterprise or in a international business. But we should then consider that more and more people build their food, their intelligence, and their technology on electronic solutions, where location is not important and communication takes place electronically. A respectable president. These factors must be kept in mind if we are to succeed in remaining as we would like to be; in the highest order.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u65	Mr. President. I'm going to comment on this government bill on further measures to cope with economic impacts following a pandemic crown virus. The first bill was about action for the crown virus, and this is now called further action. I wondered that if another such package comes, he will call it even more action and worry about what the fourth package will be after this and how much less that tenth. What name will be given to him? I'm not making fun of this, not at all, but I'm gonna put in a few things and point them out. The middle class has suggested that the insurance company be temporarily canceled, e.g. To next New Year's. Of course, if you want to lower your insurance fees as reported by the Reunion, they have followed our steps and offered suggestions that your insurance will be reduced by one quarter to one quarter of a year, which runs much less than yours. There may be some compromise and some other time, but we believe it is very important that the insurance bill be dropped or temporarily canceled. This is essential for companies who work in the country to see the opportunity to have employees at work. This, according to professional drivers, is a very burdensome price, although it is, as it were, the highest. Secretary of finance said, not high, 6.35%, but in addition to other expenditures. We feel free to say that if the fee was to be dropped temporarily or severely, it would give extra force to the labour market and prevent layoffs and enable many employers to hold on to some of their employees or employ more workers. We believe this is a good suggestion, and we expect the government to take it into account. We have also suggested that income taxes be temporarily reduced and up to 24% that would actually allow new blood in consumption and employment and provision of people at these times. True, this is an enormous number, but we feel that in the present situation, there are no small - dose cures. We need to deal with this. A reduction in taxes, although an animal, may look at it, is a general procedure that affects everyone, benefits everyone, and has the most widespread effect. We feel that small medicine by means of very many complex and complex procedures is not the right way to do it. We've talked about simple, general, and quick action in relation to what I've mentioned with the insurance bill and the reduction in income taxes, for example. I was going to talk about more things. I was going to talk about homes'status as unemployment is increasing. Such unemployment rates haven't been seen in a long time. We in the Middle East feel that governments are required to take measures to protect our homes so that we do not end up in the same situation as after the collapse of the bank in 2008, when, during the administration of governments at that time, the public worker, the household, and the debt were put aside to protect the financial system that resulted in a well - known result when at least Ten thousand homes were invited up and sold from people, and tens of thousands of Icelanders lost their homes. Much of them moved out of the country and are not back yet. We feel that unless the time is taken is taken, such disasters will be prevented by deliberate action. For example, we have talked about holding and freezing index increases. The bison has increased slightly, and there is a high risk that there will be a significant increase in the rate of higher currency levels, more than 17% in the last 60 days, and more than 15% in the euro. This is only revealed in a small amount but will be measured for the next weeks and months and will result in an inevitable rise in the cost of a loan, although it is certainly not as large a share of domestic loans as it was twelve years ago, while older loans are still being made up. Based on the real estate market today property will be at least will not rise and possibly decrease, so that the property of people in their homes will likely be reduced, similar to that of the bank crash. This danger is at hand, Mr. President, and I challenge the government to go at least. to prepare measures to freeze and disable the index, if the inflation occurs, because this will truly need to be prepared. On the contrary, and it is true, there is also evidence that there is something else because if prices drop and oil prices have dropped, the value is certainly against what I was referring to. But a 15% increase in imported products will result in the return of the index to the next week, so I challenge the government to consider this in the next action pack. I will also mention domestic production in a few chapters, first of all, agrienvironment schemes. I believe now is the right time, and I think there are a lot of people who agree with me in that, I've heard it from the speakers here today, to promote various domestic industry, agriculture and gardening, etc. It must then be displayed in simple, broad, and quick measures, now is the time to extend a helping hand in gardening and encourage them to increase production. Power prices could be reduced to them, that electrical prices would be at a level similar to that of a major industry. Granted, this is our industry, our gardening, and can become ours, and may become even greater than is currently available for domestic consumption and also for exporting. I urge governments not to hesitate to let new blood into the agriculture and garden. We have the best water in the world to grow and do agriculture. We have hot water in the earth to warm up greenhouses, and we also have clean air and wholesome products that are free of most of the diseases that other nations are fighting. We are in full possession, Mr. President, to promote this production in the country, with food security and security words that are being used today after this virus has developed. In the fall, I asked a minister what would help to stop the country. This danger is present and has always been. Recent examples include, for example, The 2008 flu epidemic, since this was very close to danger and in the Eyjafian eruption, was very close to the possibility of a blocked or delayed transport system. And those who remember the situation during the 2008 fallout remember that when we did not have credit, nobody wanted to sell us anything but against the cash, preferably hand them over the table directly. At the same time, it was very close to the danger that we would not as a nation be able to buy supplies for this country. So I asked about it and the answer was, in short, that there would be no alternative plans, if that happened. So they hoped this would not happen. We cannot allow ourselves, Mr. President, to sit and hope that nothing will happen, hope that bad things will not happen. We must prepare for and be as prepared as we can to deal with the problem when it appears to us. We have enough food, but we need fuel to get it, we need farm equipment fuel to grow the ground, and we need agriculture products. We need fuel on the ships to get the water to catch fish. For example, this is where it needs to be. being fuel supply monitoring so that there is always enough fuel in the country to keep us busy for a certain time. I'm not saying how long that is, but it has to be a certain time. In response to my query, supply of fuel was found to be in the lowest two weeks. I allow me to believe that it is too short for our safety. I'm also going to talk about something that is very important to my heart and interests. It's forestry. I believe the government is now going to use this opportunity to promote forestry. Why do I say that? First, because a forest planted does not disappear. It will not go away if there are viral epidemics, economic hardships, or failures in some industry, as Iceland and I have been through many times over the decades. We've been through many times that some professional business grows very fast and falls so fast again. Foresting is, in fact, a unique, very safe setting for the future. You plant trees. Then there is no great need to care for them for the next few years and decades, but you can always take the occasion or part of it out later. There is nothing that will change that if you work wisely at it. There's a currency that grows on its own and you can take it out as needed. I'm talking about crops. I'm not talking about the forest for beauty service. I'm talking about forests that can be used, i.e. as fuels, as are done, and forests that can be used for construction later and thus save enormous amounts of currency. Of course, additional products are many because the forest provides protection for other crops. The development of other vegetation is increasing near the forests because of the shelter and the weather conditions surrounding the forest. These are secondary loans from forestry. A forest is good for outdoors, good for the animal kingdom, for the well - watering structure of the area, and so on. I have spoken of the expansion of forestry because of the collapse of the bank 12 years ago, the forest grew very low and went down to 3 million trees planted each year and is still sitting on that number. I believe we're supposed to increase forestry again and still have a 4-fold increase because Iceland is a forestless country. When the settlers arrived here, the land was grown between the mountain and the sea, as fróður said in the Land Mine. Today, only a small part of the land is a forest. We need to make a great deal of that up there, Mr. President. I urge the government, already in charge of domestic production, to concentrate on foresting, multiply it, and plant trees for the future. I'm here with one of the top options of the forest, not just currency and timber and savings in future timber transfers to Iceland, but foresting is the most effective method of binding carbon. In these days when people talk a lot about the need for us to level ourselves as a nation, only 2% of Iceland's land of forest is needed to level all the emissions in Iceland. If one was planted on 2% of Iceland such a forest of carbon equal to Iceland would be complete. I want to point this out. These are the extras on what I'm talking about from forestry. Foresting is not just wood and currency savings, shelter, and so forth. It's also a carbon equation. I'd like to point out what's been a hobby of the highest interest. The minister of the environment, that there should grow up a forest, which in itself is good, good, and beautiful; but a bear forest may bind only one tenth of what a wood tree would bind. It would take much larger areas to bind the corresponding amounts of carbon than the most powerful tree species. I want to point this out, this is an operation that pays off and these actions can be started immediately this summer. You can also plant trees, or you can grow forests that are already forested. Then they can be made up in these forests. There students and people who lack employment can use them to do upbuilding work for the country and for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u66	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution consults the Directorates of the Council to confirm for Iceland the decision made by the European Commission from 25 October 2019 on a change in IX. Annex to the EEA Convention of 2 May 1992 and enter the contract of Council Regulation and Council 2018/1717 from 14 November 2018 on a review of Regulation No. 1093/2010 as regards the site of the European banking facility. The Regulation includes a change in EU Regulation No. 1093/2010, for the establishment of the European Banking Agency (EUBA). The type contains only one change, i.e. to EBA headquarters moving from London to Paris. The reason for this change is Britain's exit from the European Union on January 31, 2020. The implementation of the Regulation in Iceland requires adjustment of law No. 24/2017, on a European financial surveillance system. I propose, a respectable president, that the end of this discussion will be alluded to this proposal. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u67	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 302/2019 of December 13, 2019, of the conversion of V. Annex V, of the liberty of workers for transport, and of the review 31, of cooperation in special areas outside of qualification of four aspects of freedom, to the EEA Convention of 2 May 1992, and of the contract of the Council Regulation and of the Council of 2016/59 from 13 April 2016 on European Job Network, access to mobility and further integration of labour market services, and change of Regulations No. 492/2011 and No. 1296/2013. In addition, seven secondary types, the Commission's work programme, as listed by 2,◯8, are proposed. The number of the synonyms, shall be cut into the contract. The Council and Council No. 2016/589 is a new global EURES Regulation which also includes changes in Regulation No. 492/2011 and No. 1296/2013. EURES is a cooperation project on the public employment services in the EEA sector, fired by the European Commission. The aim is to make it easier for working people to move between EEA countries. EURES staff contact the jobseekers and jobseekers. Iceland is involved in the EEA contract. These are the new EURES Jobs and a job database and the jobseekers who are fired in the EU. The Regulation deals with the European Jobs Network, the labour market access to services due to mobility and further integration of labour markets. It includes the EURES Jobs Service run in the EU and a job vacancy information database and jobseekers' database. The establishment of the Regulation calls for legal adjustments. The Commission's decision to conduct, as agreed by a ◯8. the panels of the Parliamentary decrees are derived from the above regulations and do not require any legal adjustments. Induction of Regulation No. 2016/589, Iceland, calls for changes in law No. 105/2014, of the free employment and home-to-house labour people within the European Economic Area. On the basis of that law, the Council and Council Regulation was No. 492/2011 of 5 April 2011, of the free transport of employees within the Union, implemented and published as a package. Therefore, this package leaflet will need to be updated by the changes in Regulation No. 2016/589 is recommended. Other measures will be taken to clear up the Regulation under law No. 55/2006, about labour market operations, and is currently working at the Department of Social Affairs to see if the regulations of the Regulation require material changes in that law. A respectable president. I suggest that this discussion be terminated if the proposal is referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u68	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 165/209 change in IX Annex to the EEA Convention on May 2, 1992, and enter the Convention Directive of the European Parliament and Council 2015/236 of 25 November 2015 for the financial services of the internal market. This directive includes a new cover of payment services adopted by 2007/64/EC Directives on internal labour services. The new directive is even aims to facilitate innovation in the area of payment, such as by network and cell pay, promoting competition for the market payment services, and ensuring the safety of consumers. The directive will be implemented by new overall payment services covering law no. 120/2011, payment services, off-limits. Following the implementation of new legislation on payment services, Iceland's Navy will set up rules for further implementation, which will introduce the secondary types of pay-off services. I propose, a respectable president, that the end of this discussion will be alluded to this proposal. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u69	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize the Iceland State Service Act, No. 39/1971, with subsequent changes. Since my accepting the office of foreign ministers, I have stressed reform, policy, and practicality for the future. The first action included an order of a control team that suggested a total of 151 proposals for change in work environment, policy plans, and funding of the important work of the foreign service. One suggestion of that report was a review of the law on foreign service. This bill, therefore, is the result of the work and policy development that has existed since 2017, but instead of an overall review, certain aspects of foreign organisation legislation are taken into account and proposed to change them. Within the foreign service, a strong group of people and directors work in the foreign service, much of which are from a group of embassies who move to work, either at the office or at the Ministry Department's headquarters. Those serving as ambassadors have most often dedicated their career to foreign service and have progressed to the office of ambassadors. However, there have been some reports that over the years ambassadors have been appointed ambassadors of effective political and commercial organizations that have developed links, knowledge and reputations in the world field and can be a valuable addition to international interest care for Iceland. The current state-of-the-art laws give the group's stewards, in effect, completely free hands by order of ambassadors, provided that they meet the minimum minimum required by government officials. The office is an exception to advertising, no special qualifications are specified, and the fact is, during the past few years, the number of emissaries has increased steadily, so that when I accepted as foreign ministers, there were 40. Some have since retired, but for three years no new ambassadors have been appointed to office. When it is sought to assess the experience in the current requirement for the administration of foreign workers and to draw conclusions from it, it seems that there may be reasons for taking some steps further than at present to conform the rules of state - service employees in general but other aspects of the state service must be called to legal procedures for it to differ from local regulations. The changes taken by the bill aim to provide an ideal balance in these areas so that a more successful framework of the human foreign service can be established, i.e. the setting to attract qualified personnel to the foreign service, which are normally progressing and who have adequate vision so that special knowledge and knowledge will become the most useful. The main changes this bill suggests are four. First, a number of ambassadors are covered at any given time, so that according to the number of ambassadors, a fixed multiple of the number of emissaries is arranged. Based on the fact that they will be no more than a number of e - mail offices plus a fifth, which would be 1.2 ambassadors according to the emissary. An increase or decrease in the number of emissaries will always be done by consultation with the Allied Foreign Affairs Committee. Today there are 25 emissaries, so the criteria would be to a maximum of 30 ambassadors, who are today at 36 C.E. It is reason to have a specific space here, since the foreign council managers usually come to most of the number of ambassadors. Second, such positions would apply to advertising requirements and qualifications, such as those of other officials. The bill expects no one to accept the public office of ambassadors except for the exception of advertisements and qualifications, such as any other government office. The basic requirements are university testing and experience with international and foreign matters, and as indicated by the bill it is important to consider the progress requirements already made in the foreign service. This will help ensure that, at this point, powerful individuals, who would normally come from a series of the most qualified personnel of the foreign service, will ensure that experience, knowledge, and skills that they have taken over the process will become the core of these managers. Third, the ambassador's office will be granted temporary entitlement to special ambassadors for a maximum of five years. The primary objective of such systems is to activate the valuables that may include expertise, experience, and relationships established by relevant individuals in other fields, whether political, cultural, or commercial life, in order to care for limited international projects for Iceland's interests. In this way, the current source will be unlimited grammatical limits. To this end, a minister would continue to be allowed to look beyond the order of the permanent personnel of the foreign service by individuals for special jobs and for the time being set aside. Such orders would not be extending, and the person would not move to other jobs and tasks but would not have been established. The number of those who can temporarily serve is limited, taking into account the number of emissaries and the number of public ambassadors in each office. This would ensure that the majority of ambassadors would be placed in accordance with local rules after the advertisement and application procedure. The fourth major change is that with the bill the Minister can temporarily post as ambassador to those who now represent the office of the Ministry. This includes a number of experienced and strong employees who are middle managers within the foreign service and who have experience and knowledge that is useful in managing and ruling the Ministry. Similarly, a minister will be allowed to transfer the council agents to the office office office office office office office, which was authorized while representatives had the office of officials. This allows for the greater use of the powers of this group and for a career without the appearance of a personal order in the ambassador's office. Because of a combination of employees in the position of emissaries and historical sex halls within the foreign service for decades, this change greatly increases the potential for women to progress and take over the office and manage offices within the foreign service. Other changes recommended by the bill are in line with the terms and status of those who already have positions within the foreign service. Mr. President. In short, I would like to mention just how these topics are handled in our neighboring countries. The Norwegian countries actually have their own structure and organization in their foreign service. Of course, there is a much larger and more extensive operation than Iceland does. In Finland it is e.g. A president who appoints ambassadors and directors of the emissaries, while in other parts of the north, is the general authority in the hands of foreign ministers. In other words, the principle in all parts of the North countries is that the posts of ambassadors are advertised, either within foreign service or in general. All foreign services have detailed rules on requirements, priorities, organization and human resources, either in the form of regulations, regulations, or manuals. So is the largest part of the foreign service here, but up to now the ambassador's office and order in them that the form exists outside this framework, while ambassadors are generally advertised elsewhere in the North countries, and the principle is that they are appointed to serve as permanent employees who have dedicated their careers in foreign service. But that does not mean that there are exceptions. Examples include, for example, of former politicians who have gone to ambassadorship within the Swedish system. In Norway, former politicians are often in the role of ambassadors or couriers for special international projects, and so on. It may well be noted that a minister is suggesting to limit his own authority to the highest official positions in the foreign service. It's bigger than that. It has to do with special ministers, privileges of authority in individual terms. An organized framework for foreign service, greater professionality, demand, and transparency strengthens us as a community, reducing suspicion. At the High Council, we set out boundaries, regulations, and frames and expect ourselves and others with the legislation that we approve. This adjustment I suggest is part of the overall picture. A respectable president. Finally, in short, I want to explain the process of consultation, indication and comments that have been presented on the bill before it was formally placed before the Council. Within the Ministry, open conferences, suggestions, and ideas were introduced, and then all employees were given the opportunity to have a conversation that required it. The bill then opened an open discussion with the government, where two comments were received. I also met with the State Department at her request and reviewed key elements of the bill films before it was submitted to the General Assembly. This in itself is unusual, but I saw it as an important step to prepare this discussion well and especially to speed up treatment and its management at the right time. The Foreign Affairs Commission will follow. Comments received in consultations that are attributed to the bill contain a number of excellent tips that some made in consultation with employees. One of the reviews even contains the other. Welcome administries and warnings and oppositions to any other factors, e.g. the number of temporary ambassadors and warrants for their orders, felt the need to rather legalize the qualifications and other matters. The second report reviews a number of factors in general, including the need for these changes in the law, of the different categories of ambassadors who would arise after change and the views described that the bill should preferably be retracted and reviewed. These are certainly indications that were followed by the 2017 report, but after careful consideration, the route here is chosen and the overall review will be stored for a better time. It has been demonstrated in the past few weeks and months how precious it is to have experienced and powerful men living in the foreign service, which has the flexibility and power to cope with unforeseen events and to direct energy on the most urgent tasks. It is the objective of these changes to create a successful framework for the humanised foreign service by moving the system to reach what is normally achieved without affecting the special status of the ministry and the stability and stability that are so important in its work. At the same time, the legal rampart is explained, an order in the office of the ambassador, and the flexibility required to make an ongoing application of each individual's valuable experience and knowledge. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Foreign Affairs and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u70	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister of the Foreign Minister, Þór Þórðarson, for his advance, and I'm glad that this time he should make an announcement of the ambassador's positions, I find it a very pleasant development. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to what might be called annuity from this obligatory duty, which is being implemented regarding the order of ambassadors turning to 2 mgr. Section 4. The bill. It says, by permission of the President: In addition, a minister may temporarily appoint an ambassador for up to five years in order to preside over a certain emissary or perform the role of a special ambassador. The minister defines the role and authority of the ambassador according to this paragraph in an address letter, and he will not be transferred to another office. Following the command given to this paragraph, it will drop without possible extension. My first question turns to what will happen afterward. The order falls, but is the gun closed for applying for the same situation as the one with experience and thus being the most qualified in office? How exactly is that to be thought of? There's a minister of the order, and without advertising, and it says it's not going to be extended. But is there nothing that would prevent the person from applying promptly for a job after that of the foreign service? Let's start with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and the verbal input and a good question. The answer to the question is simply this: This form is expected to mean that the subject would be up to a maximum of five years in a job, so, like everyone else, could apply for the vacancies that are available, whether it is an ambassador's position or otherwise. This is the result when someone considers how best to have the setting that I think is desirable for these positions. Briefly answer a question. The senator is: Of course, a person, like all other subjects, could apply for an ambassador's position.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u72	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. But only on this same article. It says here, as I explained earlier, that the minister will define the role and authority of the ambassador according to this paragraph in a letter of speech. I pondered the objective behind this: Is it, e.g. being thinking of appointing ambassadors for a state, but that a minister might somehow leave what ambassadors would do in general about this with a letter of recommendation? Then I mean that some ambassadors usually do certain jobs, and that's defined in some way. In this way, however, a minister may be able to do more with precise work, and I wondered, " What is the point? ' This law is intended to apply to those who are temporarily appointed as normal ambassadors somewhere, e.g. in Washington? Could the same person still receive a letter from a minister in which he might be limited to a tighter degree than are the emissary? What is the purpose of keeping the monasteries in there on this definition and delinquency? How's the top? A minister realizes that this law is useful outside the traditional ambassador's work? It speaks of a special ambassador. What role do we have in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. There's no thought at all behind this, and it's interesting to why. A senator sees it out by looking at the text, that things will be different than if an ambassador was assigned and available, as it is called, that it would be in a different way than in general. It's not the thought behind this. Hv. A senator referred to the expression "a special ambassador, " and it is something that has been used only in foreign service but not much, more used in other lands. Time and again, people who have not been in the foreign service but who have some experience that can be used in special matters, as the name indicates. Human activities can then be carried out internationally, often within the international institutions by contracts there, in order to follow up on certain aspects of health care, for example. It always has to be defined. You can't just send some special ambassador and say to him: "You're a special eagle, and you're doing well. The purpose and purpose of such a system and what the individual should do must always be determined. I mention this in particular because I know examples of special ambassadors who have had experience and knowledge of health matters. Of course, we have much international cooperation there, and it is also wise for us to make good use of those active workers, but they must always be defined according to nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u74	V.E.G. President. It's interesting to see when the senators and ministers try to meet here, they do a certain dance in order to maintain the order of 2 meters. [[Up front.]] V.E.G. The minister did so very well. The bill we talk about is not much, not a lot of articles, but for many things very interesting. There are some changes that can be made with all sorts of opinions, of course. I can see right away that there's a certain tone in the bill that I agree in some ways, some of which disagree. I agree that it is very good to clarify and update laws and rules on foreign service, to bring the law to the present time, even to wonder if the role is clear enough, etc. On the other hand, I have a lot of warning and I need to be sold a little better that the changes that come e.g. Cannot open file %1 for %2. ... isnecessary. I realize, after having gotten a little closer to this, that there are many things that can be properly criticized in the foreign service and other factors based on misunderstandings, which are very understandable for a long time because this service that is so important to us has been completely closed. Not everyone is aware of the work being done there. In the latter century, we have tried to emphasize the importance of opening up and explaining the activities that are being carried out. Recently, there was information from the Ministry that there had been a number of hundreds of queries in this case of Covid all that civil service or the Ministry had to be resolved. All of this should help the people to appreciate more fully the value of this service. I've admitted that before you started thinking a lot about this, you had some firm opinions about foreign service, maybe you didn't quite understand it. I feel like today we're putting too much money into foreign affairs. I think our foreign service needs more money, we need to strengthen it. We need to strengthen our presence out in the great world precisely because we are so small, just because we are a tiny, tiny nation that needs to be able to share in the international realm in order to care primarily for our interests. I'm only concerned that this bill will reduce their potential. I feel like this is making a little bit of a release at the foreign service. I'm warning this because, of course, it's going to go over with the Committee, but reading through it just makes that feeling come up. I agree with the fact that foreign services should be mixed. There is a core that needs to be appointed to the loyal and good officials who gain prominence within their foreign service, excellent people, in fact, few who care for our interests worldwide, mixed with other business associates, for example, who have good experience in this regard. By doing so, we receive a group composed of people with certain educational qualifications, abilities, relationships, and the like. I'm not going to go deeper into it. I don't think it's wrong to watch any number of that, because in my mind, it doesn't matter if there's a group of 30 people, 35, 40 or 45, or whatever it is. If it's an assignment for that group, it doesn't matter how big it is, it doesn't matter. If we have a manpower in which some title prevents -- which I have, in fact, no experience with, I haven't fired myself on it -- well, of course, there's something else to do, because, of course, people are supposed to win what they're told to do. I don't believe that this situation has come up, but I'm just saying this to stress that I don't think it matters how much this number should be. There is no huge additional cost of having the title, the cost is mainly when you go outside, and we add to all the other items. But I'm not going to rule out the fact that there's a way to explain the matter to the Foreign Affairs Committee so that my opinion will change or that I'm wrong. I'm often wrong, I'm willing to admit it. The viola that's in the system right now is an option, that I think. It is possible to be able to move, be able to have and even move people, let's say that someone's been in one place for three, four years, and then they can be reassigned to another place and secure that good employee for another five years. As I understand this case, it'll stop them from doing that. I also find a fault that if you have a good person who has applied for a job in this case, for example, or has been appointed on other grounds and found to be great at work, the job cannot be extended without the person applying for it again. There are these things that I'm going to figure out better. But I know that a minister is doing well, and I'm not making this matter lightly. There is good reason to examine foreign service as well as anything else we have in our system regularly. One minister has worked hard to do so. I'm not gonna argue with that. But we may have different views and opinions about what is best in all of this. Then I have to come in on one thing. I take my chances, hoping that I won't insult anyone when I say that the report and the reasoning support of the main element of the bill are not quite strong enough. Here is where we are trying to explain that during recent years, the number of emissaries has increased greatly by permission of a president: It cannot be overlooked that this project, and the possibility of not advertising the ambassador's office unoccupied for an application under the cover of current law [...] has led to a significant increase in recent decades. I can't get this to work. The number of ambassadors has increased naturally because the ministers responsible for the appointment of ambassadors and for raising the number of ambassadors have been responsible. There is no reason why, except that the minister, the one standing here, may have had some experience with this, has felt the need to do so. There may have to be some fences, and that's one of the main elements of this bill, but we're going over it to the State Department. I think it's very important, too, that the progress of the Ministry is guaranteed. Like many in the administrative system, there are vast numbers of people who can be even better active than they are today but who need to be able to have a certain success in the system. It is a fact, and I reiterate that it is the fact, that in some cases it is of any kind that is in a particular place, i.e. What title it bears and what it bears, in certain cases, so we also need to look at the bigger picture. We are to change and improve when necessary and when necessary, but we are careful to step to the earth. I reiterate what I said earlier that we need a good and strong foreign service. We need a mixed group, we need flexibility. We must keep firm, conservative in our foreign service, it's important, and that my mind knows this crowd isn't everything. Finally, I look forward to dealing with this matter on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for good advice. I think we're discussing these matters to consider ourselves and to see if there's anything we can do to improve or if there's something that doesn't make sense. I like what you're doing. A senator will come up with a perfunctory statement and express his opinion, for he has a state of urgency. A senator of great experience in these matters, as we all know. I don't agree that this means that it's gonna get rid of. I think this would put things in a clearer form. I think it's good for everyone. I had, for example, heard it in other fields of service and found it rather obvious, that, when there are more than 200 diplomats, we can say, impressive employees, and 40 ambassadors, that's a bit much. Once an ambassador has been appointed, as the arrangement is now, the corresponding ambassador will continue. I don't think we'd want to see 100, 200 ambassadors, I think we'd agree on that. But you can always say that you can get the person on some project. I don't think it's a good service development, and it's better discussed in a talk afterward. At least I'd like to say that. A senator is not the only one who has brought up criticism that it would be unwise to have an arrangement so that if a certain person in charge of five years does well, he must not continue. That view has been heard, and I think that's why. The committee should review it like other aspects of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u76	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for answering. In itself, there is nothing special that needs to be answered. I don't want to put it that this case is come back or something like that, because there are certain things out there that are positive. But I wondered, " Is all the changes really for the long term? ' It's just something we have to cross.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Sveinsson Sólnson for his speech. I was just trying to understand. A senator, according to his criticism of Article 4. The bill, what his attitude is about what I think is the most positive change in this bill, which is setting up an advertisement for ambassador's office. So I wanted to ask you why. A senator would consider it an improvement that it is generally obliged to advertise the ambassador's office according to the general rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u78	V.E.G. President. I've spent a lot of time doing this, and I was thinking about it quite a lot in my time when I was working at it. No, I don't agree that it should be a general rule. I'm not going to rule it out, though, that it can be shown to me that it's wise. Advertising these jobs, which, of course, depends on how and what demands are made and what else, can even prevent employees in the Ministry, who have a lot to offer, and they realize that they can become an excellent foreign speaker, a lower standard for external employees who pick up certain boxes that the person does not. This service is very special, and it is important for me to consider many aspects of it. So far, huh? A senator, I'll say, "No, but I'm not going to rule out anything." A senator and others can change my view.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u79	A respectable president. I don't see how commercial advertising prevents a minister from choosing the most qualified candidate for the job. If I should argue why it is important for me to advertise an ambassador's office, it is because it has long been a suspicion that this office has been used in political horse trades. Advertising these positions leads to growing confidence in the way they are handled. My main argument for this is to eliminate suspicion in terms of how such positions are appointed. General recruitment procedures include that the State is obliged to hire the most qualified person in the job, and that is whether there is an external person or a member of the Ministry. If everyone has equal opportunities to apply, that's natural too, everyone, even the most successful people as minister was just not aware of the time it was decided to put on ambassadorships, the opportunity to apply. At any rate, they are informed that this situation is available, which is not always the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u80	A respectable president. There may be a way to find out, some way in between, let's not rule it out. I'd like to think about it a little bit: such a position is advertised, and it's a competition between two parties. One may have spent 15 years in the foreign service, and the other may never have had anything to do with such things, perhaps with the right education and the like. If a box is checked, it is someone who comes from outside the box with a better result, but he may be completely inexperienced from the job he is supposed to take. Is he more qualified than a person who may be less educated in a field or something? At least we need to think carefully about this selection process, what requirements are made, I'd say. But if there's any way I can prove that there's any way I can guarantee this, I'd say we need to look into it. But I don't think today's arrangement is bad about the staff. However, you may wonder, " Is there any way that we should be aware that this is possible so that we can allow ourselves to be made available in some way or something like that?'Let nothing rule it out. At least I don't have any secrets about this, I completely agree with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u81	A respectable president. First, I want to express my joy in that I am standing now to place the general obligation of the Minister to advertise the work of the ambassador and return of that condition. We've been expecting it long, and we're glad it's coming, hopefully, in law now, that this bill is under law. It's basically because of that, at least In my opinion, there is a moral hazard against the order of a minister to use such important and honorable positions in some form of political horse weddings and political favors. This makes me feel unnecessary to the foreign service, unnecessary and uncomfortable, because, of course, these jobs have to be available to everyone for application. There should be no doubt as to the viewpoint behind the order of a minister in such significant positions. These are our representatives from foreign lands. Because they have an enormously important work, I feel very important that when these jobs are ordered or filled, it is very important to do very well. A respectable president. I spoke to the highest. Minister already on temporary orders excluded from advertising. I'd like to talk about it for a minute. I'm not declaring it right here and now I'm against this release. I heard it coming in the answers from the highest. Ministers that there may be perplexing reasons to follow this course. But I still find it crystal in the logic of this article, which has yet been unsuccessful in such commands, i.e. that it is permitted to deviate from the above rule of advertising to appoint persons with political or professional experience for up to five years. That in itself is a understandable view. However, the very thing is to appoint people as ambassadors who have made the park famous in politics, the things that have given rise to suspicion around an ambassador's order because positions are not advertised and there is no basis for what is behind the viewpoint or whether any political horse trade has placed the party in office, not that the person is the most qualified for the job. I think it's sobering and that's what I think. The Foreign Affairs Committee should carefully and thoroughly review this, whether or not there may be any further transparency issues around that order, whether they follow some sort of logic support, or something else to build confidence in these important organizations. But in other respects, I feel that the bill is a major improvement and is happy that it is here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u82	A respectable president. I want to thank you. Councilmen. They both came along with me in my opinion of the subject and of good suggestions, and I hope and I know, and I trust that the discussion of this matter will remain in that direction. I'm just gonna let me roll it up like that. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir spoke of, as well as from her conversations and arguments. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi, son of Sveinsson, is something that I think is all right to talk about. It's how we should get the most qualified person in the ministry. Hv. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson referred to the arrangement that has not yet been discussed, and I think we need to discuss, and then I'm not referring specifically to these matters, but to positions in general. The arrangement has been established as it is now when we are in charge of the government, because we live in the human world, and there is nothing perfect, that the production of advertising sometimes results in a small selection. Although qualified individuals apply, because of the introduction of the advertisement, it is not possible to select the most qualified person. This applies not only to politicians, Ministers but only within the public general condition of the law that is now. I think people should discuss it honestly and as it is. Life is not an excel document, and we can never generate formulas for how to perform such a procedure. recruitment, whether within the foreign service or anywhere else. This is a challenge, and I think that successful progress was a great deal of work in this preparation, making things more productive and professional, but also more flexible, which I think are also important. Of course, we have a very small number of foreign services, and all the ambassadors' positions, all orders, from the first ambassador to the last appointed, are political. If a minister orders an ambassador in the present arrangement, it's a political order. It doesn't matter if there is a person in the foreign service. I don't think I'm trying to reveal any secret when I say that even if it's in a different environment than the political debate, it's not that all orders within the foreign service are unconcerned or familiar. We need to keep that in mind when discussing these matters. Like what? paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir had come up with a suspicion, let's just say right now. When persons e.g. Nationalized and other than foreign services come in there, at times it has been controversial. But it is not as if there is another arrangement that is completely undisputed and beyond all doubt, and a country has an arrangement so that it can truthfully say that it can say that there is always the fittest individual, in this case, in the position of ambassadors. That's not the way life is. I find, however, that it is possible, not to discuss here, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that now we have a progressive approach within the foreign service that I think is quite nice and that makes it possible for a person to work in the office of an emissary. I think it's an option for the foreign service to have such individuals in the ambassador's position as well as to direct things inside the Ministry. I also think it's possible if the person goes to any mail and is ambassador, and when he comes back, he goes back to the position he was in. Let us also bear in mind that most people are so fortunate to be able to work in their 70's, and there is a natural lot of good people who may be nowhere near 70 years of age when they are placed in a position and, as the arrangement is now, will remain in that position all the time until then. It is rarely written, and at least no one knows whether a person who is exceptionally well qualified to perform certain tasks today will be left to him in 10 to20 years, even 30 years. Of course, no one knows. I think it's good for everyone, especially the employees, to have more flexibility and mobility in the public. In fact, I believe that no one who's in a middle manager position or above should be in the same place for more than eight years. I think it's very good of the arrangement, and then I'm not just talking about foreign service, but in general, that men go between themselves. I think it's a good culture for everyone. If this bill is approved, it will ensure a much greater flexibility than today, as well as more transparency. Hv. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir was also talking about temporary orders to five years old, and she put a question mark to it. Of course, there is no measuring line on this. This is more how we appreciate it. I don't think it's right to argue, and, in fact, think it's the opposite, but that's the way it is with those who have been called for service e.g. as ambassadors outside foreign services to find their experience in the field ministry. Even if we were to make a big contribution to the foreign service, it will always be small in comparison with what happens elsewhere, and it is good to have people in other places with other experience. Here is the subject, and I mentioned it in my introduction, e.g. A network that is often underestimated, so to speak. There is no doubt that when we are talking about caring for our interests, it is very important to have such individuals. I'm not saying that those who are in the foreign service can't have a good network in this world, that's, of course, a long way from, I'm not saying that. But it's good to get people who are good at building networks, and I don't talk about people who have a good network when they're working. This is exactly the same from abroad as in Iceland, it is important to have a good network if you are going to be successful in such jobs. There is no doubt that individuals who are willing to serve in a foreign service that ambassadors are paid to do so on grounds other than their temporary efforts. Hv. A senator drew attention to the very important things are special ambassadors, which I believe are underappreciated places and even too little on us. The same is true. There are many of these, and we know that Iceland has been very successful, so we take some examples, on foreign ground, and still have a keen interest in national and national interests. It would not be good if we were to rule out making such an ambassador. I don't think that would be a bad decision, and I don't think it would help to strengthen foreign foreign service or foreign interests. I don't think there's anything that was especially directed to me, but of course we're going to continue this discussion. I'd like to finally thank both of them again. Councilmen who brought up these discussions. I thought their inputs were both demeaning and good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u83	Mr. President. Here's where we'll talk to a bill of the highest order. Minister of Justice on changing foreign law. And it has to be said from the heart that feeling sad and sad really makes me feel sad. Minister of Justice will present this bill, a bill that is virtually unchanged from the bill of two former Justice Ministers, please. paritaprevir It's sailing on. Andersen, and the highest. Present minister of tourism, industry, and innovation, Þórdís Kolbrún Gylfadóttir R. Gordrad. And what is so urgent about this bill that it is laid almost unchanged on the side of the highest. Minister of Justice for the third time? It is not to establish a change in the law of foreigners with the primary objective of strengthening the rights of children to escape or to ensure that family unity will be carried out by real and greater humanity and empathy, or that this is being proclaimed by the highest degree. The Minister of Justice to amputate to form dating on the teeth and on the bones of young people. Or even there is an announcement from the highest level. Minister of Justice that Iceland intends to welcome more escorted children to escape as a government response to Covid-19? No. Here's a bill that has it even. to guide further to the place of the Order of Dublin, as the bill's report says, on the leave of presidents: Therefore, the TV shows that the Daffen Order is to be used when possible and that the decision of the Foreign Institute on these matters is automatically charged with the charges of foreigners. Then there is reason to disappear that applications of individuals who have already received international protection are taken for material treatment on the basis of the exception of 2 mg. 36 st. for special relationships and special considerations. This is in place of the selective regulations that we have had, reimburse people who have been given positions of takers in other countries, but who do not see that their living conditions in those countries are improving, that their living conditions are even threatened in those countries, and therefore they seek our welcome here on land. Here we are also doing resurgences of certain groups that look to us for international protection almost automatic. It's not good, really. The bill, for example, is preventing the peripheral issues now taken for physical treatment. If this is where it comes, for example. A family with protection in Greece, a child with serious heart defects, is not permitted to take such a matter for physical treatment, even if a family seeking us with a protection status has a child who needs medical care, if a woman is pregnant and almost near birth, or if children are in a more delicate position and have been rooted in an Icelandic school system. The only effort to change this matter from previous cases of the former legal advisers of the Independence Party is to demand a court order. Mr. President. There is just not enough change in the past so that the person standing here can support this case, which is the authority to handle matters for the material treatment so as not to be present. As vice president of the European Parliament's refugee committee, I find it particularly sad to witness that the Icelandic government is in the time of Covid-19 trying to look for any means of refusing people's application of international protection in this country and simply turning it back. This is a search for ways to deny the application for international protection faster, looking for ways to be established by law to guide people away. Like entering the law of Regulation No. 775/2017, which was set to improve efficiency in clearly unfounded applications and to bring them into special lawsuits, a priority treatment for obviously unrecognised applications, which should shorten the duration of the treatment. It should be passed here in law because the Regulation was not considered to have sufficiently corrected. Here is a way to speed up the treatment so that it takes less time to dismiss the person. This bill will make it legal if the government can direct people back to Greece and Hungary and Bulgaria, all of whom have been severely criticized for the bad equipment for refugees who look for them, even for refugees who have been assigned to a position of refuge. Sadly, these countries have failed to live up to the international obligation they have to care for those in the more sensitive positions of society. Mr. President. The bill we are discussing here is a tragic response to the cry of the Council of Europe and other human rights in the time of the Covid-19 pandemic, a call for the members of the Member States to accept the refugees who have come to Greece and even receive the status of refugees. Experience and experience show that Greece has by no means been able to live up to the commitment it is necessary to invite people to run into humanitarian situations. We have seen this many times in the resolutions of international institutions on the situation in Greece, on Lesbo's island, and elsewhere. You see, Greek governments have faced unprecedented challenges regarding refugees'migration. Shortly before the Covid epidemic hit Europe, thousands of people crossed the eastern border between Greece and Turkey in an illegal and orderly manner after the Turkish government told refugees to cross the border. This increased the pressure of Greece, which has faced great challenges regarding the receipt of refugees for nearly a decade. According to current Greek government data, over 80,000 traveling workers and refugees are in Greece, with over half of them located on the islands of the East Sea. In view of the seriousness of the situation, the Greek government requested that other European countries receive one of the many children fleeing from Greece. Although several European countries responded to this call. Germany's government hosted 1,000 to 1,500 refugee boys from Greece who are in a particularly delicate position. In such cases, the Finnish, French, and Portuguese governments have taken similar steps. Similarly, the European Union has announced that additional funds will be provided from the Union to Greece to help the Greek government cope with this difficult situation. It was for the Covid-19 pandemic. The Greek government itself sent a distress call because it was clear for Covid-19 that the situation of candidates for international protection and refugees in that country could not be guaranteed. They sent out a distress call themselves because they had already seen that they could not meet minimum standards for flight equipment. And how does the Iceland government respond to this appeal? Not to welcome more children who are at a refugee camp or single parents running away with children, as Finland has done, but to this bill. It is possible to say that it is contrary to the will of the public in Iceland, which has been published in various ways. You see, the public in Iceland has shown his willingness to be more humanitarian than is now being done in this country when it comes to receiving refugees; with the signing of thousands; and with protests outside the House and the Ministry of Justice. This has been done by the public in Iceland when he is offended when it comes to decisions being made to receive refugees. Why are the public's desire to be more real to people and to provide them with even greater protection and support? That there is a clear policy on what we will follow when it comes to receiving international protection from people who are looking for us. Single mothers and fathers with children who have fled unsurpassed situations with their children so far, people who suffer from illness, disability, or spiritual, long - term stress. I remind you that it is especially important to ensure the situation of children, whom the Icelandic government is, in fact, under international contracts and agreements to ensure. Sadly, though, we have seen examples that have not been true. The appeal of the public in Iceland, which we have seen so many times and experienced recently, is to show greater compassion for the refugees. And yes, I'm talking about Greece and the situation there, but this bill will also open up for the resurgence of refugees to Hungary and Bulgaria, countries who have repeatedly received serious charges and comments from international institutions over their treatment of refugees. The charges and comments have even been made. ... sothat Iceland hasnot wanted to send people there for the past two years at least which have been looking for protection in spite of the formal status of the inmates. But with this bill, change it or at least significantly open the possibility of it. Mr. President. Now, it is important that we show solidarity with one another, not to tighten our propellers or to make the rules more rigid to make sure that we can direct people on a course that is fastest looking for us under the consequences of war or any calamity or of life conditions that are in no way humane. If there's something we should learn from Covid-19, it's that international cooperation and humanitarian cohesion are necessary not only for communities to thrive, thrive and meet events but directly vital. Let us open our arms, practice greater humanity and humanity, also toward those who turn to us in the face of disasters of war and war. That is why it would have been so ideal, the monologue to present a bill or a judicial proposal to receive more people, to welcome more vulnerable ones, to lighten the loads of other European countries, who have had to take on a much greater and more serious matter when it comes to the affairs of refugees than Iceland has ever had to face. When it comes to showing solidarity in action, this would have been the perfect opportunity to do so. A recent television program on Kosks described the circumstances of refugees that have been referred from Iceland to Greece. At the end of that dramatic event, we were asked: " What course are we going to pursue here? How are we gonna do this? That's a question we've asked quite often here at the Congress Hall, and that's a question the public has also asked quite often during the past few months and years. This committee has been conducted on a review of foreigners who have hardly been functional because there is no clear will or policy or vision when it comes to the affairs of refugees or foreigners. It is time for us to stumble, to form human policies, and visions, to follow them in action, and to show international solidarity among those in the most vulnerable position.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u84	A respectable president. I'd like to come in on a few things. First of all, in terms of protection, I insist that candidates receive an individual examination, they receive an interview, and they can submit all the data they want to submit reasons for protection here, even though they have been protected elsewhere. This change, though 2 mg source. 36 st. will not achieve protection, will always be considered in this country according to the law of foreigners, and will determine whether a reimbursement would conflict with 42rd. foreign shape and 3rd pars. European Convention of Human Rights. Then, because of what. A member of the council talked a lot about unsupervised children, and I would like to mention that a large number of children who come here were especially considered and how we are able to receive them. It was evident that we would need to do better with the children who come here without an escort, who have been examined, and they have had a lot of opinions in the Ministry to make their safety more secure so that we can provide just more help. As with Germany, many countries have set high goals. It has already received only 100 children, but the goal is certainly greater. Our goal is also to do better, and we are doing much more to help more fully the unscrupulous children who come here, 22 to remind me, if we look to 2019 than we have to do, so that we support them at all steps in adapting to Icelandic society and we have a special analysis of the status of children in the global security system. I would also like to reiterate it after a talk. The senator's not changing anything about the Dublin Protocol and the fact that we have stopped reimburseing to Greece and Hungary to form because of the rules we have in foreign law. We did not send, and the decision was made quite some years ago and in that case has not changed. With regard to our policy, it is humane, we are providing people who are in need of protection, international protection. [[The president calls.]] We are thought to be doing well with those things around us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u85	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. It refers to the 42nd grade. Protecting people from being sent to a region where they are at risk of being subjected to inhuman and disrespectful treatment and pointing to 3rd degree. European Convention of Human Rights. The fact is, this article has never been used. This rule has never been applied. A very high degree of severity is required for this rule to be applied, and much more general than specific circumstances, thus turning to the general situation of decision-making countries rather than individual resources. It's good to hear if it's going to be the best. Ministers to do better in the affairs of homeless children in the pursuit of flight, for that is certainly what Iceland needs to do. All right, if there are plans to receive and obey this call from the Greek government to ask for assistance from overcrowded refugee camps on the islands of the Ey Sea, it's good to go to the top. Minister is considering that. But is it not the time to make that decision and to welcome the homeless children to flee? I also remind you of what was said in answer to a question at which time. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, if I am not mistaken, of disfellowshipping. That's where we even came from. to the point that two or three homeless children were dismissed from Iceland, between 2016 and 2019. It is simply a serious violation of international rules, and we don't want to see it, and I don't doubt that it doesn't want it to be the highest. Minister. I would like to see more decisive measures when it comes to obeying this international call. It's good to hear if she intends to receive more escorted children on the run, but I would like to see them actually. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u86	A respectable president. 42rd. is often applied, it applies to all the applicants who receive the material treatment. Hv. A senator also referred to the Senate Committee on Revision, the last committee had the title to revise the law. The committee now assigned has not the definition but the ability to look at individual issues or issues that arise, they could be changes in the alien law, and I have every reason to apply it in ways such as this. the report under the Ministry on Children's issues as a whole in the International Protection System. Hv. A senator comes back on unsupervised children, and I believe that is the most important thing for us to do well and to be ready for the big task of welcoming the escorted children before we promise much more than we can handle, and that is what is being prepared, examined, and analyzed, and how to cooperate with the Department of Social Affairs is absolutely essential. Of course, it can also be pointed out that Iceland is doing a lot about Greece's situation. We are strengthening the security system there through the EES building fund. We're not reimburseing on the basis of the Order of Dublin, as I've said many times. We've been taking over a protection case from Greece, and, of course, you can look at the measures we've had with Covid that affect 225 individuals in Dublin and protection that will be treated on the land. Among them are some 90 with protection in Greece and 40 with children. I'd say we're doing a great job, and if we were looking for other countries, we're getting both more applications by size, but we're also accepting more and giving us international protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u87	Madam President. Yeah, it's good to hear that. The minister of justice has these excellent plans to take special care of the children and that a parapolitic committee that has hardly been functioning for the entire ideal period should focus on the child's affairs to a greater degree now, as time is passing by. We've had two thirds of the season, and it's long time to take this matter more seriously. It may be nice to use this opportunity and remind you that I have two matters of the General and Education Committee that are about the rights of children on the run, on the one hand, the matter of dating, which is based on the European Council's recommendation to eliminate dates on teeth. That case hasn't had a walk in it yet. A top-of-the-art Board of Education and I've never seen any occasion to change that law at the highest level. Minister. But, of course, I encouraged her to impress them. Then it would be desirable to hear from the highest level. Minister, how to secure a situation for non-supervising children at the reception centres we have to determine that this is not expected, and has not been expected to this date to any particular particular child-specific measures, such as understanding that between adults and children and that we have seen cases come up that have just been focused on the fact that adults and children have not been separated. This has long been the power to change. But I'm glad to hear the highest. A minister stresses the issues of children, and she intends to make the work of this transverse foreign committee focus on it, and it is time to do so, and I encourage her to do something about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his record. I share grief with you. A senator over the priorities of the bill and its transmission sometimes portrays these. I'm very sorry to see that this is the focus now, that this is the priority now, that it makes it easier for us to send people back to Greece, Hungary, or other countries where the safety of refugees is truly threatened. I wanted to ask you what. A senator into one of the many reverses and outbacks I find in the report with the bill. On page 18. 9 By permission of the president, the report states: This is a part of enabling governments to quickly and safely deliver applications that generally do not lead to global protection by reducing the number of such applications. Is this the basic premise that governments have room to focus on a group of candidates who are actually in need for protection and protection? Then comes the line that I'm really wondering: It would also reduce the cost of government funds and improve the management of public funds, in line with the results of a report by the National Reexamination, National Institutes: Legal Action and Action Programme, since November 2018, available on the National Review website. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because if I didn't forget, it was exactly why. A senator who requested this administrative appointment, whether or not she would feel that this is rather distorted referendum to the messages presented in a report by the National Review Board. Was she suggesting that the Dublin Protocol be used if at all possible? Was she suggesting that it would be an effective treatment on public funds just to dismiss all these children?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u89	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Asvardsdóttir for the counter-sponsore. Yes, I also care for these costs in the bill's report. No, to answer the question right away, it was not the purpose of my report request for an assessment of the activities of the Foreign Institute that this assessment would lead to the dismissing of others. This was certainly not the purpose of this assessment but just to see what might be done to improve the work of the Foreign Institute. If we consider the time between the arrival and the completion of payment, I understand in a sense that the authorities want to shorten the time, the uncertainty of the times people live in. At the same time, you think that it is a short period of time for people to take root in Icelandic society, that children are taking root in Icelandic school systems, and that makes it more difficult to turn away from Iceland. The purpose behind this is not to help and reduce the expense of a trust fund. Rather, it is to prevent people from taking social roots and developing relationships that will make it more difficult to turn them away from shore.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u90	Madam President. I don't like the work of Government Reexamination here, and it's using it to justify what I think is a very dangerous thing to do. But that's exactly what I wanted to talk about. A senator correctly referred to this reference in efficiency. Now, I'm going to let my computer count how many times the efficiency of the bill is mentioned, but I think it's very often and considerably more often than the terms a human feeling, empathy, partnership, cooperation, responsibility. I'm willing to bet that the word efficiency is just a great winner of what the Ministry of Justice is most interested in when it comes to the affairs of refugees, that's efficiency. The efficiency is a certain artificial concept used for the assembly linework here to get people out of the country. It is to prevent people who have been protected in a different state, such as Greece. The senator did very well over the position there, get protection here. It can be dismissed in the most direct way. We're gonna go for a second. A senator both knows that it is taking away the possibility of the Foreign Institute as well as the business committee of foreigners to handle these matters that we have seen to be most prominent in the media just recently for material treatment. It's just that their ability to respond to public pleas is being removed from the law. I'm not from the fact that the purpose of the bill is to make sure it doesn't exist, just like that. A senator referred to, the time for these people to tell their story and to ask for protection from the local community, because the Ministry of Justice is not willing to protect them. This is made clear. I want to see if it's okay. A senator doesn't agree with me at the highest. The Minister of Justice clearly believes that people who have been protected in Greece do not deserve protection in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u91	Madam President. You know, about the second part of the question, right? A senator about the highest. The Minister of Justice will find it in the case of resurgence. I think it will only be best to ask the highest question. Minister-in-law. But as for the efficiency at the cost of humanity, it sounds like we're doing what we're talking about. A senator wholeheartedly agrees that there can never be the cost of humanity when it comes to the affairs of foreigners and refugees. We cannot create a system that is designed only to be efficient and to function rapidly and safely at the expense of humanity. But this is a dating decision that needs to be made. It's a political decision that needs to be made, what guide we're going to have in our view when it comes to receiving people in the most vulnerable position who are coming to us for international protection, by gaining life without war, war, life in a safe society, quiet society, peaceful society. Indeed, it is a political decision to emphasize human feelings, compassion, and protection rather than efficiency and speed up the treatment of speech. To say that, I have a certain understanding of it, as I entered the previous answer, to avoid keeping people in absolute uncertainty too long. It is really that my only reason why efficiency has something to do with these matters is to shorten this waiting period for a decision about their fate. But I think we're gonna do what. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir will heartily agree on her humanity and where she should be more important than her efficiency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u92	Madam President. The current laws on foreigners were progressive when they took effect in 2016, perhaps not as massive a leap forward in the rights of foreigners as often removed but were decisive steps in the right direction, including the right direction. The way to the humanitarian and fair treatment of those who seek refuge. The discussion around this case has completely subsided by the 11th floor. The bill and understandable, there was perhaps one of the biggest progressive steps of the day. In older foreigners, it was so that specific reasons, such as the law says, to have special ties with the land, to deal with sickness, or whatever it is today - people who had protection in another country did not fall under such circumstances as a reason to receive physical treatment. It was a well - known sense that a transnational Parliamentary committee on the revision of alien songs added to this group. It was knowingly that Ólöf Nordal, then Minister of Internal Affairs, gave the bill so before the council, and it was finished here. This was done because they are a group to be protected. These are people who have had to flee from war conditions or other disasters in their homeland. They have been protected in another country but then find that protection is of no value. These are people who suffer violence on the streets of Greece. This is a group where children are not educated, where health care is not granted. These are people running from the system they thought would protect them. When we see these stories on TV, when we see the faces of the children who will not be healed of their illness if we excommunicate them, we all think: Of course we want to take these people in, of course, because we're human beings. It's not that complicated. This knew the Parapolitan Parliamentary Committee that wrote the songs we speak about today. Why are we going to talk about 1 1 1? in the bill of the highest. Minister of this kind? Because she wants to tape it again. She wants to take this particularly vulnerable group outside the shelter approved by the council, just four or five years ago, to provide this group. She wants to take these people outside so that they will not be authorized by law to protect them, they won't be authorized for the Foreign Institute or Foreign Affairs to take a physical position on these matters unless they fail on time, they won't be authorized by the Icelandic government to listen to these people. This huge step back in the human rights of refugees is not a wet stone that I think this council wants to leave behind. To 1 1. Self: You have been told that some self-activating procedure will occur if part of this bill succeeds. I'm not sure that it will completely grasp what is going to happen. I'm sure all the room for humanity in certain kinds of cases will be wiped out. It's going to be so automatic that you can't even look at it, you just throw it a straight way into the air. Often, these are matters where children are involved. These are often families who flee a protective system that is broken in other countries, often because of their children's illness; they come to us and look to a country they know has a good education system and a good health system so that their children can have a chance in life. In 2019 42 children were classified for protection and were exonerated. There were interviews with 18 of them. If the management board does not even speak to their children, how would they measure the interests of their children? It's a group standing foot in the system today, but the bill is about to cut the floor off on top of it. The bill piece is covered in sections of great contrasting, perhaps in particular. I'd like to read the Ministry's exposé from the Red Cross of Iceland, a company that the Icelandic government would like to commend in the face of natural disasters, set up a number of relief centers, and help us maintain seawater as a community. But when it comes to the role that the government has entrusted to the Red Cross, i.e. Being a spokesman for those who seek refuge, the organization is often viewed as suspicious. The dictionary says, with permission of the president: ▪ Its organization considered the purpose of a proposed change to case 1. 2 mg. 36 st. I don't know why I'm here. What did the organization say? What exactly did the Red Cross say? What was it that was so vague? The review says: Then the Red Cross is completely unclear what reasons are behind the adjustment, in which the bill authors share some evidence of the same magnitude of change that involves an enormous reduction in the rightfulness of escape rights. What the Red Cross feels is uncertain is what is called upon by the Ministry and the Minister to contribute this bullshit. There is nothing unclear about the article that has to be solved, as the Ministry says, by making the report clearer. No, it's exactly the same in the same sentence, by permission of a president: The cross totally violates this new arrangement. It's not unclear. Why can't you listen to the Red Cross? He may not be listened to rather than to the children expelled from the country. President. Although we allow the discussion to disappear through the only 11 paragraphs. Let us not overlook the fact that the bill is all twisted and extremely dangerous. Let's not forget it. This is the problem with the arrangement that has been set up and then narrowed down a year ago. We have scoundrels in the legislature collections, such as the unfounded applications and the rest of the state, terms that are not defined by clear standards, such as is customary in many countries, and as is exactly indicated by another person's review, which is now to be taken seriously, the United Nations Refugee Organization. The Icelandic government is criticized for not being good enough. It's canceled in the bill's report. But it may be the worst thing about the bill not one law but the red thread that wraps through the report, that the Dublin Protocol should be applied when possible, or that the bill is intended to strengthen the support of the Dublin Protocol, and that it be used when possible. The authors of this bill are so eager to put it in legal evidence that it occurs four times in the report and when we are talking about applying the Dublin Protocol, we do not mean in the Icelandic praxis to send a plane to Greece to attend unsupervised children as the Finnish government did, as did the German government, in the course of Covid. No, we're talking about the fact that the Icelandic government wants to promote the method of reimburseing, exodus, to drive away as many of the trustees as we can. Four times this must be checked into a report so that the Allied will certainly be agreed with this evil treatment if this bill is to be legal. But it's not the beginning and end of everything. Iceland's not the only one on this one. What this is all about is a problem the whole world faces. The number of refugees has increased each year, and they will continue to do the predictable future. Iceland cannot build walls around the country and continue throwing people out of the country as efficient as possible, yet still say that they are involved in international work with cohesion. In this regard, Iceland's policy may rarely be as clear as it was three years ago when the then Justice Minister, Sigríður Á. Andersen, participated in a meeting of European Justice Ministers. There was a discussion, such as so often earlier, in the continent that we, who live in the north shoulder - to - shoulder with them, and help them care for refugees who are taking land in the southern part of the continent and who read the entire welfare system of Greece and Italy and other Mediterranean states. Iceland's response at that meeting was, by permission of a president: There, the secretary reported the focus of Iceland's new government on trust issues as well as Iceland's doubts about the planned changes to the Daffron Protocol, i.e. increased responsibility for the payment of shelters and the continuation of shelterers from European countries who accept most of the refuge attendances to countries that are not subject to similar pursuits. These substances have hardly been identified with a less pronounced route of action. This was the government policy of Iceland. Fortunately, ministers have been replaced, and there was a small chance that, because of the Covid-19 process, people in other countries would have been decided to stop resuscitating with protection. This decision is at the highest level. A minister has an impact on 225 individuals who receive material treatment in Iceland, who are granted the responsibility, who are naturally not some luxury, that someone will listen to them and see what happens. Is this a permanent change? Is Iceland going to attend unsupervised children to Greece like a state we would like to compare with? I wouldn't hold that for the bill we have in our hands. Only abduction was stopped because flights had stopped and the state stopped welcoming children and refugees. The bill we have here for consideration shows blackness that a meeting with refugees is not planned, that there are countries that receive most refugees and are responsible for giving that humane treatment is not available. There's no solidarity in this bill. It's wickedness.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u93	A respectable president. I may not have time to come in on a lot of things. First, I want to mention that interviews are always taken from children unless parents refuse or do not want their children to participate in an interview. Of course, there is talk, but it has been taken into account that children will not be turned against their parents into such treatment. I just wanted to mention this because it was introduced. Right away. A senator says that whatever matters to specific reasons came into the law of the House of Congress, then it is wrong. That was by law, 2 mg. 46. g. August), No. 96/2002, and brought in 2010, but not with a joint Senate committee, so it's not right to have specifically entered them. In 2010, at the time of this entry, there are only 35 candidates for international protection in Iceland and we had not previously seen the circumstances where people had previously been protected in another European country and were looking for a number of such persons. [[The president calls.]] I just wanted to mention these things, of course, could come in on a lot of other people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u94	A respectable president. Yeah, I'm reminded of something from the top answer. Minister for my interview with children who apply for asylum that interviews are not accepted unless parents allow. If so, I might ask: What other human rights do the Icelandic government allow parents to apply to their children and who is not? The children's covenant is valid for all children, regardless of their parents'view of whether the children's covenant is of value. Simply put, the child's section says that a child's opinion should be listened to in all matters that concern the child's interests. If taking refuge does not concern the child's interests specifically and substantially, what will it do? Well, I guess I've taken a father in years. A minister says that the 2010 situation has not been the same as it is today. [[The president calls.]] In the meantime, there has been a battle of Syria, and it has been fought all that time. Why don't we help the people out of there?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u95	A respectable president. Yes, that's exactly what we're supposed to do. It is the most important guide to our foreigners, to help those who are fleeing from persecution, war, and so on, they need to flee from their homeland. That is exactly how our alien legislation is, and we provide a number of people international protection every year, as we did last year. Of course, I could go through many things in a talk. A senator and when he talks about the children, I'm very open to this discussion. There are very different opinions about being guided by the interests of children, whether or not we should place that responsibility on our children, and they will lead to the interview, and that the result of their interview is a decision in the family case. This is a very big decision, and it is a decision that must be made in line with the whole children's covenant. If you read it as a whole, it is not quite clear that it is the result, but it is not in cooperation with the parents. [[The president calls.]] There's just a line I'm really open to talk about and I think it's very important that we talk. [[The president calls.]] But there are some conflicting views on this subject. I have called for opinions from the UNICEF and other parties, and there are conflicting opinions when they sit down, and these issues are discussed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I'm open to hear other viewpoints about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u96	A respectable president. Children's interests, say those who care for the interests of inmates, are generally appreciated after their parents'attitude has been taken into account in the security system. Therefore, there is little need for much discussion with children, since the interests of a child are at the root of their family life. If the government has decided that the parents are best kept in another country, the decision that your child should follow is basically a result of a bad decision. This is a discussion in which the minister says he is ready, and I hope that it will be taken with an open mind rather than in the discussion outlined in a report in which most of the comments of the refugee agency and the Red Cross were pushed aside.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u97	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. He referred to the telecommunication of the Red Cross. I put my eyes into this too, that what the Red Cross does to make serious comments is practically ignored by this report. I was impressed by the small amount of the very serious comments made by the Red Cross on the various terms of the bill by wording found in the report. It contains, for example, Talk about, with President's permission: ▪ Notes were made that it was recommended that certain decisions do not apply to regulations 18, 24 and 29. Government law and it violates the order of equality and that this violates the purpose of administrative law to be principled, minimum rules, and that it is not appropriate to reduce the protection they provide. But here, in three cases, the administrative rights are being weakened and the right of refugees to enjoy the rights there, and I want to see what happens. A senator feels that way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u98	A respectable president. I'm generally sorry for cutting down the rights of extreme groups, especially if they're as sensitive as those exposed to all kinds of violence and discrimination in the states we send them back to. Of course, the comments from the Red Cross of Iceland that the government trusts to be a spokesman for this group should have been serious. The only thing I can mention at this point is that when the General and Education Committee gets the case, they'll be listened to the Red Cross, the United Nations Refugee Organization, and all the specialized members who were not listened to the project made by the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u99	A respectable president. I can live up to my hopes. The senator that during the treatment of Congress there will be at least Listen. This refers to the weakening of the right returning refugees. Somehow, it's swept off the table. There is an added burden of evidence on refugees who are to be treated worse than anyone else. So I would like to talk mainly about other requirements, because I agree with each other. Senator, even though we're focusing on 1 1 1. and the effect it has on 36. g. There are many other principles in this bill to be especially careful. Of this, it is a requirement to remove 15 days of thought-time candidates for international protection before they can sue the decision of the National Institute of Iceland or, as they have, the time they have to decide whether to wish to sue the decision of the Foreign Institute. The Red Cross has pointed out that this time is often used to counter the fact that the Foreign Institute does not carry out its research duties and does not allow candidates to prove that they belong to e.g. particularly sensitive group. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] However, the comments of the Red Cross were taken into consideration in this report. [[The president calls.]] I don't know what you're talking about. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u100	A respectable president. We can actually spend the evening discussing the rules that are bad on the bill. [[Take it up, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it, let's do ……]] Even if we discuss some of the benefits, they can be dangerous. For example, it is good to have been listened to the United Nations Refugee Organization for Justice in Protection, so that people can seek their legal rights before being expelled from the United Nations. But this is rather an empty remedy for the situation of these people when they then have 1 1 1. Make sure that the only way they can get material conclusions in their case is if they are over 12 months' payoff at the government. So thanks to 11, there is no material foundation left. ., to protect sick people, pregnant women, and families whose education systems are rooted in them if they have protection in another country. Thanks even to one of the best articles on the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u101	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a very good speech. I think I'll save her on my computer and listen to her again later, she was very good. I'd say the reverse of the highest answer. Minister. I wish I could say yes to them a certain answer because I thought they were a total failure. I'd like to ask you what. A senator into some genius I found in 2 st. The bill and what. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Ivarsdóttir mentioned this too, I think. As a matter of fact, cases are automatically sent to the Committee on charges. It sounds like this first, and you don't think about it at all, but then when the report is read, you realize that this unpredicted genius means that instead of always waiting for the candidate to think about his rights, the case is automatically sent to the D.A. and then, after 14 days, if the person decides not to post a report or do it for any other reason, it automatically falls down. To me it looks like it's just designing the system and applicant's rights to save money for the government. [[The president calls.]] Is that clear? A senator too?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u102	Madam President. The aims of laws about foreigners are humanity and efficiency. Such goals have never been achieved with proper balance. There's always been tension between them. The article that was. One example was quoted by a senator, but there are many examples in this matter. That's how dangerous it is. It must be read to find all these examples, since efficiency works at the cost of humanity. What I'm worried about is that this bill is one of the biggest steps in streamlining any automatic transmission systems on the trustees. It's just that humanity's gone, that's all. Then this is nothing more than a law on efficient payment by foreigners without charity.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u103	A respectable president. That is my understanding as well as my feeling for this class in general, from the moment I first stepped to the council and actually longer. You see, it's nothing new, and I really lack the words to describe it accurately. I really find this kind of devious, which is really why. A senator gives just one example, since there is an improvement in the effectiveness of some of the candidates. The government's saving money is somehow helping the candidates. I wondered how long people would put up with this argument for years, over and over again, in bills that feed it, to the judiciary system, or to any such thing, to be always increasing the rights of people by experimenting with time and likes, always saying that people's rights are being protected when they are clearly being taken by rights from them. A respectable president. [[The president calls.]] I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u104	Yeah, yeah. A senator had no time. It is short when there is only one minute.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u105	A respectable president. Yes, indecision is one of the words that can be hung on this bill. It should be possible to do much better. It should be possible to write bills as a streamline-shaped system without reducing human sensitivity. It was the challenge of the people who wrote current alien laws to have efficiency and humanity together as their goal, not that they work against each other, but that they strengthen each other. Like the senator, I think the bill smells way too much because money is supposed to be saved. But it's just that human rights cost money. It is just that war costs money, and we who founded NATO are responsible for some of the disasters people are fleeing from. It's just that climate change, misunderstanding, and all the many reasons that cause people to run away costs money. [[The president calls.]] Who's going to pay? Is Iceland going to say, "I don't? [[The president calls.]] Will we be irresponsible in the society of the nations?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u106	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's story was very clear and clear. Hv. A senator served as a member of a transliterian Parliamentary committee on foreign matter, including some of them. in July 2019, the need to revise the procedure of exodus to Greece and that the committee to be monitored, including the committee, would need to be reviewed. Monitoring the development of a foreign law, would have been blunt. I'd like to know why. A senator for this lack of emotion in the Senate committee. It was political, a combination of the committee, a lack of direction, or what was really the reason for those words. A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u107	Madam President. Yeah, when you ask a big one. Now it may be time to state that my opinion is just my opinion of what was crazed at the Foreign Committee that was solved last year, but I think some of the factors have come together. First, the project was vaguely defined. The committee was to monitor the development of a foreigner and make a suggestion to change if necessary. Where were these changes to go? Can such changes be achieved among eight members of the Parliament from the same number of political parties with the same differing views of foreigners? There was no direction. It is as if during a political discussion, people gave up a common view of foreigners and extended it to a committee who had no clear authority on where to go, and the result was two wasted years in this committee. It was not so corrupt that the Minister who sat at the Ministry of Justice during the first half of this terms was strongly opposed to the work of the Committee and was not directly involved in paying her street, so this was a fearful failure for us. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u108	Madam President. Yes, it is sad to see and hear and to witness that there were two lost years that would have been useful in providing thought - provoking suggestions about what would have to be added to the foreigners if the committee had thought necessary. It is also okay to make sure that when the alien law was changed in 2016, the lawgiver's will was always to take refuge in the material treatment if the applicant was in a particularly delicate position. It was part of the contents behind the foreigners'sentence of 2016. Here's what we've got. A senator handled these matters tremendously, and I would like to hear, even though the time is short, and have his view of the rest, how he can support the committee's work, and if it takes some time to shape a real vision or whether we have lost those years in vain. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u109	A respectable president. Perhaps it is time to state that I do not serve as a member of a foreign committee. During the summer of 2019, the senator testified, I had long since proposed to the minister to put down the former committee and restart this process on a decent foundation, using an opportunity to do so several days after Sigríður Á. Andersen gave up his office. I envisioned that the government at the Ministry could be an accompaniment to some sort of change. However, it took six months to get the new committee together; it was not scheduled until October or November after I suggested this in March. So things happen slowly in this business, looks to me, and it's not far left in the election season. This procedure is something that we could fully identify as a question mark because this committee is set up in the Government Strategy Declaration, indicating that the government should have some policies, not just offer up hands when it comes to something and consider policy development to the council. [[The president calls.]] If so, we could have national government on more than foreign matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u110	A respectable president. Foreign affairs are increasing in all political discussions. They are growing in all social discussions, and the alienities are macropolitic material in the nations; refugees and people in search of protection. Here in this bill are two groups of subjects for a discussion that is relatively related, one about international protection and disfellowshipping, and the other about the professional rights of foreigners. The bill seems to remain largely unchanged from a previous bill submitted last year in terms of international protection and expulsion. It has taken some changes, as noted, but the main theme is the same. The foreign Asiatic bitch that's behind the bill is the same. The political is the same as when the bill was first dropped by two of the former Supreme Court. The judiciaries of the Independence Party. When reading the bill, you can see that the red thread is strengthening the support of the Dublin Protocol. It is requested that the support of the Regulation be supported. Another goal is to simplify the application procedure. The objective of this language is to improve efficiency, i.e. to shorten the treatment period in situations where you have received international protection in another country. The figure we see over and over in this report, which is the red thread, is: increased efficiency, shorter duration of treatment, and stronger support of the Dublin Protocol. It is sometimes interesting when you are searching for a legal procedure to study the report. An article with a bill is often like a mirror on the law, shows what the law is, what the law looks like, and what it means. It tells the story and the purpose behind the law and the purpose of the law. When we read this report and ask what we mean by a simpler procedure, what more efficient lawsuit means to those who have been protected in another state, we can see the answers. It is in the light that the bill raises questions, and I have to admit that it is also a major concern. We are aware that there are tens of millions of people running today. We are aware of this reality. Yet, it is always the stories of the individuals who find their way into the media that touch us most. It may be that way in life, the numbers tell us less than stories about people. The report has been of tragic reports by people, adults and children, who attend shelters in Iceland and the decisions made by the National Institute of Iceland. The prisoner has been there, at what the Foreign Institute is doing, but the responsibility is, of course, the government. Organizations enforce government laws and policies. That's where the focus is supposed to be. When reading the report on the simpler and more efficient treatments of international protection, the question arises: Is there a further extension of stories as we are sadly aware of the media, e.g. The story of the Syrian woman who worked at the University of Vine Park and was referred to Greece because she had previously received international protection. Greece is thought to be a secure land for refugees. I took this story to myself because I know it, in it my daughters have walked, and that's why it's a story in my memory. According to a report at the Ml.is, the woman worked at the nursery for over six months, says Sighvatsdóttir Sahiltsdóttir, an assistant principal, who said she had reached out to the children. I think it's important to frame these little stories because they're all over the big picture. With President's permission, the assistant school principal in this interview said: ▪ She has an overwhelming presence, is enthusiastic, and worked hard to get to know the work. It was good to work with her, and I learned a lot from her. She taught her children and learned from us as well as from them. So everybody made money with her work here. She's very much missed. This was not the reason for the need to reduce the number of staff. Many play schools are needed in Reykjavík, as we parents do there. She wanted to continue working with her children, was highly valued by staff, children, and their parents. Her story is that she comes from a situation we know who is in Syria but is not coming directly to Iceland. It marks all her therapy. Sadly, this is not a story from the past, and these stories that we see quite regularly in the media are not stories from the past. They're happening this year and they happened last year, this story is from 2019. This has, of course, been the case with the discussion that leads to the attention of the situation. Of course, it is always dangerous for the discussion to light some fire, but it still sets in the situation; it is the discussion that brings attention to the circumstances, stories, and experiences. It has happened after the discussion that deadlines have been given, the results changed. There have been changes in order and people even got to stay here, just because random stories come into the media. Now it says in the bill that the Dublin Protocol should be used whenever possible. It is recommended that the changes aimed at strengthening the support of the Regulation and the judicial decision - and can be seen over and over again when the report is reviewed - be applied whenever at all possible. So I ask: Is it possible, then, that the bill is proclaiming sending people out of the country, even sending back to the countries that have been mentioned here tonight, Hungary and Bulgaria and Greece, to an even greater extent than before, only because protection has been provided there? We know that people have been sent there and, as I said before, they don't belong to any past. That's why I ask and I think we should ask ourselves why we're handling this matter, because a bill has to be examined in the context of this article: What are we saying? What is involved in improving efficiency? I can't see, when I read the report, that it's being talked about any other compensation than that the whole process is going faster than it is. I don't fully understand the words of the highest. Minister of Justice earlier on the fact that nothing will really change with this. I understand the report differently. I experience that the red thread of the bill is that the treatment is clear, that it is transparent, and it seems to me that there could be a good conclusion to the bill. But it seems to me that the politics behind the bill are also clear and transparent. The review of the General and Education Committee will likely explain this aspect further so that the reasons and goals will be somewhat clearer. I thought it would be good to hear it from the Minister of Justice in the past as to what her mind is, for example. About children who come here. But I'm putting a big question mark on the language in the report and what tool chest is in it about where to go, the bill is under law. It's simply that such a bill reflects a policy. This is politics, this is a political policy against people who are moving here for international protection. I feel that when we talk about a bill like this, it's also necessary to take steps back. This may not be something a lawyer should say, the articles need to be examined and the report considered. But we also need to pause and ask: What is the big picture here? What politics are we speaking for? What ideologies are we speaking for? What is the role of Iceland in dealing with the world's problems? What is our responsibility? What is our policy with the people who are here attending, the people that this bill is about? There I would like to see a different course, a little more ideologies, and it may be clear and transparent. I just want the politics to be different from this one. I hope that the discussion on this subject will answer the question of who the political government in the affairs of foreigners really is and will be and will establish hopes that the debate in this room and in a universal and educational committee will lead to some adjustment in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u111	A respectable president. The system we have today is for people. It's for people who are looking for protection. The share of money the Ministry of Justice receives today is about 4 billion and has increased from 220 million in the past ten years or so. It's good money. But what is the result? True, we were able to provide international protection for more than 500 people last year. That's our story. We are doing well in relation to countries around us, and this shows how successful we are in achieving as a whole. But is it acceptable to have someone to wait for a positive answer, for example? 230 days? Is that the result? What are the solutions? How would that be? A senator watching the system as a whole, if he is responsible for the system as a whole, and would have the funds? By means of this funding, we will be able to obtain this material treatment period according to the number of applications we have at any given time and every year for now. I would say that there was a huge opportunity for people from Greece to be directly involved in the work-authority regime. See what? A senator's chance? People with Greek refugees could, e.g. receive leaves on their grounds but do not need to enter our international security system and therefore may come here and have employment or other opportunities. The question of efficiency is then asked. What does that mean? This means that people who are applying for protection and who are in need of protection will get an answer more quickly and adapt to Icelandic society more quickly. That's what it means. It also means putting aside priorities in advance so that we can spend time and money giving the answer we give to the one we protect, such as the 531 individuals who received protection in 2019. [[The president calls.]] Then there is the problem. A senator entered the Dublin Protocol, that it is used very extensively by all other European countries and certainly is still the red thread of the joint European refuge system that one state is responsible for a case, although under special circumstances, as in Greece, Hungary. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] - Excuse me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u112	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen and the highest. Minister of the deadline, which is in this traffic, though, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u113	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Justice responding. I have no idea that the situation here is simple or simple, or that the solution is simple. I'm simply calling attention to the fact that this report cannot be read without the use of the tongue, for all efficiency aims in one direction. I am glad, however, that a minister of justice takes the step back and is discussing the broad lines and emphasis there. I think I can tell you from my previous job that the duration of the treatment at the state institutions is a major problem, but this does not mean we refuse to handle a case or that we decide to reduce the number of tasks. There are other tools. And then I have to say, in all this talk about protection, international protection, and when protection is available and when protection is offered in Iceland, the result will always be in accordance with this bill, that group will be greatly reduced. You can't understand the report any other way. It is sobering to think of how little the term will be protected, how few will enjoy it, and how we will go through the embezzling of the attendees. We all know stories about people coming here looking for help. Clearly, it is not people who do not fall under protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u114	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. It is my sheer hope that the group of litigators can be discussed as a whole because they must look at all its sides in order to see how we can handle it. We've been assigned a job, a great job we'd like to do well, but it's grown up amazingly in a few years, and our government's got a problem. How, then, do we want to take action? How can we improve our ministry? How do we succeed in this issue? To answer others in the past, I feel that it is effective to give them assurance and not long to be confused, whether the answer is negative or positive. I think that's one measure, that you don't have to wait here for months for an answer. That is the priorities we are considering. Hv. A senator says that the opportunity will be greatly reduced. So most people with protection get negative results today in our system. It just takes time, takes days, and the purpose is to speed up that treatment. It is wrong that few enjoy our system. It's just wrong with today's situation. I'm happy if we can talk about the whole bill and it sounds like it. A senator approaches the discussion this way and approaches the project. I don't think we're going to succeed if it's just black or white: who's good, who's bad, who's going to shut everything up, who's going to let everybody in? We have a system, a large system, with all kinds of permission, where all kinds of people come in, and we will not succeed unless we can talk about whole how we can protect those who really need it, how we can direct people where they can find other opportunities here. I think there's a huge opportunity there. I'm glad to hear it. A senator is prepared to discuss that matter in this way, as he indicated here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-06-99.u115	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the speech, she was excellent. But I'd like to ask her a few questions on one point because I know why. A senator is a lawyer, a lawyer. It is a point that the Red Cross points out in its heading to the bill, that throughout the bill, refugees who should be assured by administrative law are being weakened by the treatment rights of refugees, including government laws. in Páll Hreinsson and other sources that agree that the administrative law is a set of minimum rights and that governments cannot set rules that are weaker and that they place weaker obligations on the administrations than can be found in administrative courts unless there are very important reasons. I know a certain topic area well, since government laws are as good as excommunication, and it is already time for forced care. I don't think that's good enough justification to decommission the administrative law. But okay. At the very least, we can discuss whether or not it is justified there. However, taking back calls on refugees to increase their burden of proof at the same time as they are being reduced to prove themselves true to their case with a much shorter trial period is all points that the Red Cross points out in its review, pointing out that it violates the principle of administrative rights that the administrative law is minimal rights and that it should not be set up rules that would add less responsibility to the government. So I wanted to ask you why. A senator whether she is not sharing this vision of the Red Cross, whether it agrees with him that these provisions are to be considered in particular in the light of the administrative court.
