ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u1	The President now intends to have a vote for a variant for the privilege of taking the only part on the program, which was first distributed after April 1 and has not passed the deadline as 3 mg. Thirty-seven. Parliamentary conditions, i.e. So called a five-day rule. In addition, two nights have passed since the administration of the bill, as per mg. Thirty-seven. Congress. A vote for all these species is now under way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u2	A respectable president. I vote against giving these variants protesting to the President's practice here earlier today. I have not received an explanation from the president, I have not received any word from the presidents of the House or members of the House in the greater part of the reason why it is necessary to allow national pension funds to take further risks with the public's funds. That would have been a good reason for putting this matter on a program in this senator. Trying to slip it into a program in the shelter that we will not be given a schedule in the system we're dealing with now's people, I feel insulted and I say no, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u3	President. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Thorhl Ævarsdóttir Ahvarsdóttir. It's not that it's okay for a president who has his schedule and we don't get it - just so the people back home understand what it's like: it's a meeting and we have a schedule. The meeting is terminated, and, as you've heard here tonight, the president's invitation to a meeting immediately is terminated. Then it has been so far that the program is set up, but it is not possible for Covid to do so. Then the president goes off, without knowing what the program is, asking for all kinds of variations. There's supposed to be some waiting. He asks for variations, and he will not let anyone know, even members of the council, that this is what he intends to do. However, it is in the council that the president of the council should consult with members of the council on the program. It is in the law that he should do so. He won't, but he'll try to smuggle the case into his face when he knows it's against it. This is not acceptable, therefore, I vote against this. It's also a bad case, and the pension fund is being allowed to increase its risk in order to participate in risky tenders, i.e. This stock auction with the state responsibilities, where good money is being cast after evil. It's not a good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u4	The president will not comment on the charges he is directly charged with. The president must say, on account of the words he was directed, that there seems to be some misunderstanding regarding this matter. I think that misunderstanding became very clear at a meeting of the presidents of a council meeting just after five o'clock when this case was reviewed. It was found that there was a lack of information, even within the council, but this case had been adopted by three conferences in the Economic and Business Committee, including the U.S. Pirat's House of Congress at the council and the president was at least No suspicion that this information had not been normally received through the council, that it was being given the bill. When the president realized that not all economic and business committees were moving the case, which he knew earlier that it was coming to pass, he specifically investigated what it was like and was informed to at least Three of the representatives of the panels on the committee would not have made a comment, but they chose not to be representatives of it. Rather, the president was unaware of the possibility of a major disagreement on the subject. The case is a non-employable Covid case, closely linked to existing cases and related to the payment of the Icelanda company, as can be determined by the report of this bill from the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, which specifically refers to those matters, so, in fact, it is the follow-up of the actions immediately planned for this panel. As a result, there was no comment when the office put this matter on the program of a second meeting published on the Web site as it is currently being done. It is a misunderstanding that it has something to do with Covid that there is no more printed program here. To reduce the use of paper was an environmental decision made by the council, and members of Congress were encouraged to observe progress and study the program on the site. It is true, and under that President, people must be vigilant when each meeting takes over, but calling it a covert on the part of a president, trying to smuggle something on the program, or passing on a worse word is simply wrong, and the president does not hold it in silence. In fact, though, he has received several doses of very ecstatic comments about things that are not solidly based. The President is here just trying to manage the General Assembly meeting according to the best conscience, to communicate information, and to make good consultation with members of the House of Congress, and to be maintained, then, there was the scene where a member of the Parliament could have made it clear that a bill of this kind could be expected to be expected to become both a member of the Pirate in a financial and business committee and their council leader could have made it clear to their council that this kind of bill could be expected. That's how President looks at the situation. That's all there is to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u5	President. I'd like to correct a few things. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy specifically mentioned in the Economic and Business Committee that he was against this case. Again and again, the committee stated that her meetings were not to be settled, that it would have to be decided on the scene of the council. The President must know that. This is the same as being said about extending coastal fishing in September on a professional committee. It says, "It can't be decided here unless it's done. ' There must be a debate at the scene of the council groups, for the law also states that the president of the Generals must consult with members of the council on the program of the council. That is what has to be done, and that is not what has been done. The president who has been here for more than 30 years should know, of course, that it should be discussed with members of Congress if he intends to put a case on a schedule that is not included in this package. This is what we're worried about. The lack of a program is not for Covid, it was good to be corrected, but the program was not even online when the president was reading and running through without having told anyone, not members of the council, that this case should be scheduled for the meeting. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's not working. We need to know what we're accepting here before it's started and we need to consult with members of Congress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u6	The president has arranged three meetings with the members of Congress this week to prepare the assembly for this very day.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u7	Don't do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u8	President's talking. Praying. A senator not to interrupt. The president received no messages from a financial and business committee that he would need to take some special discussions on whether this case could be arranged. It may again be a lack of communication. If the committee thought that it would be necessary to discuss it specifically in some other area, whether a matter might have been arranged for them to receive messages. The president does not read the thoughts of people who are present at a meeting, so the message was never sent to president that something was therefore a problem taking this issue on the program. [[Up front.]] That's the fact.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u9	Why...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u10	The president asks why. A senator not to grumbling forward. He can do so when other members of Congress speak, but the president has previously said that he will not suffer pleas when making a statement or speaking by a president. Then you may begin to talk about the respect of the Generals, if not even they can be at peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u11	A respectable president. The meetings of the Economic and Business Committee were arranged for the matter to be discussed among the council groups. That was the key. We have a fine example of how the program was extended and how this was done in peace and without having to be spoken to members of the council. That was because the chairman of the committee, why. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, requested that the members of the committee seek approval from members of their council for speaking that language. It was done, allowed, shared, and time given for consultation. In this case, we found an economic and business committee meeting meeting meeting meeting members being decided that they needed to discuss the matter before it came on schedule so that we at least met. The good belief that it would be to consult with members of the council for new programs, as has been true of any other part of this council. [[The president calls.]] I don't understand why this case should be any different.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u12	The president is not in session with the Economic and Business Committee, and he doesn't know what is going on there unless he is informed about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u13	V.E.G. President. I now feel that the Piranians are taking a long walk in charges. There was some misunderstanding. There wasn't a message received to the president. Today it was shown. The matter was discussed, and everything was put on the table on how meetings were conducted today and tonight. There seems to be a lack of communication within a group of Pirates. It is the lowest thing for people to talk there. Me and the laymen know how to send a message like this, even though we're not always in the same room as you can handle, Mr. Pirantar. But that's it. That's it. Let's just get back to work here. [[To the point: This is wrong.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u14	Mr. President. I have to agree with the last speaker. Of course, there may be misunderstandings. That was discussed at a council meeting earlier. A senator named Pirata chose to go up here and have big words for the president while we were meeting where things worked out very well. It turns out it was just a misunderstanding. It was not clear who was going to deliver the invitations for the Economic and Business Committee. There was no disagreement that the matter should be on the program. It had also set up a meeting of the council classes. Earlier this week the subject was mentioned. It wasn't exactly what it would be like, whether it would be all the committees or what, but it was supposed to be on the subject. Whether it was then discussed at an economic and business committee meeting that something specific had to be taken back to the council members was obviously an invitation that was recognized today to have been misunderstood, i.e. Who was to be taken along, really? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Let us constantly argue that people are harming someone.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u15	A respectable president. I don't have anything to do with the President's conference board, but I'm sorry that this misunderstanding was there today and I'm sorry that it surprised people. Because I'm in trouble. The Economic and Business Committee is quite clear that the head of the Committee clearly indicated that it would likely have to be discussed among the presidents or members of the Parliament's panels what would be the outcome of this case on this committee, not necessarily whether the case would be discussed and the outcome would be determined. But this is Covid's business, as should everyone. It's relatively simple. We are not trying to increase the risks of the pension fund, but this is related to Icelland's stock supply, and I was referring to the fact that most of us were wanting this matter to be discussed, to take the material discussion of it at the council Hall if there were a disagreement on the matter, even though all the committees did not want to take it to a council hall. I think we can go ahead and talk about this. Then there can be a controversial discussion if a person has differing views about the matter as such.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u16	A respectable president. I have no objection to being discussed here. I didn't vote in this vote, too, because I was a little pissed off about what happened here earlier. I didn't mean to come up here and do something special about it. It is not the result of this vote on the variation or outcome of the case at the General Assembly that I have anything to say and that I would not have come up here unless I explained to a respected president how all of this occurred and on the grounds of a respectable president appreciates what he has planned for the program under these circumstances in view of what has been previously agreed on with the prefects and members of the council. I don't think the scene or the time to reason on it right now, so I'd have to jump into a lot of trouble if I was to dissect all the explanations that came from a respectable president. However, I would suggest that the committee and/or council members will be discussed because this is how you can prevent it. I just think it takes a slightly different view of what constitutes the approval of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u17	A respectable president. I said no. Then there was a meeting, and the explanation came. They were quite satisfying for me. That's why I said yes now. It was a misunderstanding. All I've done is that there's just been a misunderstanding. We need to realize that at the rate we've worked here, there can be a misunderstanding like this. He's been corrected. That's why I say it's just over.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u18	The president allows himself to quote. 6th. South, Oddný G. The Harðardóttir, who thus put it at the end of a meeting of presidents with members of Congress on the matter that this was probably a misunderstanding throughout the circle. Then we may be able to complete a discussion about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u19	Mr. President. I hereby recommend to the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee for bill to legalize the commitment of pension insurance laws and the activities of pension funds, No. 129/1997, with subsequent changes. The bill is simple in itself. In 1st. says: ▪ After the word "risk of the fund" in the number 6 a.D. 2 mg. 36 st. a The law of the law will come, or only include the right to purchase or to get a subscription's license. The bill is moved by means of and in collaboration with the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and is associated with the responsibilities and commitments proposed to the State's funds, according to Article No. 969 and 970 during the current council. In a bill - to - finance comment by 2020, as stated by the law No. 104/2020, 969th matter, comes in. ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It says that according to the Society's plans, each item is sold in the stock market, which accounts for 25% of the registration of new items. Since such subscription rights may be derived from consequences in the sense of a law on the insurance policy of pension and the work of pension funds and the ability to invest in deduction, it is important to make the adjustment required by the aforementioned stock tenders. Investment of pension funds is a market for the West. section of the Act on Life Pension Insurance and Pension Insurance. Pensions of Pension include: It is allowed to invest in deductions, which are financial gains, which are based on the change in some factors during the specified period, as per Figure 6 of 2 mg. 36 st. a law. This includes derivatives that reduce the risks of the funds. Erosion can be highly hazardous and loss of individual species may theoretically be unlimited. Investment in such delinquency is not consistent with the caution needed to keep in the investments of pensions that keep the funds of funds. However, they do not apply to all forms of deduction. The potential loss of deduction, which includes only right, but not duty, to buy on property, or to subscribe, is limited to the price paid for deduction. Thus, the potential loss of the trade is a well - known and well - defined one. Such purchases, therefore, are well compatible with the safe investment policy of pension funds. In view of this, the aforementioned conditions for a-joint number 6 are 2.mg. 36 st. a Act on the related insurance policy and the operation of pension funds, that derivatives should reduce the risk of pensions, unduly burdensome. The bill suggests that pension funds may be invested in deductions that include only rights, but not obligation, to purchase property or to subscribe to it, although they do not reduce the risks of the funds. The change thus suggests that the resources of pensions to be removed and that by doing so they will be able to expand their means of making investments. Still, the investments of pensions in deduction must meet the requirements of the VII. the section of the law, such as condition 5th. 36 st. b that pension funds are only allowed to invest in deductions that are either listed in a structured stock market or meet the requirements of modeling a pension fund to yield to the control that the UN values. It should then be possible to calculate the value of such derivatives daily in a reliable way, making sure that it is possible to sell, repair, or close such contracts on the real value of each day. In the current law, pension funds are only allowed to invest in deductions that reduce the risk of finance. To this end, there are risky contracts for growth or bankruptcy. The ensuing restrictions were designed to reduce the fortune - tellability of pension funds, as derivatives may involve high risks and heavy losses. However, the same limitations also lead to the lack of ability to own or invest in deductions that involve low and known loss of risk and any potential benefits. With the bill, the plan is to provide pension funds with a chance to gain a profit from the economic development of possessions where loss risks are limited. In some cases, having an underlying letter may involve a higher risk than having a deduction that reduces its value from the underlying letters. By opening up the potential for pension funds to produce derivatives that involve only the right to buy other property or subscription privileges, they increase their potential for having risk distribution and making money - making investment opportunities. In the outworking of the situation, a financial and business committee was contacted, as well as the members of the Ministry, members of the Federal Department, members of the National Department of Pension Services and the National Association. The National Department of Pension Funds proposed the use of the term'sorture Treaty' in the bill, as per number 2 of Figures 1. 2.g. Law on Stock Communication, No. 108/2007, allowing this to be equal to the sale and sale rights that are in accordance with the objective of the bill. There was evidence to suggest that the same rules apply to reformal bonds were closely related to subscription rights and that they should be taken away from the sources of pensions for such investments. Finally, the sources given to the bill would be more effective at 2 mg. 36 st. a The law, instead of adding a number to that number to show that 5 mg was clear. 36 st. The new sources are out of the law. It has to be admitted that within the period of time, the Commission did not earn sufficient space to prepare the bill to assess the above and to have the necessary consultations with experts and professionals. However, most of the committee's contribution to the bill is considered to be a major reason for such work to be done. Gives up the rest of the committee to consult on that job, including At the Ministry and the Bank of Iceland, at the upcoming legislature. In fact, it may be noted that when dealing with the SEC, they would be required to work at that job. Mr. President. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be passed to the 2nd. ... andtowhat. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u20	Mr. President. There are many people in the country who have heard of this assembly today and who have thought, " Déjà vu! ' This is a matter of Congress, which was employed at the Ministry of finance, but the highest. The secretary of finance tried to get a financial and business committee to present the case. It always arouses my suspicions when this is done, and I have in almost every case since I visited a council protested such an arrangement, although, in exceptional cases, I agree that it is okay when cases have been sufficiently simple and sufficiently urgent. I object most often because it is a short - range procedure, or a shortcut, to a political process and, of course, the government process, as well as to reduce the responsibility of a minister on the case and place that responsibility on the council. In this speech, I will reason that this matter is not simple and can be quite dangerous. I'm also going to argue that the case is unnecessary, i.e. It is not easy or urgent. A common rumor says that deduction is dangerous. Some simply get green bubbles at the thought and recall the destructive wounds, and they can give some convincing evidence that detriment was a fundamental factor. It's well documented. However, deliberation is not necessarily dangerous. While they are very often, it is important to keep their thinking on the matter that they are not always dangerous. In part, the danger is that there are often very complex financial initiatives that can be even more complicated. We can classify a responsible business in various ways, and the best basic category is that it can be used on the one hand for risk prevention and, on the other, for prophesying. If there is a third category, I don't know about it, and I'd love to hear about it. An example of a risk prevention is e.g. When a airline buys fuel options for fuel on a successful basis, it is possible to avoid road safety because fuel prices are rising in the future. Certainly, such a contract would be a waste of money if the price went down, which is the nature of the Law. For example, it is often a very good bet. Airlines and companies are all around the world that are doing exactly this type of business. Farmers also practice them to make sure that they can sell their products. For example, predictiveness would be a case of predictiveness. If a pension fund bought a subscription agreement to an enterprise that is failing, in their hope that the company will extend its money and its value will increase. Clearly, there is a greater risk. It's a fortune trade. It's hoping for the best. And if everything goes according to plan, there's, of course, a lot to do. When the Penitentiary Insurance Act and Pension Bank was changed in 2016, in fact, in one of the four times that they were changed that year, it was decided not to alter the limit to the disposal of pension funds that only consequences to risk management were permitted. In the economic and business committee's committee's assessment of this change of law, it says, by permission of the president: In particular, the EUROPEAN EUROPEAN PUBLICATIONS are used in risk management and prognostication. The committee does not consider the role of biofuel funds to be long-term investments to be incompatible with the forecasting process of delegating contracts. The Commission thus suggests that the price of derivatives to reduce the risk of the funds remains. Under this view some of the above wrote. Councilmen, including Brynjar the son of Níelsson and Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, who are now among the couriers, and then the highest. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter. It's interesting that the Katrín Jacob's Jakobsdóttir government now suggests, through the back door, through a financial and business committee, that the ban on fortune - making will partly be lifted. It is also intriguing. The councilmen of Brauns Níelsson and Willum Þór Thor Þórsson seem to have changed their mind in this regard and would be delighted to hear from them why. Note that this bill does not open a general forecasting process by deliberation agreements. Rather, it is only suggested that two types of derivatives be authorized beyond what is permitted today. And before we talk about them, let's note that there is no limit to the business of the pension fund today, given that they reduce the risk of living in a pension fund. That means that the only thing that's being authorized here is a business that increases the risk of the pensions. The two derivatives are prenuptials and visa rights. The prenuptial agreement is extremely simple; the parties of the contract may at some point in the future buy something, often at the specified gangs, and even with other clients. Prescription is more complicated, yet quite simple. It usually provides shareholders who already have items in an enterprise or similar rights to buy more items in the future, most often at the specified gang, in order to prevent dilution of their object, to reduce their percentage. They are, in effect, buying the right to pay in advance prices in the future in order to gain more things so that they will have the same percentage in the company, despite the increase in stocks. These forms of deduction come with two types of risk. On the one hand, the risk of money being lost is the right thing to do in a nonprofit risky business. If this is purchased at a good price, it is not necessarily a great risk, but it is indeed a risk. However, especially of the subscription rights, there is a danger that good money is thrown away after bad business ventures. That is where the plagiarism about the cost of socks, in English, by permission of Presidents, has a way of becoming a compulsive gambler, and that is the classic behavior of compulsive gamblers. Déjà vu. Let us now consider that this matter is not proposed by chance at this point. Rather, it is due directly to the expected stock tenders of Ikelanda. It expects those buying stock to get the subscription rights, which are actually a very good arrangement, especially if the current stockholders in Icelanda do not also have a signing right. Then it is only a very reasonable approach to Icellands to offer a subscription's license. All right. But this is not a specific legal bill involved in this particular stock tender. This is a general law bill that focuses on the entire business of all the country's pension funds that allow them to do more risky business with the country's mandatory service than was advisable in 2016. Now it is not particularly surprising that the pension fund is willing to do this business. There is likely a good reason that this is not necessarily such a risk, a natural risk management rule, and anything in law enough to limit the level of the risk, as it were. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason was actually talking about a minute ago. But I do not see at this point that the Council has the ability to make sure of this in just a few days. I think it's crazy to expect the Council to sign such risks without having handled the matter properly. Then I mean to get the opinion of the most skilled experts, to get more advisers than a pension fund that is generally interested in this risk and the Ministry of finance, which clearly wants to push the pensions into this particular stock tender. As a matter of fact, the Economic and Business Committee got the opinion of the Federal Intelligence Agency yesterday, and that was fine. However, I didn't find it obvious from the conversation that this was the best way to go. My feeling, from that meeting, was that this was being opened up by a lot of uncertainty. And that is simply because of the nature of the deliberation agreements. Even if they can be in their simplest form extremely harmless, if right, they can easily get out of control, as we have seen over and over again. President. The good news is there's no need for this. There is still enough time to adapt the invitation so that investors can choose whether to buy items with or without subscription rights. Granted, stocks without such rights are not as desirable, it is, but it would be easier to accept such restrictions than to change the law of the land on dogs with baloney uncertainty underneath. We've seen it before. I'm just saying, "Déjà vu." The other thing is that this bill doesn't necessarily have to open up in general business with the right to purchase and subscribe. It could be adjusted to obtain a subscription's rights, not to take advantage of them. Or maybe some other arrangement. There are many ways to solve this problem, but the point is that at this point it is not clear that this bill is necessary, it is not clear whether it is necessarily useful, but it is clear that it is about increasing the risk of pensions in the interest of certain part of the funds offered by a company in addition to a load of others, to be honest with the strange decisions of the government in this particular context. President. Naturally, the public has a limited interest in risk behavior with their pensions. We've seen her too many times. The public has had enough of financial chaos. It is normal for the public to resent this development of more part of the Economic and Business Committee on behalf of the highest level. Secretary of finance. It would have been possible for the public to react if he had heard of this plan before. I'm saying for myself that I'm actually getting tired of monkey riding like that at the Council. The people of the country have a natural requirement for making decisions in their behalf, and they are not exactly promoting the risks of the pension fund with the obligation of the citizens of a certain company, regardless of the systematic importance of that enterprise. That was the case with some people. Congressmen at least 2016 I still do. The bosses haven't changed. Nothing has changed, yet, Déjà vu.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u21	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for the speech. It may not be surprising that we are not quite compatible. But we often have good discussions, both on the economy and on the business committee as well as on the outside. Often they are actually more fun for me than before. A senator. I still feel that there's a certain misunderstanding with my partner on the Economic and Business Committee. I assure you, this bill will not increase risk in the investments of the pension fund. It's not like that. This, however, gives the pension fund a chance to enjoy with the subscription rights of economic prices in the stocks purchased by the pension fund and obtained in the stock market, which he has no obligation to take advantage of, but can do if evolution is practical. It is, in effect, increasing the potential for pension funds to make good use of practical or favorable developments toward the future. If it is negative, the pension fund should be put to use such rights. The problem in the current law is that the pension fund is simply forbidden to take advantage of the consequences unless, of course, the highest. President, it means that the risks of the fund fall, but they don't stand in place.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u22	Mr. President. Yes, this is a point of view, but it is based in some respects on the hope that the risk will be equal and not greater. We're talking about a lower risk, but we don't want any more risk. Hv. A senator speaks of equal risks. What are the odds of a similar risk when talking about such a business? Is it 2%, or is it 5%? I don't know. I don't think that's anything to guess about. The fact is, if there is a precipitating process today that is known to reduce risks, they are allowed. The only event in which a risk increase is contraindicated. This is what the current law involves, of course, only in the incredibly unlikely case at the time of the risk. Certainly, there is no obligation to take advantage of subscription privileges. It might be said that a business has already been purchased. Having your subscription rights allows for continuing funding, don't you think? This would mean that the subscription rights, per se, reduced the risk of the pension, even though he could choose not to use them. If that's the case, we don't need this bill. If not, there is an increased risk. These are the only options, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u23	Mr. President. Just briefly and so clearly: This bill does not mean in any way that the risks of pensions in investments increase. If so, they must think things over a little. This, however, gives pension funds a chance to have a more efficient evolution if our fortune is a favor to us in the years to come. On the other hand, the requirements of current legislation prevent financial funds from participating in an enterprise's stock tenders, Icelandic enterprises, where there is a subscription rights. We must try to ensure that the pension fund, including the people of the country, has a chance to participate in a stock supply that is considered reasonable by the managers and the management of that pension fund. And if such trends are practical, they will also have a chance of making even more money of investment, if so, without having any obligation or taking any risk at all. I think it's important to do that. The senators and the people understand this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-03-138.u24	Mr. President. Now we agree wholeheartedly. It's important to do what you want. Councilmen and the highest. The people of the land are aware of this. If this is the case, I want everyone to realize that. And if this isn't the case, I want everyone to realize that. This was exactly what I was discussing and what I was trying to point out. In 2016 the Committee came to the opposite conclusion, i.e. I don't want this to be allowed, and I don't know that anything has changed. If something has changed, we need to discuss it. And I can't see that in these few days we've been able to discuss it in a few ways, so that the conclusion is totally clear. If that's true. Furthermore, a senator says that there is no increased risk, I cannot see that this is different from anything that is already done under the present law. I didn't think it was clear enough of the visitors we were brought to us yesterday that this was strictly forbidden but would certainly be in gray areas. But gray areas are bread and butter of all Icelandic legislatures. There are so many gray areas that many thick books could be written. So I'm not sure that we should hang ourselves into this when there is a possibility that it might open up to unnecessary risks. I'm trying to make this very clear. It may well be. A senator is right. As a matter of fact, I would like to do so because I think it sounds amazing to be able to do business and to have very good profits without taking any chances. That sounds great. But the fact is, not everyone agrees. We need time to cover this thoroughly, and he doesn't have us right now.
