ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u1	On Friday, May 1, Þórunn took the Egilsdóttir of Eglísdóttir back at the General Assembly and withdrew her deputy, Þórarinn Ingi, the son of Pétursson, from the council. After more than a year's stay, the Þórunn is especially welcome. We're happy to have her back here with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u2	The President wants to state that from today on, the work schedule will be carried out. Today, too, new restrictions have been made to make it possible for as many senators and ministers to attend a meeting together. These points were consulted by a pathologist and came along with the trident all the way to the councilhouse to see the situation. The expansion area has been extended and is now the upper room, along with the two rooms east and west of the Assembly Hall, the daily figures are called the filing rooms and ministers' room, part of the council meeting area. Every once in a while, it will be placed in the councilroom and a space between seats and side halls will take into account the local rule. The seaship is free, members of Congress do not have a permanent place in a church hall or in side rooms. The ministers have only one use of the minister's beds, and a second seat for them are in the filing room. Protocols will continue in the same format as in the past few weeks, at least first for a while. The possibility of an unauthorized financial system is being examined and the outcome of that case is likely to be short- term.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u3	Borist has received a letter from the prime minister asking for every request to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 1161, on contracts of government funds, from Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u4	So on April 2, 3, 4, and 6, the program was distributed to members of the Parliament and must be agreed to take the matter on. The president's view of these variants is adopted without a vote if no one objects to it. So no one acts contrary, and variations are accepted, and they can fit things in at the meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u5	To answer, Prime Minister, Transport and Regional Ministers, Health Minister, Transport, Industrial and Organic Ministers, and Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u6	A respectable president. V.E.G. The prime minister has invited us directors of the political parties to a meeting for the Constitution that we have been doing during this terms, and we are expected to meet with the prime minister on Friday. This was made clear in a survey by a social science agency prepared for us on the committee, the attitude of the nation. The message is that it needs to be clear and set up a resource directive. In my opinion, the current directive is not clear enough, and it does not trust the nation's right to the resources. But all right, I'm not going to discuss it now, but much more, the clear messages, which are: one man, one vote. Discriminate votes will be eliminated. It is clear from the study that the nation's firm will is to reevaluate the injustices involved in today's conflict of votes. This is one of the most clear examples of public interest in our time. And now that we have the opportunity to handle these matters with all the directions we have, this clear message, we'll have to deal with this. This is one of the nuclear issues built by restoration. his case, and his course, and his ideals, that one man is in the value of one vote. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, if she will promote the precise recording of this event. Based on the course of matters, the people's will is clear and I believe we should take it into account. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir for bringing this up. First, I would like to say in general about the constitution work being done during this terms, that it was my decision to request this meeting now that the first step has been taken into the reduction of a meeting ban, indeed not to discuss the matter as a matter of course. A senator asks about, but to discuss matters that were far along and that pertained to the Presidency and Management Board. I still have my hopes that we can discuss at the next council proposals for a change in constitution, both in terms of the resource directive as well. A senator mentioned, the arrangement for environmental protection and the establishment of the President and the Commission. - I'm going to tell the President that time doesn't work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u8	It's clear to the president that there's a Monday at the clock, but it's the President's clock time check.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u9	In terms of the equation, it was not on my original schedule for this terms, since I traded my work with an overall review of constitutions to two terms. I have said, however, that I am interested in changing the programme when I am prepared to do so and, in fact, to do so. That's why it was one of the factors that we entered not just the scan as a subject. A senator also mentioned the subsequent reasoning survey. That is exactly what happened. A senator mentioned, it is of great interest to equal the value of votes. The effect of the discussion at the reasoned conference was, in fact, that people were prepared to look at more ways than changing the country into a single district, i.e. It was prepared to adjust the preferred ship to match the size of a vote, but this general line was very clear. A senator mentions. So I intend to record it on Friday's meeting whether there is an interest in taking this matter on a program during this terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u10	A respectable president. This is a tremendous statement made here. It is quite clear that we, in our restoration, firmly support that this case will be taken into account. The nation's will is clear, not just in this inspection, but that as we began to dig deeper into the nation's true will through the reasoning analysis, this demand and vision of the nation always became clearer. It is absolutely clear that we will support the program of the presidents of the political parties. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, as the situation is now involved in creating a resource policy, opinions are highly divided among the leaders of the classes. So I refer to the chairman of the left movement, ◯ green supply and prime minister, even though not all are highly proselytized, including groups with the highest standards. However, the government's prime minister, taking equal terms into a constitution, is so that there are more categories that support it than only the governments as such. It's a simple recommendation to pick this up. It's extremely important here that there's one man who gets one vote, that that doesn't mean that the person who lives in Kopavogi has only half a vote. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's a terrible discrimination.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u11	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator back there. That's about to happen. Now, a great deal of work has been done in this field for the season's election, and it is clear that we will no doubt not achieve everything that was aimed at in my original plan for the terms of the season. But again, I reiterate that it is my sole ambition to submit proposals for a change in constitution to the next council, both in terms of resource regulations and the regulations of environmental protection and the establishment of the President and the Commission. I am very open to consider other principles, both in the case of others. A candidate here talks about the equalness of votes but also other regulations we have been discussing. I believe the monologue has to be a line in which the leaders of the clans want to go so that at least they can get matters established during their therapy from the next fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u12	A respectable president. Part of the patient's rights due to Covid-19 have been removed? They are preventing people from dying from the Covid-19 virus, but what if they die from inactivity? It's pretty serious to rot down on the waiting lists after having a heart or blood vessel or a replacement procedure. There is a 90 - day European rule on operations abroad, but it is not currently possible. The question is, What can you do and what health ministers and governments are doing on a waiting list? What has been the increase in postoperative waiting lists? How serious is the situation in those who wait in this hospice of death who eat a terrible lot of drugs, especially those whose drug habits are strong? What about national action? All available operations are to be used to shorten the list of waitings, thereby providing this group as soon as possible from this inhumanly waiting list system. Now May 4 will be possible again. What's the plan? How to Work My Waiting Arts And the key question is, How long will this take? For it is clear that time always goes by slowly and painfully for those on these list of waiting and waiting. I say from my own experience, it sucks. I'm afraid for those in there, and I believe it's time to deal with it and make sure once and for all that we explain this waiting list system so that the period of the waiting list will never be longer than three months.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. As indicated by the senator's case, a selective action begins today from March 23 onward. That pause was followed by a letter received from the surgeon that it was best to make such a decision in view of the need for all our medical systems for reactions to Covid-19. We are now asking the health institutions to review all their plans and especially those under the waiting list. We do not yet know how this recession has affected the waiting period, but the surgeon's office has been specifically requested to take it. Tomorrow I expect that - or at least No doubt later this week, hopefully it will work tomorrow - to have a meeting with the directors of all health institutions in the country as well as the director of Iceland's Medical Insurance and Aeronautics, where we are actually taking the position for the first time after the cow so called is behind us, and we have changed the meeting boundaries and have re-scheduled measures. We need even. To look at what the senator mentioned here, i.e. problems that may have been accumulated during this unusual condition. I want less of it. A member of the Parliament claims that the disaster of the public defense is still in force in the country. It is also, fortunately, both in health care and in clinics, where we can enter into the long - term future, our practices have changed. I hope I can find out in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u14	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Healthcare Minister, Jethro Svavarsdóttir, for the answers. We know that in this amazing situation we've been in, if we take a few months back in time and since Covid came, on average, 44 people have died in Iceland a week but have been before 46, so we're actually in better shape than many other peoples in this regard. But then I ask what we're going to do when we find that the list of waiting has come to a fairly large number of people who have the right to take action abroad. How will we deal with this? These people can't use this right. I ask, what will be done for these people? Will these actions be taken into account within the country? Of course, that would be the best case because there are three measures for each of us to take so that we could save a lot of money on it. How's the top? A health minister to solve this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u15	A respectable president. That's at least clear respecting the situation as it is today, because there has really been only a limited amount of selective measures, that patients may not also have communicated with qualified experts. So it may still be necessary to wait until we really see the need for waiting lists. But it is also true. Senator that no one goes outside, at least these weeks are not the way things are, and this need to be taken into account. But I wanted to mention it here for the lessons, the positive, of these organizational changes that have now been made by Covid-19, that we see that there are other significant numbers in health care by phone and via the Internet. We can also see in the powerful Department of the Covid-19, at a Land Hospital task that hopefully can be transferred to more disease groups, with a view to improving the quality of the patient.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u16	A respectable president. I'd like to be here today to direct a question to the highest level. Prime Minister, who is involved in the cost of employment and in what way the government sees to try to minimize it in our present days. The main focus today is to protect jobs and companies so that there is a potential for more intense resistance as the situation improves. So it would be a bit strange to see new cases come from the government that place an increase in the cost of an enterprise from the present level and greatly increase the level of monitoring. Only today are cases in the 1st. which is the case. And when it comes to the revised Government Constitution, which was revised today in April and a little over 60 cases dropped from the previous, it seems that no special analysis has been completed, or emphasis has been made, in particular on bringing back issues that add greater burden to the job life. In this context, I would like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Will the government postpone contributions and, according to incidents of the payments that place an increase in the cost of employment and to add to the dwindling levels of the surveillance industry, already the most important part of the world's work? The revised Constitution of the government, since April, is being taken up by sufficient means. The question is, Will the government postpone contributions and, according to incidents of the payments, contribute to the rising cost of employment and to the corrosiveness of the surveillance industry?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Bergþór son of Ólason for this interesting inquiry, which I'm not sure I understand completely, about the complexity and surveillance sector. What's the problem? A senator to refer? Is he referring to a case that is involved in the registration of real owners, a huge transparency that we've done here at the council and have been working on, in turn, increasing the intelligence of larger companies? I refer to a travel, industrial, and innovation minister in the context as well as to increase the transparency of large enterprises. Is he referring to the case that I have put forth for the protection of a informant who is truly involved in increasing transparency? Is he referring to my case of defense against conflict of interest, which is also about increasing transparency? Is that what it is? A senator calls the jamming and surveillance industry? I think that more of the people running a business in Iceland would agree that it should be the ambition of Icelandic employment to have as much transparency as possible, that the public can have access to information about companies and to form the registration of their real owners. It is a huge interest, not only for us who live here, but also to make sure that we are competitive in the international community when it comes to defense against money and other things. So I want to ask you why. A senator, because I believe that he agrees with me about all these national contracts I've listed here, which case is exactly where he speaks of increasing ambiguousness and surveillance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u18	A respectable president. I thank Prime Minister for the answer. Unfortunately, there was something on the line that I expected and suggests that this has not received any special attention to the current work. Just for example, it's the highest. Prime Minister brings up the matter of a change in national law and a decision to establish possessions that puts the country's farmers on other lands and keeps a terrible circle that turns on defending itself from the pursuit of the state's funds. That's one example. Today the climate issue will be determined on commitment and emissions, for example. Be looking to that, if I leave the bill correctly, to hire six EEA staff, collected, to monitor and so forth. So these things are obvious, I've only got a minute left. [[Up front.]] I reiterate it and encourage prime minister to bring up a group of advisers to take one spin on their legal record with the intention of not adding additional laws to their current professional life. [[The president calls.]] Enough is enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u19	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator again, but the difference is that I don't consider it an additional law of employment to practice more productive practices. I do not consider it an additional law on employment to participate in the huge social projects that all of us are involved in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. And because of what? A senator specifically referred to this case, it is just about simplifying the registration system and making it more beneficial. As far as nationalities are concerned as well. The senator mentioned, and I believe that there is quite a solid agreement here at the council, except for the Party of the Central Party, I don't think that this is all about the interests of the economy. Further, the remarkable work that began at that time under the leadership of the then prime minister, son of Davíð Oddsson, is being carried on with the vision of the importance of destroying the fog that ruled over land's ownership. Following this, the National Assembly bill was submitted, one of the most important things that has been presented here at a council when it comes to ensuring the rightness of the public. I have no faith in anything but that there is more than an overwhelming share here for completing this project, as suggested in that bill, which is actually just a vote here at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u20	A respectable president. That's exactly what we need to talk about. It was one thing in another of the most beautiful sermons. Yesterday's prime minister, who I didn't feel quite right, and that was when she started talking about the virus that had to be overcome as an enemy. I know it was all metaphorism, but I still think that if there's something all this stuff has taught us, then nature is not an enemy that needs to be conquered or conquered but our environment that we need to adapt to and live with. Mr. President. If something positive the virus has brought on it, it is that the earth has been given a little air to breathe. This has temporarily reduced the excessive plunder of the earth's limited resources and the use of oil. It's a song. I'd like to hear the highest. The Environment Minister will only discuss with me whether it is empty now in order to reevaluate and reevaluate all forms of bad habits in dealing with nature. We finally experience a recession in greenhouse gas emissions, kind of inexhaustible. Has the highest. Environment Minister considered ways to ensure that result if a word can be used, will be maintained? Would he be inclined to demand more fishing, to do agricultural work? Is it really expected that transport will be more efficient? Will there be again wild and crazy flying, how will we secure the continuation of greenhouse gas emissions? How, Mr. Honorable President, are we going to have this? There is much work here, and it would be interesting to learn whether Icelanders can use this song to get on the straight path for greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u21	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator is eager for a good inquiry. This is exactly what I believe is important to us to be able to discuss further here at the conference hall. That's what I've said about the transformation following the crown virus on, for example. Greenhouse gas emissions that I wanted it to be out of something other than the crown virus, that we were achieving this success in the world, with a concerted effort to reduce emissions. What I think we can learn from this virus and what has happened here, for example. The reduction in greenhouse gas emissions is precisely that the network that has been so good and so great in the community to deal with the virus is the exact equivalent we need in order to cope with climate change. Seeing it increases my outlook on life. I think we'll soon see the emissions go back up, but our project is that, in the long run, we are removing the emissions, as we see happening right now. For example, the government has already taken action to speed up energy exchanges, to speed up carbon binding and to put more money into innovation, which will be useful in the work to take place and on new projects that can precisely lead to changes in marine soil, agriculture, and construction projects, for example.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u22	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. We share this vision, and hopefully there will be some results. I may be surly, but I haven't had much to do with a very green effort of the government's initiatives and I don't see much green emphasis there. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers whether we can expect to see such emphasis in the coming packages, whether there is much work to do in green infrastructure investments that would support the exchange of energy on land and sea, electricalization rejection and expansion of the round - way loading stations. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to see if we can expect further green emphasis on the future government operations panels.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u23	V.E.G. President. As I said before, we have already taken a number of measures, e.g. to speed up energy exchange. There we need to look to specific aspects of our life. We need to look for heavy transport and parking, we have to be able to replace the vehicle fleet more quickly when traveling services return because they are entering the post-selling market, 40 to50% in recent years. This is what we're doing, we're in a hurry, so the package of action that was approved here in March had many green emphasis. I'd also like to make a special point that innovation, funding for innovation, of course, also suggests that environmental projects and those being involved today can be applied. That's what I think is very important. Of course, the virus is causing us very much harm, especially those who lose their lives, those who lose health, and those are matters that we have been dealing with through our health. [[The president calls.]] Then there's the economic package, and that's where we're looking at green solutions, just as I came in.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u24	A respectable president. A question about methodology is asked. Since unusual times are now and the council is working in an unusual way, neither the public nor the members of the government are fully aware of how the government operates in its affairs. That's why I want to ask the highest. Ministers on how to proceed with these measures and each methodology. Government is. How are these actions combined? Who are the economic advisers of the government, and what scaffolding, if any, is behind the government's actions?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u25	Mr. President. The Council of the Management Board of Iceland is widely assumed to be a member of the Council of State and the Minister's Committee on Economic Affairs. There has been a secretary's committee on state funds that has kept in mind the preparation of measures presented by the government. They, of course, depend on those experts who are members of the Board of Directors, especially the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs, and on the work being done in the context. On the scene of Iceland's Secret Bank, Iceland's Habitat and other professionals we support in all our policy. Then there is the Minister's Committee on Economics, which also meets and reviews the larger picture, we can say, in the economic situation of the nation. The measures established by the government have been prepared at the level of the Ministers' Committee on State Money, which has the role under the Council of Government and, of course, adhered to all the expertise involved in the crisis. For the Ministers Committees, a management team has won the Ministry Director, and he has organized subpopulations that have dealt with economic and social aspects. Of course, that group has taken some into account, for, like all other members of the body, we have received quite a few indications and ideas from both individuals, stakeholders, and to form members of the labour market have introduced considerable amounts of ideas into this work. It has been introduced on the other hand at the scene of the National Economic Council, where members of the workforce and representatives of the local community sit, and on the other hand, I have held several meetings with the officers and introduced the work done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u26	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I still demand to know if there are any formal diagnostics and to be used to evaluate operations, if they have been absent, and if so, if it is possible for the council to get access to them. Besides, I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister if there has been any discussion within the government on the protection of a minister's interests against the action being implemented today. Has the government discussed any conflict of interest within its ranks? Has there been some talk that there may be ministers at least in a gray area when it comes to their ability to perform these measures because of links to companies that are deeply affected by the government's actions? Has this been discussed or might it be considered?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u27	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. As mentioned in my case in the past, there are a number of scenarios and the Ministry of Economics and Economics has arrived at a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee and reviews the existing scenarios. But as I have also repeatedly been told by a U.S. Director on the Economic and Business Committee, and I can't tell you exactly that, but I do expect the Committee to call the Ministry to go over the scene. I'd be surprised if the committee hadn't. Similarly, there is the economic forecasts presented in the Council of Public Affairs, which, of course, are very important evidence in this regard. That's the same data we've all seen. I just want to reiterate that this is so full of uncertainty that it is very difficult to talk directly about forecasts. Rather, it is more likely to be on stage, which is based on what that means if we say that the tourism is not taking over in this year and something like that. There we can never talk about prophecy. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator here asks for the best interests of a minister. [[The president calls.]] Of course, ministers can tell themselves about matters that concern their personal interests, and there are examples. [[The president calls.]] This has not happened with these actions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u28	A respectable president. I'd like to access a fish farm's license and rush a permit unit there. Recently, the greatest decision was made. A marine minister has to put up an effort to shorten a treatment period in the distribution of fish farms, but it has not been recommended that the period of treatment in publishing allowing fish farms to be reduced in moderation. This is one way by the government today of Covid-19 to strengthen the economy and set up projects and, above all, to strengthen the administration in these areas. In the case of fish farming, it is often stated that there will be a long waiting waiting period to be taken care of by the Organization and the EEA. The hurrying of payment for fish farming may be during this year, and in the future, a major investment in this country and employment of more people and that is what we need in these times. In order to operate fish farms, the Agency's opinion on environmental impact assessment needs to be established, and a management permit from the European Environment Agency needs to be authorised by the Agency. I'd like to direct that question to the highest level. Environment Minister if he has examined the duration of the permit force in the institutions under him, i.e. The Agency and the EEA, with regard to the actions the government wants to take. What measures can be taken so that the time limit is respected?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u29	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the inquiry involved in the duration of the permit unit. The question may be, Why has the rate of verbal treatment not been too fast in some cases? It has been noted that in some cases, processes may be too complex and, in other cases, simply take a long time to settle matters at our institutions, which are often and often because of manure. I'm going to come into this on these issues. On the basis of the Treaty, we have been working on these matters, hurrying the permit forces, with different means, but so that the introduction of environmental organizations and the public is guaranteed, as the Treaty states. Perhaps in the first place, the assessment of national legislation on environmental assessment and legislation has shown that every month of our neighboring countries is longer than found at home. This may partly explain, we simply have a short delay for the institutions to work on these complex issues. Second, there are some sources of simplicity on certain aspects of the legislation's evaluation of environmental impact approved at the Council of the previous year that allow us to combine both environmental assessments and estimates. Then we are considering the possibility of a further simplicity in an electric license line following the storm in December, and suggestions on this will soon be available. But I guess I'll come to the rest of my answer right after that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u30	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Ministers for the answer and agree that there must be no hurry to the environmental costs, not at all. But we need to get this into practice and then I'm asking if there's even a reason to better integrate the progress of the work and management between the Food Agency and the EEA so that there's less chance of double work. Is it somewhere in these factors? In this way they could naturally use that knowledge from these institutions. This could speed up the process. Are there plans to increase the human resources in these institutions? But it is clear that we do not want to go on the right or the same but simply speed up the process so that we can get this job started. It is of utmost importance to get increased export costs and to get more people involved in this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u31	V.E.G. President. It's good to know we're what we're doing. A senator agrees on the need to care for public access in this process, and I am absolutely convinced that it can be simple things without having to take the edge of society or the public, and I know that there is an excellent partnership in itself. We need to speed up work on the environment assessments, and this work is going on, so I also have high hopes that we can look to some of these factors in which these two factors are integrated. Since then, a large increase in funding during this terms has been made to the decision-making committee on the environmental and resource issues that have completely changed the treatment rate there, so he is about to reach the place he is supposed to be, finally, at last. We are now raising budgets for the Organization because the crisis rate has been way too slow. It's because of a person's nature. These are among the things we're working on at my Ministry. But what's wrong. A senator specifically mentioned regarding the interaction of the legislatures at institutions that may not hear under the same minister, that is something we have considered, but at any rate, we do not conclude to combine it so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u32	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct climate change laws, No. 70/2012. The bill, on the other hand, is proposed to ensure a legal framework for what Iceland, Norway, and the European Union have made with them a common objective of commitment to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions over the period of 20213/42030 within the framework of the Paris Convention. The context includes the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2018/841 on land use, change in land use and forestry and directive (EU) 2018/842 on the binding of annual reductions in EU greenhouse gas emissions during the period of 2023/2030 according to commitments in the Paris Convention. However, the bill is aimed at implementing the necessary changes in EU emissions commercial systems, including the implementation of monitoring and reporting regulations according to the CORSIA System of the International Environment Agency. I'm going to take a closer look at it from here on out. As stated earlier, the agreement between Iceland, Norway and the European Union includes the implementation of two EU types, key types to reach the year 2030. The EU Regulation (EU) 2018/842 includes energy emissions, industrial processes, chemical/prophylaxis, agriculture and waste. According to EU formula, Iceland received a demand of about 29% of emissions in the above categories. The whole objective in the European Union, in Norway and Iceland, is as many as 40%. However, there is a Regulation (EU) 2018/841 on greenhouse gas emissions and carbon uptake from land use, land use and forestry. In agreement with the EU, the category of land use, changing land use and forestry will not result in net greenhouse gas emissions. I would like to state that 29% reduction in emissions is not the goal of the Icelandic government in the year 2030. Rather, it is the goal of the Icelandic government to achieve a minimum 40% reduction from the sector mentioned above during the period 20213/42030. This involves ambition, but it is equally forethought, for it is already pressured to put Kingdom interests on more ambitious goals for lowering greenhouse gas emissions. In my opinion, this is absolutely necessary. This bill also suggests changes to the sections of the law that deal with the EU's release business system, the so-called ETS. These changes include the implementation of directive (EU) 2018/410 which alters the EU emission-relevant policies during the fourth period of 2021, and we Iceland are already partying. The ETS system is a key tool for achieving the objectives of the Paris Convention in 2030, but it has been proposed that total emissions from within the system will be 43% in the affected sectors compared to emissions in 2005. Changes made in the ETS system during the fourth period should help achieve this target. Some 11,000 companies in Europe are under the system. In this country, seven companies participate in the business system and four pilots. All emissions in Iceland fall under the ETS system and therefore take charge of about 40% emissions in Iceland. The release that falls under the ETS system is not the direct responsibility of the European government but of the companies that join the business system. The key changes to the updated ETS system for the fourth period are as follows: A certain part of the release material is still expected to be given without charge. This will be done in spite of the general issue of emissions and the distributed literature will be reduced by 2.2% per year instead of 1.74%. A total of 6 billion sources are expected to be distributed free of charge over the period of 2021 families030. A record of the business centres entitled to non-employment measures must be updated. The file will be updated every five years instead of ten years before. During the period, two distributions will be replaced once. This will be to reflect more fully the actual production of operators who can make a big change over a period of ten years. A so - called success date of 54 will be revised during each distribution period. This will be done so that there is more progress in technology. During the fourth period of the ETS system, a new European innovation fund will be established. The sea is aimed at strengthening large projects, with a minimum of 7.5 million euro, in terms of energy - consuming industry, renewable energy, energy storage and income, binding, and the use of carbon dioxide. Projects shall have the primary objective of promoting greenhouse gas emissions. Both companies and government agencies will be able to collect the funds. The bill contains provisions for the fund that enables the implementation of the European Commission's Regulation on its activities. The bill also suggests a change to the section of the law that deals with the registration system, but the rules on which it changes several times over the fourth period of the ETS system. The registry system is a largely electronic database that lists the state and movement of state release and private resources. During the period of 2221/2030, the so-called mobilisation distribution will be distributed to Member States under the Regulation (EU) 2018/842 on the binding of annual contractions. The implementation of the Regulation is exactly part of the agreement between Iceland and Norway with the EU, as agreed above. It is mandatory to establish a protocol in the registration system in order to store information on the release of each State. Finally, changes are proposed to the law, which is due to the origin of the so-called CORSIA System of the International Air Action Agency. The system is global and is based on ideologies comparable to the ETS system and is therefore aimed at reducing carbon dioxide emissions from air traffic, thus supporting the Paris Convention's objectives of greenhouse gas recession. It is necessary to introduce the obligation into law to make clear the obligation of flight drivers according to the global WHO system to monitor, report and receive a witness according to the Agency's system of values. Iceland is monitoring the system for international flight monitoring. The system's alarm is based on the beginning of 2019. The bill also suggests the expansion of the law's range of values now confined to the EU's emission-relevant system but monitoring under the CORSIA system involves monitoring of emissions from all international flights. Despite CORSIA, the ETS system is still expected to be operating in the EEA. Thus, the CORSIA rules will be implemented as an adjunct to the ETS system. A respectable president. It is reasonable to believe that regular consultations with the Council have been made with the European Union and Norway for the joint emissions targets under the Paris Convention until 2030. The agreement was presented at a joint meeting of the State Committee and Transport Committee 30 November 2018. In addition, environmental and transport committees were introduced on 26 February 2019, and sent to the Foreign Affairs Committee to consider where they require adjustment. On March 5, 2020, the Allied Council adopted the proposal of the Foreign Minister for Reconclusion on the Confirmation of the decision made by the European Commission No. 269/2019 of 31 reviews of cooperation in specific areas beyond the limit of the four-item of freedom with the EEA Convention due to a joint increase under the Paris Convention for the 20213/42030. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject, and I've suggested that it's presented now. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Environmental and transport committees, after the end of the 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u33	A respectable president. Here we deal with the best of matters, the bill to correct a climate change, commitment, and disposal rights. It's a good time, now in Covid, certain cities have for the first time seen blue sky, Venetian inhabitants seeing fish swimming in their water for the first time in years. I've been there, and there's nothing you could see but shit to the bottom. We're getting a lot of pain. Are we starting to the right end? I'm asking the highest. Minister on authority to sell contaminants. Is it not one of the things we should start with, that since we have little contamination elsewhere? The bill is 41 pages, followed by regulations and other things. I tried to read myself through the text, and on each page the EU, EEA, and EFTA, sometimes across the pages. How much of this is from the EEA, it's 98% and 1% from Iceland and 1% of Norway?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think it is extremely important that we participate in the global work of climate change and know that we are affected. A senator agrees. That means even. that when the decision was made to take Norway and the European Union on the way of reducing greenhouse gas emissions together in accordance with the Paris Convention, it called for us to implement a comparable or the same system that is being done in the European Union and Norway. What is presented here on page 41, if I remember correctly. A senator, to engulf them our common journey, testified. Hence, the finer words come. As often as we have seen, a senator mentioned. It is true that climate legislation in Iceland takes a lot of work, I don't know the percentage, the medium of European legislation and the agreement we've already had with the European Union and Norway at previous levels. What we're here to suggest to be introduced into the code of the law takes exactly what has to do with these issues, i.e. To deal with the Paris Convention in cooperation with other European countries, which I think will be successful. I believe that is the right way to achieve the most results and maintain the greatest ambition in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u35	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers but would like to reiterate my question on the sale of pollutants. We have amazingly clean energy, especially electricity production. Is it normal, or is it really a cause for us to deny that we are selling pollution packages? Would we not be much better off not selling them and being able to advertise ourselves as a relatively clean country? Then we deal with the main contamination. I see that Iceland is required to drop by 29%. We're supposed to do even better, and we'll probably be able to do better. We have an obligation to do so. It's way too complicated and too much. I think we could quite achieve this and achieve better goals if we had simpler rules and laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u36	V.E.G. President. If I understand why. A senator would be right to refer to the use of electrical sources of origin. That case has nothing to do with any of this. They're not connected. That's different. I can agree with that with what. A senator said that it sounds very strange that in our electrical bills there is electricity that originated with coal incineration or so on, but it is not related to this. Then I agree with what. A senator to 29% contract is just a minimum, and the Icelandic government has declared that it is headed for at least 40% contractions. It is clear that in the coming years, there will be further demands that the world's kingdoms take prideful goals and that international work is taking place.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u37	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for History and would like to pause at a chapter of the bill on page 24. 21 which refers to the assessment of effect. Here, the European Union's paperwork is at its best level and is being improved in this regard. Of course, there are some areas in which these requirements apply, including the following: about increasing the number of employees at the current expense. This is a much more extensive climate accounting process, as it were, and it is attributed to which institutions it most interests. It refers to the EEA, the land transplants, and the forestry as well as to a number of other institutions. There is now a request for additional funds for this. We see considerable financial expenditures due to the virus epidemic, and that is why it must be necessary to go to councils when it comes to increasing public employment during the coming years. It's clear that this alone is going to cost 80 million here and now and then 55 million a year, I see here. The number of employees is increasing. V.E.G. A minister points to a current financial programme, but it will be changed. It's the highest. A minister realizes that these funds are over his head? Is it not necessary to try to be economical in the financial needs involved? Is it not possible to do so within the Ministry rather than get this directly from the State Fund to demand of the European Union, as well as many other sources, and follow this writerhood? [[The president calls.]] The highest. In view of what we are dealing with today in terms of the financial expenses, does a minister consider these costs to be reasonable?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u38	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. As the senator came in on the evaluation of the bill's impact, this cost is thought to be contained within the financial resources of the topic field. That's what we're working on right now, part of the money we've picked up in the past few years, we've added to the institutions there. I would especially like to mention the importance of engaging in the increased research that the bill in itself calls out to us as if we had needed to do, but they are turning toward agriculture, forestry, and the recovery of wetlands I know of. Like the man standing here, a senator takes a keen interest in and ambition in them. In my opinion, it is the necessary cost. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u39	Mr. President. It is a question of what is needed when we face these huge financial expenses. It says that there are other institutions that this will affect. Do we, then, expect other government agencies to come to the legal committee and ask for special financial authority because of this new arrangement? In terms of costing my lunch, this seems to me to be inexplicable. At the end, I'm asking the highest. Minister on important information I feel I need. What will be the cost of professional living? That is something we need clear answers about. We are aware of the circumstances in which professional life is inexorably important, and there is an increasing charge on the job, which may then have a negative impact on trying to build it up, as all of us are trying to unite here and now. There are two things I would've liked to get more information on. I didn't think it would be clear enough from the highest level. A minister in regard to the financial strategy, for it needs now to be reviewed. She'll be changed completely from what she's been through. Will a minister, then, be willing to put up with the effort to cut down the most costly cost? I think it's a considerable amount, growing demand from the European Union on paperwork, reporting and so forth on climate issues. We are certainly participants in this worldwide work, and that is fine, but now all we have to do is look at all costs and see where we can save, and that may be impossible to accept without all the demands of the European Union. We need to review exactly where we will find the extra amount of money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u40	V.E.G. President. Here's what we're talking about. A senator for more paperwork than I'd like to suggest that by reviewing the registration system referred to here for the ETS system, we are more likely to simplify the system than the rest. These are all databases that are in the world, and they really make it easier for any agency to handle this. I think it is also very important to keep the accounting that in itself is not making any basic changes, in fact, is making very little changes. The enterprise needs to maintain the focus of the emissions of greenhouse gases from its activities, and this remains their role and is essential to understanding the emissions to which Iceland is responsible. No less demands can be made now than has been done before. I don't expect anything particularly significant about the books. What I mentioned earlier costs money, that's right, strengthening research, especially those involved in agriculture, forestry, and recovery of wetlands. That is not enough knowledge today. That knowledge must be added precisely so that we can be strong in the future when it comes to demonstrating the emissions of these sectors and their bindings. It is a matter of interest to Iceland to be able to stand on your feet with laboratory tests when it does. I mean, this is done to strengthen us rather than the other. [[The president calls.]] We need to take pride in the climate, and this is part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u41	A respectable president. We will consider a vital issue that is broad and touches all Icelanders and every person on earth, all life in heaven and on earth. There are seven companies in Iceland who are involved in the EU commercially authorised emissions system and pay for their emissions above what they are given free of charge. I'm asking a minister if we're looking at stability on non-profit greenhouse gas emissions or if currency is likely to become a larger portion of what is released. How does a minister predict the development of emissions from these largest companies in Iceland that are still active in the future? Is efforts being made to reduce their emissions progressively? How do governments use themselves in this regard? We're dealing with the changes in these laws, and they have to be used to monitor and report emissions to the EEA according to a validated system. But these companies are expected, if I understand correctly, outside the EU business system. I'm asking a minister: Do Ministers believe with this bill it's taking a step towards further drop of flight activity under the regulations of this business? Has it been evaluated how this will affect the work programme and the business of these companies? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u42	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the inquiry. With regard to non-profit releases as of any given moment. A senator entered are the changes in this system that indicate that this non-profit source or pot, rather, which is a provision for all the enterprises in its entirety will shrink faster than expected during the third period, i.e. 2012●2020. So over the period 20213/42030 this contraction is supposed to be more rapid than it has been so far. This is very important to create the incentive and pressure that these enterprises are attacking technology changes that actually reduce emissions and that's the goal of the system. Right away. A senator asks me about the development of emissions from the companies that are at home in Iceland, I believe that in the next ten years, it is very important to feel that a tangible contraction will occur. This may not happen immediately, but in the latter part of the ten - year period, it will take place. There, governments have encouraged cooperation and cooperation, including the U.S. the big business companies and energy company of Reykjavík in the search for solutions and the means to use the so-called CarbFix method, i.e. pumping carbon dioxide into rocks reduces emissions dramatically. I have high hopes that in the latter part of the next ten years, this could result in less emissions. I think I'm gonna have to come in on the flying issues later in answer to what I'm saying. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u43	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. With these legislation changes, the EEA's more important role is to collect services, assign emissions and monitor and have a registration system on hand, if I understand correctly. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is the Agency fully equipped to handle increased projects regarding knowledge, design, technology and financial resources? Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister very little of an article in the bill that goes on to a newly created fund to set up and minister to set up a regulation on the activities of the funds that will work in the European Economic Area. I'd like to hear something from a minister about the role of this fund and what his mission should be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u44	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator again for his input, and I'd like to introduce to him a little what he said about the flight. We know that in recent years there has been a tremendous increase in air emissions, although it has fallen down in these last two months. It's very important that we control the international and the future of the CORSIA system of the International Air Force that we control the emissions from international airlines. The first step is to measure how large it is so that we can take the next steps that are then equal to all the increases that occur from that measured point. That's the idea to start with. Then we need to move naturally to reduce emissions by attacking new technology and further carbon binding. So it is a very big project ahead of us. The EEA is developing mainly specific increased tasks involved in management of the accounting and extravasation of the ETS system. We expect to raise funds for the Agency in the bill. She is very well equipped with experts in this area, with dozens of environmental experts and other experts working for her, so I don't worry about it, but this would help her to increase her manpower. If I can just come into this exciting innovation fund for a second. A senator referred to it as his main aim to strengthen large projects involving the energy industry, renewable energy, energy storage and storage, binding, and the use of carbon dioxide, where projects have the primary objective of improving greenhouse gas emissions. [[The president calls.]] I hope he can be used here in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u45	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill to correct climate change. Materials are primarily bound to commitments and releases. What I want to come in with the 1st. I think it's an aspect that I'm most relieved of, unless the conclusion is that there's no cost to the business being dealt with by the regulations involved in these changes. But based on the staff number to work with, as it is said in the bill, the EEA's increased management department, I can't believe that professional life will totally escape an additional cost for this. See page 18. 22 in the text of the bill, under impact assessment, so that the effects on the EEA are quickly slided, the Agency needs to increase by half the status of the Agency as a result of this. In the same articles, additional work answers to the EEA's two standard values. It continues to require an increase in one position for the EEA due to new projects related to this and continues within the same articles, saying that this corresponds to the work of four experts for two years, but the annual cost of operating is equivalent to one or two standard values. This puts together six to ten staff from the EEA. If the highest. A minister will come up here again before the case is referred to. It would be interesting to know if I understand the text of the bill correctly. I think it's an enormous percentage addition to this bill because in unsubstantiated inquiries less than an hour ago, it came to the highest level. The prime minister raised and responded to an inquiry for a complicated system of action and said that this bill is for simplicity only. I didn't have the imagination to think that it would take ten new EEA employees to simplify this rule. I'd appreciate it if it was the highest. The secretary of the environment would come into this. This will be considered, of course, on the Environment and Transport Committee, but I think it's such a surrogacy in response to the highest level of response. Early prime minister that I would like to get an explanation for this, especially now, but only later than in the case of the committee. The scene I especially wanted to fit in with the 1st. Faced with the cost of employment and the companies that are subject to this rule. A so - called government advisory Commission on government surveillance, which operates under the law of No. On October 9, 2019, 27/199, the Ministry of Environment submitted references to the Ministry of Environment for this matter. It is the wisest document I can think of, and there were indications and comments. In fact, the frame is so well inserted that it is a special guide from the Committee on the matter of what the committee is doing with its tips. It says, with the permission of a president: It would be good if it were possible to estimate the cost of enterprises from the legislation. It refers to a substantial guide. I have to admit that I haven't read the bill, and I haven't read a paper, or anything else related to a letter at work, but it seems to me that I've been completely swept by it, unless the result is that there's no cost for the companies under these circumstances. In section 6 of the report with the bill, on impact assessment, companies involved in the EU EU emissions trade system are listed. There are seven of them at the moment, and here is Alcan, Iceland. I give myself a reference to Rio Tinto in Straumsvík. Then there's Alcoa Far East, North Alcoa Grundartanga, Elkem Iceland, the Fishing Factory Factory, the Verne Data Plant, and the PC at Bakka. Then there is a warrant, which is likely already active, which is involved in an annual greenhouse gas emissions company less than 25,000 tons, being allowed to pay emissions costs instead of involvement in the business system. Under these circumstances, in view of the present position, according to the bill, the Fishing Factory of HB Granda will fall on Acdéri, the Western Island's Ice Company, Steinll hf. ... ina sheep'shouse and the West Coast of Thors Harbor. There seems to be no attempt to evaluate whether there is anything in this regular work that increases the cost of these enterprises - again, I repeat: unless the conclusion is that there is nothing that increases costs. But only from the top answer. The environmental minister to the anti-resurrection might be expected to reduce the so - called non-profit releases faster than ever before. V.E.G. If there's a misunderstanding, a minister will correct me. Only that one point was presented in response to a talk at the highest rate. A minister suggests that in addition to existing costs, the additional cost of work will fall on the companies under this rule. So I want to reiterate: We need to be careful about the costs of employment life because of this and we want to determine if in the present situation there is any reason to run such changes through if they are not set up in time for orderliness. Sadly, of course, it is very common, as all members of Congress know, that bills are so equipped to reach a certain extent of government costs at the expense of regulation and order changes, but those involved are easily overlooked at the expense of employment that still have to be carried out under this rule. But finally, I say: The need for six to ten employees in addition to what the EEA now has to do with these projects clearly indicates that there is something more going on here than the highest level. The prime minister came in earlier, who claimed that this was a matter that merely worked out by simplifying the outside and by order.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u46	A very impressive president. I suppose the president will understand that it is inevitable when I have this discussion to mention the program that is set out at this meeting because it is in one way or another in connection with the issues we are discussing. In fact, when I saw the program, I had to say, it was amazing. It is now May 4 and has just been reduced by national security requirements, including the activities of the Generals, and although Mondays have generally taken the opportunity to give counselees the opportunity to answer queries, oral inquiries, they are now deciding to put on the agenda a list of issues I think can be called only a collection of the principal secrets of the government. And you're starting to do this. But what's coming, Mr. President? The reason I mention this is because all of this stays in my hands. When this discussion is completed, a new discussion on increased monitoring and increased criteria, loyalty and pollution, plastic products is expected. The absence of plastics at the time when plastics have proved their value as essential materials in dealing with the retroviral epidemic and are actually used in all the equipment needed to keep in touch. There are all objections to throwing plastics into the ocean, but the issue below is, of course, disproportionate, as are the ones that follow, continued evading and spending of the State for adverse projects and, of course, increased damage to the public as well as taxation. But we do not need the suggestions in the bill we address, and it may be appropriate to start with. I must admit, Mr. President, that I haven't had a chance to read the book that follows the bill, because I didn't think it would be scheduled today. No matter where you open this brochure, there are new bills and new fees for public and professional life. Take, for example, 28. on page 24. 10 Where eight teams are reviewed, the Agency may be authorized to contribute to up to 500,000 dollars. Every day a fine is given to each person who violates the following factors. A lot of this is about airlines. Of course, this is the time to punish airlines. It suggests that in section 5, if a airline breaks, the operator and a pilot should be allowed to make changes in the monitoring programme may be punished, fines about 500,000. daily. There are other things that airlines and others can do. If they do not provide sufficient and validated reports on greenhouse gas emissions to the EEA in time, 500,000 dollars. daily. There is something about the duties of operators and pilots to provide information to the EEA in general. We don't know what it is, just if there's any information missing, that's 500,000 bucks. a fine. That's all there is to it. At the same time as the world's airlines, and especially the important international Air Force is fighting for their lives, the government presents a bill about how to hook up the airlines for flying and using fuel. You must wonder, " Is the government going to bring this into line with the support it has proclaimed that the airline will be able to achieve more money, whether the government will recover with such punishments and taxes, or if its goals are to interfere, on the other hand, to keep airlines and transports alive, and on the other hand, the goal of minimising such activity, as shown in this bill? ' I must say exactly as it is, Mr. President, that I don't understand what the government is going to do with this day's schedule. It is a single bullshit that is going contrary to our present objective to cope with the most likely economic downturn for over 100 years, and it has been designed to work against the goals that governments have otherwise proclaimed in that work. Although I admit it, as I mentioned earlier, that I have not been able to read through all of this, it's really no place to go down, it's all in the same book learned and, of course, on each page referred to the European Union and it's about meeting the requirements of the European Union. Whether the European Union is still working by these old requirements at the same time is trying to save its airlines. So I will continue at random to grab this book, which is shown on page 12. The 19th chapter for consultation, the work of the bill in close cooperation with the EEA. So says the Agency, with the permission of the President: the Agency plays an important role as a legal authority under the EU emission-relevant business system and as the national management of the registration system. In other words, it was contacted and consulted by the national administrator of the registration system to prepare this bill, but in fact afterwards, it seems to me that the EEA has informed the operator about what was coming. So the agreement was made with the governor, who then informed the victims of this bill of what was to come. I will continue to interrupt at random. Let's just start with Section 6, impact assessment: ▪ It is best to build up Iceland's climate accounting to meet the requirements set out in EU regulations on common responsibilities and land use, changing land use and forestry. Foresting, Mr. President, is a great help in combating greenhouse gas emissions. But what seems to be emphasised is to shovel into ditches, but it is still completely unclear whether and what will be its effect and whether this effect is positive or negative, because when a person recovers a wetlands, it releases the wetlands of metals that are at least Twenty-three times more effective greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide. I don't know if I'm supposed to get tired. A president by continuing at random to grab on this manuscript, but he will no doubt have a very detailed discussion to discuss. The issue, get it so far, because it is totally out of touch with the reality we are facing right now and filled with European directives and negative motivations, not motivated by environmental progress and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions -- no, it is all in accordance with what the European Union proposed and I think, or hoped, at least, that it is disappearing. All in agreement with what is involved in fads, tricks, to attack actions that may fall in the sense of responding rather than being encouraged to take action that can actually work. Of course, there have been a number of questions that have raised the last issue of whether much of this is a complete guise when e.g. In the Western world, they take it to China, which runs its economy and manufactures of coal burns and then purchases the goods from them because it is produced under the environmental conditions of China with carbon dioxide rather than being produced here to get rid of this information from the repeatedly mentioned in this brochure. In other words, false. This brings to mind a very special answer to the highest degree. Prime Minister to ask why. paritaprevir Bergþór Oli's Ólason in question class back there. A senator asked if the minister would try to reduce the introduction of burdensome regulations and surveillance practices. V.E.G. The prime minister seemed to come off the mountains and asked specifically if it was possible. A senator would be opposed to the rules of registration of real owners. What kind of thing is that now, Mr. President? I know people all over the country, Korean participants, sewing clubs, relief institutions, etc., have recently had to register as the real owners of their association, same with political parties, there are many members of the council here registered their party, in order to meet these requirements. Otherwise, people were in danger of getting day - to - day fines, as threatened in this brochure. As far as the message goes, just register as owner. We know that you are not the owner of the chorus, but by all means write down, since these are the requirements. In other words, it wasn't about increased transparency, like the highest. Prime Minister put it, this was about forging information. That's the problem in these environments too. It's all too much to paint the wrong image so that governments can say they're doing something about it. In Germany, Denmark, Britain, and elsewhere in Europe, wind mills are usually largely produced in China. It takes a huge amount of steel to both the foundations and the windmills themselves, and this steel is produced by coal burns in China. The production of these windmills in China has been illogical enough to eliminate much more greenhouse gases than the wind mills have been saved after they have been installed and taken up in Europe. It's all in the same book, Mr. President. Instead of providing a prospective bill on positive inducers, e.g. tax-based incentives, such as companies using technology, technology and innovations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and protect the environment are presented here by more and more penalties to punish the public and companies for making their own lives, producing products, producing valuables, or just getting between places. The fact that this is being presented, presented at the same time as society faces the largest economic decline for 100 years, is, in my opinion, completely incomprehensible, just like the cases that follow, Mr. President. They seem to have been organized, hardly by chance, to create the government's bullshit days and to try to throw as many of the troublees through as a minimum of the discussion while odd measures have been prepared so at least. a body of senators may be able to observe, but a body of Congress does not become normal in any way. I remind you that a number of senators are in a position to be unable to attend and participate in this discussion and to warn against what is happening here. I reiterate that the case will require a lot of thought and further discussion. When it's 2nd. I hope I've been able to read through all this brochure, but I think it's going to be worth a lot more comments to what's being planned here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u47	A respectable president. I have much to say in a talk. It is the scope of this conventional speech, which is enormous. I think I can allow myself to assert that when such issues as these come into the Foreign Affairs Committee, which is currently controlled here, members of the Committee, or members of the Committee, or other members of Congress, have even limited grounds to consider it, i.e. when it comes to the stage where it is authorized that this case is taken up in the EEA Convention, which is essential for this matter to be brought into this council. So I continue to encourage this discussion to the point. A senator along with other members of Parliament considered the matter in a material way. The bill shows that Iceland has agreed with the European Union and Norway on a joint target of 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. This agreement is based on the involvement of Iceland in the so - called Paris Treaty, which states that this recession is expected to progress towards 2030 and then, based on 1990 emissions. Hv. A senator is horrified by experience, not only at the council but also from the government, and was prime minister at the time Iceland made the decision to participate in this Paris contract, so I would like to ask whether it was possible to make a mistake then, whether he was forced or somehow pushed into an unattracted decision to bind Iceland to the commitments of the Paris Treaty.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u48	Mr. President. Thank you very much for asking. My name is for what? A senator handling these matters well on his committee, as I know what to do. A senator does the same thing. But regarding the question: Yes, I signed this Paris covenant, as I have confessed before, with virtually all other prime ministers, or national leaders of the world. But I have to admit, as I have done before, that it was very difficult, especially when the system, not only in Iceland, but in Europe and elsewhere, was going to reach these goals. The aims are fine, and the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions are necessary. But when you see the way to achieve that goal, you realize that when national leaders sign a goal, it is important that people continue to fit how to achieve it. The methods presented here to achieve our goals do not cause merely a fall in my opinion to bring in the progress towards the target and, in some cases, to have the reverse, to be harmful, as I mentioned at one point in a sermon about the milling process, the big solution that in fact results in very little, perhaps negative, the effects of climate issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u49	A respectable president. It is true that I maintain it that the committee I direct, the Foreign Affairs Committee, has been completed in this discussion, but of course it will be discussed in other committees. That's where I think we're going. A senator must have strong hopes for trouble. Environment Committee for this matter to be discussed. I'm sure all of us agree here at the council that it is a noble and good goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. But I don't know if we're gonna do it. A senator agrees that the purpose of the Paris Convention as such is not necessarily realistic or normal, and therefore in Iceland's case it is not noble and noble because in the Paris Treaty this release is specifically targeted, without any logicalness, years that are extremely poor for Iceland. In 1990 the largest reduction in Iceland had already taken place. In this respect I have to say that when I look back, maybe it's not fair, but it's still just statistics on paper and should be faced with any man who wanted to recognize it at the time of the Paris State deal, this criteria couldn't be normal in Iceland's light and specific circumstances in Iceland. Hv. A senator has admitted that it may have been a mistake to be involved. I wondered if he could tell me if it was his mistake or anyone else. I think it is particularly interesting in what way Iceland's interests are being maintained in the international community. I want to ask you why. In view of matters that now flow on the basis of this agreement, a member of the body of elders sees the basis of this agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u50	Mr. President. Another good question from what? President of the State Department. I'll definitely agree that we need to keep a closer eye on how these cases are being handled and implemented because when the release for Iceland was adopted in 2018, it was a good sign, Mr. President, 2018, then I'm sure the council could have done more to address and adapt Iceland's arrangement to the situation here. I want to know, though, that I wasn't saying that it was a mistake in Iceland to take part in the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. I think that's an important goal, but the methods that have been used to do so are not the least of the bill we're talking about today. I think all members of Congress should look for encouragement. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee on the importance of monitoring the implementation of international agreements and the methods used to meet them. In 2018, when the release of the Paris Convention was adopted here, it was simply decided to follow the European Union and its methods. And it didn't look like anything to Iceland's interests when it outlined these methods. We need all issues, whether energy packages or environmental reactions, to evaluate how we can effectively solve things in Iceland but not blindly follow the European Union because we look at anything other than Iceland's interests and the most effective methods.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u51	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for the history of this case. You don't have to get very deep into it why this case has come in here, it's been done very well with speeches and answers. Perhaps I would like to start this brief speech by referring to the fact that I was afraid to be absent when the synopsis proposal was taken from the State Department and came here for a discussion, but the case of the head of the State Department at the Assembly Hall was clean and put a fine picture on this whole. This is the subject of questions as to what is the basis for this matter, whether or not a human has made a mistake, etc. I think this is one of the things we can learn a lot from, how it comes to us. I agree with what. paritaprevir If Gunnlaugsson Guindarson was to realize that it is not a mistake to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and on this basis I do not think it was a mistake to participate in the Paris meeting, but whether it was a mistake to cooperate with the European Union and Norway and others to achieve these goals or whether Iceland was going to try to achieve them on its own. That's something you can really wonder about. The minister of foreign affairs at that time, of course, is responsible, but at that time, it was a man - made assessment and counseling that should be done that way. I'm not necessarily sure it was right, but it's our responsibility to be involved. It's like it is. It is a vast system, this release system discussed here, and complex in many respects, obviously cost a lot of money. Of course, the extramarital value is great, too. However, it is safe to wonder about the bill as it appears whether it is in order to increase the cost of enterprises and businesses, to increase the level of misunderstandings, and to increase the spending of the state in the past. Also, I would like to mention here in my speech that, in this matter, I am going to hand over great authority to ministers and to institutions. There's a lot of regulations to be set up, and to provide institutions and ministers, as well, I come to that below, a considerable power that you may not fully foresee when this case was released from the Foreign Affairs Committee and came to speak in its own time. I'd like to start on page 5. 3, which states in final paragraph 5. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: The Council shall set up regulations that require annual reductions in greenhouse gas emissions in Iceland, flexibility and monitoring rules in accordance with common objectives. 1 mg Ministers now have great power and ministers have considerable impact on this, but is it true that a minister can, by a simple directive, determine the annual recession of greenhouse gas emissions in Iceland? I'll just roll it up, tops. President, if that's normal. Six. it's called a release permit. It says, by permission of the president: The release permit to the EEA should be published within three months of the application provided by the Agency, as all the relevant information is received and found to be capable of monitoring and reporting about emissions from the work. It tells you that the donor or the candidate should submit certain information and be able to monitor and report emissions from the work. That's what you call it, maybe. at a certain expense, any agency with those who apply for this permit? And it's not answered, so I can see, not by the reading I've been able to use on this plate, whether the release permit comes for free. Therefore, we must call for answers to whether it is a Minister's idea that the release permit costs something and whether the funds run to the EEA to face the growing work that is discussed here as well. On page 18. 4 is a follow-up of 6. regarding the distribution of these sites and so on, it is discussed that if the operator has left the operation, he should be able to demonstrate that the operation can begin again within the appropriate time to be assigned. I wondered what the right time is. Is there anything a minister will define in a Regulation or the Agency can decide for itself what is the right time in this case? You can move on. I'm going like a what? paritaprevir For example, consider the account of Davíð Gunuga's Gunnlaugsson. where you set up a number of versions of the day's fines. Interesting for the committee to go through that well. Then I'd like to mention that this case, of course, is already on the basis of the EEA contract, but it's not really an EEA case. According to the information we have, Icelanders tried to make a national agreement with the European Union on how this should work. Of course, the European Union did not want to do so. It required entering the EEA Convention. Then there was a new form of cooperation that appears in Article 31. The contract and the case are done on that basis. This is a book of the Convention, which requires cooperation in states beyond the four aspects of freedom. This is the case because, fortunately, it was successful to avoid being placed directly in the EEA Convention. Then, on page 16. 18 Discussing the International Air Action Agency system and presenting a system called CORSIA. I'd like to go to the top. A minister can answer if this system is expected to cost something. Could this be an additional cost, or are there changes in other costs for those who contribute to it? Then it is simply possible to wonder, in view of the circumstances in which we are, that we only saw last week in the media or anywhere, that a survey was made among the members of the International Air Force, if I remember correctly, and there are several versions of the timing of flying back to the right place. So I'd like to wonder if this case, at least that which turns to flight, is not a time error, if it's not best to keep it just. There's no way to see that the flight is gonna be okay in the near future. If this case leads to burdensome action or to costs for that business, I do not find it wise to begin adding to it according to the circumstances that exist today. On page 18. 21 For evaluation of the impact of the bill, see the chapter. It's been pointed out here, including... Pointed sharp. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason has it, all the seemingly necessary jobs of the Agency around these matters. If we're reading this right - now we need to keep it on notice, the matter just came in, and we may not have been given an explanation for everything - it's six to ten jobs, just like that. A senator pointed out. This is at the end of the section on the assessment of effects: It is assumed that the cost of the bill will remain unchanged by law, included in the financial resources of 17 environmental issues in the current financial programme. I just wondered: " Is there so much leftover money on this team that all these employees can be added, increased by all these jobs, blown out, about six to ten standards? I've got a warning, if I'm getting this right, best. President. Could it really be that we've been so generous here at this team that it's in there, that we don't have to come up for financial support? I just want to the highest. The minister confirmed that this is expected to be included in the budget, that it would not be necessary to add financial support for this. At the same time, we must conclude that if this goes down within the budget, there is no need to impose any further penalty on the job life that is at the expense of it. V.E.G. President. I cannot help but say that today's program is a little special that there are more and less issues to weigh on the job or on the Icelanders. There's an increase in taxes, opening up all sorts of fines, extra surveillance, nonsense the system, nonsense the system. Is that what we need now? Do we not have to look at the other side of this money? Do we not need to lighten our secular and personal life ahead of us, to reduce taxes, to reduce the price of a job life? Displace from these hidden environmental taxes, which are not hidden, carbon taxes, etc.? Isn't it a matter, Mr. President, to change rhythms and disappear from these negative messages that the government is sending and going to a positive?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u52	Mr. President. I may now have a tongue about my teeth, following the talks of the Middle Class before me, since it would probably take several hours to read them carefully. But it is good for each of us to agree that greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced. There is, however, one contact surface, though it may not be more extensive. A total of some 10 million tons per year of carbon dioxide or carbon dioxide, half of which is within the Paris Convention, approximately 5 million tons. There is a 40% decrease of 23 to 3 million tons for 2030. Inside the ETS system, it's just the same. In both cases I mention here, it's possible to reach that goal. Energy - high industry is certainly inside. He is one of the main sources of pollution in Iceland in this respect, along with emissions from the most advanced wetlands, the ill-worked land, the waste and so forth. Of course, we need to work on reducing emissions from energy - consuming industry. This ETS system has worked. You can make it work better, and that's what this bill is for. Those who have objected or made it suspicious have not provided any suggestions on how to reduce emissions from energy - consuming industry. The three Aluminium countries in Iceland can do this in two different ways, i.e. pushing the carbon dioxide into water and injecting it into the ground to fall like a stone, and then there are promising technological advances in the coal summers. This together in about 10 years. may be enough to reach our goal as far as aluminium is concerned. The iron of Grundartan stays the way it is. There are no skates or technological advances. This method of manufacture is the same as it is and must be used as a determination method. The same can be said of the hot chocolate or the diatom as this is called, that is, of course, wrong, but it's just a raw chip that's being produced in Backka. The same procedure must be applied there. But it's a story and it'll do. It costs a fortune for every ton, but it is a tax that these companies have to pay for their existence. And then, of course, we can use carbon equations, and it has begun in a variety of ways, and all these companies that I have mentioned, including the aluminium, can, of course, improve it itself and put money in carbon balance. When it comes to the flight, it's like the highest. A minister mentioned, the level of carbon binding that works for the moment before the technological advances enable us to fly in a different way than using kerosene on airplanes. We're talking about battery planes of my type. It deals with various forms of biofuels, both as a mixture or as pure fuel, made by various species. We're talking about hydrogen. I'm not going to put the stitches on it, but in the same way as with the industrial industry, we have an obligation to support the system in which we are a people, because it has no one and least of it. Middle - class members pointed to a different way of doing this. So they say. And then I'd like to say a few words about what I heard here from a talk chair earlier, a sort of complaint that the struggle in climate is costing me and that's too much and that's what we call a company, etc. We have two kinds, and we might even have three kinds of problems here. We could have some other nature problem. We have to play all three of the horses, there's nothing either here, there's both. It's life by Covid-19 and the climate crisis is far more serious in the long run than any time Covid-19 and for a lot more people on earth. It would be completely wrong to think that the costs of the climate conflict are halved or cut down to a large extent while dealing with economic and other factors caused by the Covid virus. So it is not a bullshit thing to cycle the largest human emissions in Iceland, on the other hand, in gross industry and vegetation, inertism, or depravity. It's not a bullshit thing at all. It is offensive to the Icelandic people to call it a bullshit. It is also offensive to the Icelandic people to think that the two issues listed below, which are transport, are not really Covid's business, both professional and commercial projects, etc., I don't talk about easy transport. Of course, it's a Covid thing if you look further or even closer. The two existing cases, on the one hand, of the capital contract, i.e. The country and its focus, and then back-up PPP project or transport cooperation projects, are both needed to complete a transport program, provide members of the Union and implement a transport strategy. It might even be understood by reason of reason. paritaprevir If Davíð Gunnlaugsson to see that there's nothing to do about it, we're just supposed to be putting up with a Covid deal. It's a sad case like this. The virus didn't stop the job, the virus didn't stop the human life in Iceland, so we have to plan on what goes on next month and the next year. Of course, it's all a matter of Congress for the government. They are not suspicious in any way. Besides, at the end, I want one of these. To test the patience of men by referring to the windmills here, where this fine suit would come from. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson began talking about the steel in them. In fact, he forgot the concrete that goes to the foundations. He also forgot the special plastic used in windmills and rare metals that go into some of the interiors, etc., because he has no idea what he's talking about, not the slightest idea. The truth is, this has been very carefully calculated, the release of the production of windmills from the cradle to the grave. These are so - called cyclone assessions in English or life cycle analysis for large and small windmills. This, of course, is designed for 10, 20 or 30 years. All the results that are evident on the receiver show that windmills are improving. Of course, their production of these gases releases them. It will do more or less everything we are doing, but it will bring in a plus during the user time, most important of all because it is disposed of in a way that brings back all of it. I forgot what it was. A senator to mention. We produce aluminium, certainly. But we can also renew aluminium and we will produce plastics and we can restore plastics, etc. and rare minerals, which are used as well. What was presented here will not stand to the test if humans are loyal to science. The same is true of shoveling in a ditch, which is often called in a ridicule, like the one done in the old days on a carpet to shovel into a ditch or shovel out of a ditch. But the main issue is this: The IPCC, the UN International Scientific Committee, has provided data to show emissions from different types of vegetation at different latitudes and measures that have been carried out here, e.g. From swamps and then careers, the data match fine. So it's impossible to come up here in a speech chair and argue that the recovery of wetlands is some kind of cake or junk. It's not. I'm going to argue that what has been said here on windmills is wrong. What has been said here about the recovery of wetlands is wrong. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson for the speech. There's two things I wanted to come in on, okay? A senator, for example, answered some of the other things that I wanted to ask him why. A senator: If we watch the two-year economic problems of the Covid world epidemic, just to set some time point, you just have to assume that there's gonna be a two-year frame where the world's economy, especially flying and tourism, will be in real trouble, counting it is. The senator's added cost of action as presented here was significant in this form? That's the first question. In fact, the other question is very simple and has to do with it. A senator came into the area where he criticized that the Central Party had not provided suggestions on reducing the emissions of the greenhouse gases. Then I'd like to ask. A Parliament: Does it matter where the world's greenhouse gas emissions take place?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u54	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer. So I take the second question first: Of course it doesn't matter where emissions take place. We have these five large factories, and we've had them all these years, and they come out very similar to other factories. Now I'm not talking about the power production, just the factories myself. Then, of course, the electricity production comes in more, and it's relatively green here, but it's not in China, let's say. No one's made comments that these factories are standing here for the next few years, but they do have to take part in reducing emissions by some means. That's what happens to the studios, that's a good thing. It may also be possible for an aluminium in this way to sell at a price better than any other aluminium. Even so, they are under obligation to reduce emissions by all means. The world is cruel sometimes. What's the value of extra costs? Sure. But the fight against climate is not free, and it cannot be slacked off. If this means e.g. Increased airport prices, $10 on something that costs $500, that's what it's got to be. In no way can we make the holiday or the flight from sharing in this work at expense.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A Ari Guðmundsson for excellent answers. It was a pleasure to get an answer, I tried to ask the highest. The prime minister of this question not long ago, whether the minister thought it was important where the release occurred, but I did not get the answer to that question at that time. But I am grateful for this clear answer. Then I'd like to see that we in the Central Party have regularly pointed out that it would be wise to increase the production in our country, support the domestic industry, and so forth. I think the answer to the major industry's disappearance is partial, as it is necessary to watch more than just the emissions of the plant itself; of course, the electricity production has to be watched as well. Hv. A member of the Parliament came to the website whereby he identified the biographer as a biographer, in relation to windmills or windmills, and the electricity production must be taken into account when considering the total release of aluminium production at home compared to China. If we narrow this thing down and say that there is an option for a certain Chinese cell to produce 500,000 tons in Iceland, it would be run in Iceland. A senator that would be more effective in terms of total greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u56	Mr. President. The questions now become dramatic. Would I be happy to move 500,000 tons of aluminiums from China to Iceland? Oh, my goodness, I've never thought about it. What I do know, though, w. A senator is certainly that we need to increase the domestic industry, as he says, and the domestic activities of many different types.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u57	... less emissions?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u58	Energy - high industry comes from a variety of sources. It doesn't have to be an aluminum plant, it doesn't have to be a metal plant, it doesn't have to be another cold metal plant called. In fact, we need to remember how much this silica is used on Backka. It is used in solar cells, which is actually very positive. But the point is, we're producing a X megawatt of green electricity. We decide for ourselves how to use it, in a data plant, what comes out of all kinds of Icelandic innovations, whether we allow here some kind of metal industry or other kind of energy - efficient industry like Becromal. No one criticizes Becromal because it has very low levels of pollution, etc. I'm also going to remind us ourselves that the big business under Icelandic law is the industry that uses 17 megawatts or more. So this is a question I don't trust to answer unless I'd like to see anything other than this 500,000-ton aluminium from China and try to get it into the lump that would be the equivalent of a valuable creation in some other way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u59	A respectable president. One half shys away from a man who seems to know everything, at least speaks to the rest of us that no one knows anything but reason. Senator. A little special approach from this platform. Of course, the Senator didn't answer the question he was asked earlier, if he thought it better to produce 500,000 tons of aluminum in China or Iceland, so I'm going to ask him again. Which would be better for the environment to produce in Iceland or China? Then I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he can inform me of how much wetlands in Iceland release. The Senator seemed to be able to tell us about it just before. Then I would like to ask the senator if it is better or environmentally friendly to generate electricity by force of water or windmills. Fourth, I'd like to ask the senator if he thinks it is possible to use positive motivation, such as. to reduce taxes, reduce budgets, reimbursement costs to aluminium companies, or simply to those who buy cars to encourage the use of environmentally friendly solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u60	Mr. President. I have to admit that I didn't get the last question, so I'm asking permission to ask that question outside the hall. I'm sorry if the Senator thinks that, because I was giving a speech here, and he criticized the Central Party, that they think I know everything. I know a long way from now on. But I know more than my son, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, e.g. About mills, their construction, their use, their wetlands, and their extensions because I have studied them very carefully because of my work. But let it go. I hate talking like that. Is it better to produce aluminium in China or Iceland? Of course, it's better to produce in Iceland. Isn't it? I thought I answered that in my first answer. Wetland is guessing of emissions because the pain is that Iceland's wetlands are less than old. It begins around 1946 and is still active, so we do not know very well how much is released as a whole. The guess is 51⁄210 million tons. What we do know, however, is that the figures obtained by precise measurements of the failures of wetlands production, and let us say even different kinds of wetlands, because it also exists, fit the international figures used by scientists to measure over heads with the recovery of wetlands. Then I have to pray. A senator to ask me again the last question.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u61	V.E.G. President. This is interesting because of what. A senator has no idea, he doesn't know what is going to happen in Iceland. There are some speculations, as the senator correctly said, about how much it releases, yet it is so important and must be taken into the equations, even though a senator has no idea, has some bullshit here on a speaker as to how much this pollutes. I asked the senator if he didn't think it would be acceptable to use positive motivation to encourage companies and people to deal with climate problems, e.g. by reducing taxes, giving a discount of public fees to those who use environmentally friendly solutions, choosing environmentally friendly cars, other tourism, or whatever financial investments, that companies which invest in technology to reduce environmental impact are encouraged, e.g. a discount of taxes or fees. That's what I asked him. A senator about my last question. I also asked him if it would be better to produce electricity by force or windmills, since the senator is a coherence of windmills, he must be also about water force. That's why I ask if it's better for Iceland to increase the use of hydropowerists and possible geothermals, anyway, instead of watching windmills as it seems to be popular these days.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u62	Mr. President. I'm just going to be righted because when I said 5 to 10 million, I didn't just have the wetlands, I had another plant that would release it. But I just remind myself of what I was saying. We have an idea for the overall situation. If we just take the lower number, 5 million, it's the same thing as everything else that falls under the Paris convention. And that, of course, would mean, even if it were only 5 million, that it needs to be counteracted. [[Up front.]] So I give little for the words that were given here that I had no idea what I was talking about. [[Up front.]] Lower taxes? Yes, yes, we will, for example. ... abouta car shop. Raise taxes. Yeah, yeah. You see, it's a method that is used everywhere, not only to add green taxes but also to tax appeals, and that's exactly the way we do it. With regard to wind and water sources, Iceland's water sources can be increased in its current activations by hundreds of megawatts, both using increasing flows and changing the magazines in the turbins. This can be done and will be done because land induction has spoken about it. With wind power it is in itself, I don't say very environmentally, but well environmentally, and wind gardens leave little tracks, it's easy to remove them. This is not the case with hydrolytics. I'm sure I'd like to look at both options, but everything should be in the frame plan and everything should be under a particular process which means that we're working on it, whether there are more hydro-engineers, geotherapists, or wind power workers, in accordance with the energy we need so that we know what we're going to do with it, and then we're going to do it under an overall organization so that there's not some kind of jungle law that controls energy in Iceland in any area.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u63	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. Councilmen for today's discussion on this important matter. There are a few things I would like to come on that may help me to understand some of the points that have been discussed here. If I start with questions and questions about the cost, the bill says that the EEA's rising costs for the bill are expected to be about 45 million. A k., which is not six to eight employees. It's more like three to four, probably three. We already set in 2020, and that's in budgets, two and a half places to the Agency to face projects we knew were coming on a climate level and because of various other projects carried out by the Agency. However, the bill also anticipates the increase in land - healing costs and forestry because of factors that are primarily involved in researching the emissions of greenhouse gases from the land, whether they are economics, wetlands, or what they are. There are, if I remember correctly, I forgot the bill in my seat, about 48 million. I think we can agree on that, if we take this latter part of the land healing process and the wooding industry, that it is natural for us to consider greatly strengthening the research that really prepares what Iceland's land really releases. We just don't have enough information about it. It applies to wetlands, but it also means wetlands, e.g. Lands are in place. With the evidence of a weapon, we can more readily take up the discussion of where to reduce emissions and where we will be able to bind. However, we know that there will be a great deal of emissions from wetlands, and we know that measures to bind carbon, both by agricultural and forestry, will help climates. We all agree on that. The same is true when we shovel into ditches, we're reducing what would otherwise have been. A little more about the cost and whether the bill will bring an increase in the cost of an enterprise. The companies who have to buy reservations according to the ETS system as it is today will continue to have to do so, so there is, of course, a cost there. When I came to my counter at the expense of earlier, I was not talking about it. This is to reduce the total number of sources in order to be more motivated to attack technology, and it works in all the European Economic Areas. Here, too, were given license privileges. It is assumed that the EEA can charge the release fees sufficient for about half the cost. The same source is in current law, so this in itself is not a change. Then, too, it came about by means of day - to - day permission. These same sources are in current law, so there are no changes. And then I think we need to make a clear distinction as to whether a day's court warrant is the cost of a company or whether a day's fines are being applied. They are not likely to be used if the companies are doing their job in those areas where it is possible to set a day's work. There's a big difference. I had advanced research, and I wanted to take a special recovery of wetlands because wetlands are very often in our discussion. It has, among other things, been identified as "the true God, " and is" the God of all creation. " it is pointed out that we lack research to help us appreciate the real extent of the release that will be there and what we can gain from reentering the canal. We are actually there knowing that there will be disposal, and we know that if we shovel into the canals, we will make a difference. Of course, emissions are reduced and are closer to being what they are under natural conditions. There may be fluctuations, emissions, or bindings, depending on the individual circumstances and even between years of age. I think that putting extra funds on land healing is a positive result of us getting more information about what wetland's recovery will bring. I think we can all agree on that. As mentioned, in the bill, this cost is stated to be within the financial resources of the topic field. When the last financial plan was made, we did as a good housewife or housewife does, trying to look ahead to the future in order to see what cost it was that we had to show up this year and the next year and thus assume that we could cover the extra expenses we knew would come about. I'd like to mention one more thing about the nonrefundable source, which is, "Why do we have unrecountable sources over our heads? " Someone might ask: " Why do the companies have to be free of charge? It's just a very reasonable question. Why not just pay for everything they pollute? The answer is that it is being tried to prevent what is called a carbon spill, i.e. that industrially move to areas, called China, which could offer an environment that would be more favorable to the economy. Therefore, these non-profit sources are put into the Order Job, trying to prevent companies from moving off the European Economic Area in this regard. I think it's very important in this discussion of all that we're on this bill to look primarily at putting here in law the agreement that Norway and Iceland have been working on with the European Union, i.e. detoxification aims. I hear it from all the members of the council here that they think it's important that we reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and that's where we set shrinking goals. We are making the setting up, in effect, the way we discern in which we are reaching these contractions. The bill is not about the precise implementation of action. That's what makes a climate operation plan. It was published first by this government of 2018 and we're reevaluating it now and we've been doing it in our last semester. There have been discussions about motivation and positive inducers and there's an example in the Action Programme. will explain the possible positive motivations to attack, and there will be plans to attack them. On the basis of the 2018 Action Programme, we've attacked the whole population with such motives, as some of them. The senators were calling here, e.g. Intensifications for decommissioning the value tax from electrical vehicles or metal cars or other environmental vehicles are strengthened to raise financial resources against private sources in building fast-loading stations, etc. It is very important in my opinion that we continue with this catalyst system and can take advantage of it beyond what we have been doing, which has been primarily in transportation or road transport, and that we also use in the fishing, agriculture, and construction industry, that there are exactly positive incentives for the transition in technology that many members of the council came in here. It is certainly a work in progress, but in this bill it is not an accurate process of such events but, as I say, it is about the goals of the recession and the dissociation of how we recognize how we live up to our international commitments. Here, too, was mentioned by a single whale. A senator estimated that 1990 is the basis for all these calculations. In fact, all the issues involved in the agreement with the European Union aim to 2005 in the measures taken, although 1990 is behind them. I'm gonna mention this because 1990 was in some way an unfortunate year for Iceland. Of course, Iceland can't get some special year that other nations don't have, all nations must pay at the same date. I'd like to mention in particular that there are special circumstances in Iceland in the EU that are agreed on by Iceland, Norway and the European Union. Therefore, we are receiving a requirement of 29%, not the maximum, in some countries, which is 40%, because we have already been able to achieve a lot of results, especially when it comes to the production of electricity and heat. It also asked whether it was a mistake to go with the EU and Norway. I think it's not a mistake, because we're here, first of all, sharing with the nations of the world that have one of the greatest ambitions to reduce emissions and that goal we all agree with, I hear in the House of Congress. We are like this, because the companies have been very busy here for discussion, creating the same system for companies in Iceland and among companies in Europe. I haven't heard Iceland's industry complain of being inside this joint European network or professional society or other groups. We must not forget, too, that in general, all work action in reducing emissions is very important, not just in the immediate future, but in the long future. It is action that will contribute well to the economy in the long run. I want to thank you again very much for the discussion and finally say that we face tremendous challenges when it comes to climate. We have to reduce emissions. We know that. That requires rules and setting, and both are given by means of this bill. For a contraction, we need action, as has been introduced, in the process of action at the Environment Ministry for a very broad cooperation with other departments. When we consider the cost of our noses, I sometimes forget to look at it as a national advantage of taking action and reducing short and long - term emissions, especially in the long run. Also, we must not forget that it is a matter of course, of course, of course, to keep sea conditions in the climate, even in the times in which we are now living with the worldwide crown virus epidemic. There is little more important than that we can speed up projects that will result in success in reducing emissions and increasing binding as rapidly as possible. I just want to say in the end that future generations will look to our decisions now. These decisions need to be for the sake of climate.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u64	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for his second speech. There are two things I want to come on. On the one hand, it turns to the number of new employees. The document says it's a seven and a half rank value. In fact, I did not notice at the first lecture that a part of them is in land healing and forestry, but the dot is the same; this bill seems to require a considerable additional work for the public. These are seven and a half standards, and they will then reduce according to two years after this effect, as stated in the bill, which corresponds to the work of four experts for two years, but the annual cost of operating will be one to two standard values. So some part of the work is done in two years, but for the next two years it's seven and a half places, just as it's listed in the bill. But the question I wanted to make to the highest level. A minister is whether to reduce the extent of the reduction in the total number of emissions to tons, available at this time point, i.e. each time the number of the so - called free releases will be reduced.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u65	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. For the non-remuneration sources, the change over the course of the period over the course of ten years will be 2.2% instead of the reduction to 1.74%. I think it's about 6 million clearances. It's on the bill, I can't quite remember it to ten. That's what's worked out, and it's natural to reduce them. But it also counts that this is done at a reasonable pace.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u66	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I did a very informal calculation here on my way up to a punk, based on the price specified in Article 9. The bill, that cost for each ton of emissions should be equivalent to the average price of emissions in the European Economic Areas as it is in a year period ending on July 31st, etc. Before 2020, that is 3,025 k. For every ton. If we aim at 6 million tons, it's 18 billion that come to account for these enterprises on a different basis. I would have thought, at some point, that there was a reason to specify an additional 18 billion costs to several companies. This is what I was reminding me of and criticizing in my speech. I thought I'd skate pretty easily past the cost of employment. Although additional work within the public system of the EEA, followed by wood and land healings, as shown in the bill, is well dosed in, the address is missing in the sector, and 18 billion is a serious number that cannot help but be taken into account in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u67	V.E.G. President. I have no doubt that the calculations were correct for the 6 million, but it's in the whole system, so it's not just Iceland as I understand it, and I think I'm sure I'm correct. What I wanted to say in the end in this counter is that it's my feeling that we've been able to talk a little bit about the government's costs, especially the need to expand our research on what we're getting out of the country but also what we're tying to. Hence, it is important that we be able to achieve a common understanding of its importance. But back to that as a boy. A senator came to bring these companies. The companies we're talking about here are the ones on this so-called leak list that's trying to stop the carbon leak. Not nearly all of the companies that hear under the ETS system. It's just some of them. And there are some of the companies in Iceland who hear it. So the 18 billion, if correctly calculated by then. A senator, in turn, is for the system, based on the information I have in my hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u68	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalise the commitment and pollution laws on plastic products. The main objective of the bill is to implement the European Parliament and Council Directive (EU) 2019/904 from 5 June 2019 to reduce the impact of certain plastic products on the environment. The Government Treaty states that a long - term campaign against single - use plastics will be attacked with special emphasis on preventive measures and is involved in this important way. The bill was written at the Environment and Resource Ministry and was presented following an open introduction procedure in the Council's consultations in December. The directive (EU) 2019/904 covers about 20 single-use plastic products. The main products found on beaches are products that have shown that waste on Europe's shores is 80885% plastic, with half of which half of the disposable plastic products and items linked to hunting by 27%. The directive is aimed at supporting the production of recycling economy and reducing waste production by supporting the use of sustainable and multi-use products rather than for single-use products. The bill suggests that the directive will become a main policy introduced by a change in commitment practices and pollution laws. This is done on the basis of the laws on the load bags that are thought to fit in with the bill. By doing this, it contributes to the simple and transparent design and use of existing fields of law. The directives of the bill also agree that the objectives of the law, such as providing healthy living conditions for the country, protect the values of a healthful and uninjured environment, prevent or reduce water emissions and prevent waste from forming in order to protect the environment. V.E.G. President. The primary objective of this bill is to reduce the impact of plastic use on people's environment and health as well as to arouse consumers to consider the consumption and environmental effects of plastics, to reduce the use of disposable plastic products, and to support the use of multi-use products in the breath cycle economy. Several measures are expected to achieve the desired results. First, the bill forbids the introduction of certain disposable plastic products, such as disposable plastic cotton bats, knives, dishes, oil pipe, and balloon sticks, as well as food containers, drinking vessels, cups, and plastic glasses. Exceptions are made if products are classified as medical instruments. Then, in the bill, you will be forbidden to post products made of plastic that are decomposed by oxidation. It is plastic, which has sometimes been called oxo-plastic, and has products of such plastics, such as carrier bags, flocked to bed on the market in recent years, but its nature is breaking into microbubbles that are harmful to health and environment and is growing internationally difficult. It is suggested that regulations not to place these specific disposable plastic products in the market will be gained in value of July 3, 2021. Second, the bill suggests that free disposable food containers, cups, and plastic bottles intended for drinks and food intake are forbidden from the respective containers, as is common in fast - food containers. The purpose is to reduce the use of these products, direct companies and the general public, toward comparable multi-use options. At the same time, the tax is suggested to be visible on box knowledge. It is suggested that the arrangement be administered on July 3, 2021. It is comparable to the law's validation of a load. Third, the bill suggests the type and composition of certain disposable drinking containers. On one hand, the use of a single-use glass container with a stopper or a plastic closure is permitted only if the cap or closure is attached to the container while planning to use it. This is to prevent stoppers and caps from leaving containers in the field. We all know what it's like. Exceptional measures are glass or metal drinking containers. It is suggested that this law take effect on July 3, 2024, three years later than its bounds, which can be assumed to be compatible standards for these products by European standards. However, it is required that single-use plastic bottles for drinking products should be made up of minimal fractions of re-use plastic. According to the directive, the so-called PET-plastic bottles contain a minimum of 25% reused plastic from 2025 and from 2030 all bottles that are included in the pack contain at least 30% recycled plastic. The majority of the single-use flasks that are now used under sodas and similar drinking products are made from PET-plastics. It is suggested that the regulations be adopted on July 3, 2021, but that this will be further implemented in a Regulation, in accordance with the regulations of the directive. It is also suggested in the bill that the EEA will establish a regular surveillance programme by implementing the guidelines for plastic products. It is assumed that the EEA will be allowed to stop the marketing of products until errors are corrected and that the Agency will also be permitted to lay the government guilty on an individual or legal entity that violates the law's regulations. Finally, it is suggested that the law be supported for the regulations on plastic products, including for the markings of single use plastic products, the type and composition of disposable drinking containers and the details of the collection for recycling of plastic fishing waste for further implementation of the directive. It is also suggested that waste management laws be supplemented with regulations that require the preparation of public waste waste waste waste waste waste materials and waste waste materials to be taken into consideration by the EEA especially for information and education on plastic products. According to the Ministry Department, the bill will not result in a costly impact on government funds. The bill has fallen to increase the protection of the environment. Single - use plastic products are particularly serious problems with marine waste, resulting in serious risks for marine ecosystems, biodiversity and the potential health of humans. There is also an image of plastic pollution that can affect the image of tourism and fishing. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject and suggested that it be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u69	A respectable president. We're here on bill to legalize the laws on loyalty practices and pollution control, about plastic products. This bill, I think, is very important, but it may not cover a wide enough area. It is only 13 pages, but the first climate bill is more than 40 pages. What I like about this is that plastic use is being reduced, and one of them is reducing waste disposal to water. We also know that one of the major problems with plastics in water is washing clothes made of plastic materials. Remember the particles, those that are not really visible, go to sea, and, unfortunately, end up having food for fish and other sea animals. Then there's aegantian amount of plastic, which accumulates on the shores and we've observed, for example. In the Pacific Peace Land. It is a matter of cleansing and how we will live up to that cost. Of course, it would be a great business plan for students in the summer that we could map the beaches and clean plastics. But what I'm most concerned about in this is the cost. If we cut off plastic use, shop costs. Then I'm thinking about those at the lowest wage and the pensions, it could be a huge cost for those individuals, and they just don't have anything to do with it. The question is how to deal with it. Is that in the talk at the highest? Minister how to make sure that this is not the case with the one to be taken least?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u70	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for a good inquiry. The Senator here rolls up microplastic pollution, which is just about to happen. for the washing of plastic clothes. We've had it done at the Environment Ministry on where the most of the microspheres would come from. Shows that this is one of the factors, absolutely correct, but most comes from tirebikes. There is a gap that will occur, and it will go into the drainage systems, depending on how they are built up or in the surface water. The question is, How can a solution be found to prevent this microplastic from being passed to sea? There are various ways in which you can do this, e.g. You can filter the top water so that the microplastic is removed, have the sets, and any other parts. I hope that this week, with a bill for changing the reserve law, we're beginning to discuss how we can support the really needed seminars. That is where we look for even the right time. it can be attack on the object involved in microplastic contamination. The high cost of consumers is mainly the expense that consumers can avoid by using many products. It may be good, as with the plastic bags, that the price is definitely set on the product in an effort to stimulate the use of reused products. That's what all of us can do, so I'm not really worried that this is gonna be a problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u71	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers the answers, but I have to disagree just because the cheapest products on markets, frozen products, and microwave products are usually in plastic containers. These are usually the cheapest products in the camp, so they are often bought from those who should, in particular, be given because they are in the lowest wages and pensions. It's by this eating both inferior food, I'd say, and using most of these plastic lips. If something new replaces the plastic wrappings, causing these products to grow in value, this will catch up with them. That is why we need to make sure that, as we know that those who are in the worst position can afford to buy better products and more wholesome ones. Then there's something else I've noticed, too. A question about the cost and the inability to use this funds in cleaning up these areas is found in coastal plastics and large amounts of goods and plastic products. I'd say we're gonna make sure that those who produce the product and use it make sure it's clean.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u72	V.E.G. President. I think it's important for this bill to remember that, first of all, there are bans on a certain number of disposable plastic products, where there are local goods. However, only a single use container, cups, glasses, and so on is being used, since I believe it is easy to carry another kind of product that is not made of disposable plastic. There is so much of what we find on the beach, and the goal is to reduce it. We already have an excellent experience with the bill that was approved here last year on the plastic bags. Plocks that are out to pick garbage now talk about the loss of plastic bags, especially the small ones from the vegetable ward. The crown had a month or two report that the number of plastic bags had greatly reduced. Then comes the second. A senator also entered a package that is often made of plastic, and I'll only deal with it. In fact, this bill is not addressed, but it is through the pipes that the responsibility should be placed on producers. It is to place the cost into the so - called manufacturer's responsibility that we have on many products through Exploitation Fund. This is because it is the responsibility of the manufacturer of the manufacture of this product, it is due, and the manufacturer eventually has to pay for using plastic if he chooses to do so. [[The president calls.]] This is intended as a means of searching for other routes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u73	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. There are two things I would like to come in on. One involves the costs and the other to the induction as such. First of all, the cost. That is what the bill on page 19. 9, to page 6, which deals with assessments of impact, that the cost of monitoring is likely to be paid from a government fund. The surveillance is outlined in Unit 1.7. which says, by permission of the President: The EEA shall include: 1 monitor with marketing, dispensing, markings and type and combination of plastic products, scr. Thirty-seven. d•g, in a uniform manner in the whole country [...] I'd like to ask the highest. A minister has checked this out and evaluated the costs behind it. This is in harmony with all of the country. We who live in the country know that this is the cost of monitoring telecommunications and may be greater if the home station is the home office of the Food Agency. The other thing I wanted to ask the highest. Minister to the court is the law of 10th. par., which says: This law is set up to implement a European Parliament and Council Directive (EU) 2019/904 from 5 June 2019 to reduce the impact of specific plastic products on the environment. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if this is a complete induction or if there are any points in the bill, what to say, from home. [[Up front.]] V.E.G. A minister understands what I'm going through. These are not many articles, so if any of the articles on the bill are not what I allow to call clean induction, it should not be complicated.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u74	V.E.G. President. I thank a senator very much for this input into the discussion. With regard to the costs of monitoring, this is mainly a cost at baseline, which has been estimated at 61.7 million divided over three years, something like that, so it is well overcome. Then about the induction, it's a clean induction. But I have to tell you, we do not bring in all the directives by means of this bill. What's not in the bill but in the directive is the responsibility of the manufacturer I was talking about earlier and is about the responsibility of the manufacturer for the kind of package he chooses to use. As you may know with Exploitation Fund, there have been a number of products paying off on them, which, when they are reaching the package and handling it at the end, are already being accomplished. We know that system. That part of the directive is not created here, and the reason is simply because we thought we needed a little more time to take that point. Then you might ask, " Why are you bringing this here right away? ' The answer to this is that this will take effect in July next year, and we believe that there is an important time for the public and the business to adapt to these changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u75	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. All I have to do is celebrate the fact that this project and the total cost, divided over three years, is estimated to be 61.7 million, that there are more than 2 million per year corresponding to the cost of the right person's work. I'd like to be glad that it seems that it would be a good idea to maintain the costs of the check-up and hope that the process will be built in as much as any human trust in implementing a burdensome rule like this on a man - made basis for three years and then nothing after that. This isn't exactly a question. I just want to commend a minister for this operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u76	President. I thank the senator for participating in this important discussion on this subject. I know that he will direct it fast and well through the committee, ending in very important matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u77	A respectable president. We're talking about this great bill on loyalty practices, pollution control, plastic products. As with the bill above, this is EU bill. That will not be the case when you examine some of the articles on the bill from the pages of 1,◯12. par. it is the EU in all articles, and it does not have to be a bad issue, but it does seem a little strange that we should do no better ourselves. But this bill is taking on big business, such as fishing waste, which is the best case, as we have seen here. We've noticed that cleansing has been done in zones, e.g. on Beach, there's been a giganticality of plastic. Sadly, as we have seen, we are basically drowning in plastic. We have whole plastic islands, and you have actually seen rivers of endless plastics, all but plastics running to the sea. In an effort to stop plastics, you have seen amazing ideas of inventors trying to get it out of the riverbed and out of the water and clear it out. Happily, we have already begun. But I think we need to do much better. I just hope this is the first step because we're getting really hurt. And the most dangerous of all of this is nanoplastic particles that do not appear to be visible and appear to be an enormous amount of driving. It is great to take the single-use container. We know at the council that after the Covid epidemic struck, we got the food in plastic bats, basically getting the heart for the heart. It is an enormous amount of plastic that comes with both disposable plastic plastics, bottles, knives, and so on. This is incredibly large, but fortunately, we are at least trying to cope. I also realize, as we were discussing earlier, that we have plastics in extraordinary amounts and particularly under fast food, disposable plastics under fast food, and frozen dishes. One of the things we know is that it is a gastric plastic contamination, which is a plastic tray used under a microwave meal. This, however, is something that needs to be found new solutions on because, as I say, these are the cheapest plastic banks, the cheapest raw product that usually comes from a huge number of food productions, and unfortunately, it is, I think, far from being the most healthy thing humans can get. The best thing is, of course, fresh groceries. But I support the bill with all my mind and think it's just a great first step, but I'm also always worried that when we start off at such an cost, the cost will be out of the question and too much for the least of us. I'm still hoping for a deep, heartfelt hope that I will not.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u78	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Two things came to my mind, which made me come up here and answer the question. A senator. On the one hand, what he said in return to the highest degree. Minister, i.e. All these plastic clothes and what he correctly pointed out is that now that we avoid touching each other or things that others may have had, we do what? We use a single-use container, a single-use tool, which is, in many respects, a form of waste, that is correct, but it at the same time solves certain problems. It is also accompanied by waste and certain toxins, of course, that they are always washing up and all. But I wondered if it would be right to go that way, to forbid so much of these products, whether or not we have given up teaching us how to use and associate with plastic bottles, plastic discs, knives, and the like, because it's called disposable, it's not always for single use. What will replace it? A lot of what's offered today is completely useless. When you're going to try to use some equipment like that. Bambobus, or something like that, may even result in disaster. This is about the packaging or these plastic products. The other is whether the senator can agree with me that it is important to encourage the use of more organic substances in production. We can see, for example. The wool produced in Iceland, a fur, the product of skin from skin is much environmentally environmental if they land in the ocean but a piece of plastic, I would think. It may be similar, I don't know it, so I'll say it. But we may be to look at such solutions, sharp. Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u79	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, I can totally agree with him. With clothes on, I've, for example, got it. We're worried we've got so much plastic. In the latest research I saw, scientists are taking the bottoms out of glaciers to see if we would find microplastics in them. The answer was yes, and we are talking about years back, even decades. At the same time, we also see an advertisement on yogurt that suddenly appears in cardboard. It works, which used to be in plastic. So anything is possible. You've seen other things too. What really impressed me was one of the factors where it was shown that a food dressing could be eaten. The whole thing could be eaten. There was nothing left, the contents were eaten and the packaging. I mean, this kind of invention is just brilliant. If we could get and encourage young inventors to try to find solutions like this, we're in good shape. I also think it would be good solutions to go back in time, to think of old days when we had milk in glass bottles or in iron bridges simply. True, the iron bridges were industrialized, but glass was used for a long time. Then we went to the cardboard, and then we're bringing all kinds of plastic containers, so we have solutions, just a question of how much it costs and how we're going to transfer them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u80	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answers. The next thing I'd like to think about with the senator is, maybe we're still here. To get close to these things in the wrong way. We're going to a store today, and if we forget about the reusable bag at home made of materials, plastics, or anything like that, we'll pay about 30 bucks. for the cargo bag at the store, a load of carriers that could bring back and forth. What if we did this differently? That every time we brought the baby bag with us, we got 30 bucks. A discount of our account instead of taking this negative approach to charging us for this bag. This would be a catalyst, a positive incentive to take the bag with them to the store, and for many, this might mean something in the future, being able to get some sort of small discount, a few crowns, when they bring this bag with them. The other is whether we should use it - instead of urging people to stop using skin in production, fur, as many or any organization do - to encourage more from such products where the product is derived, whether it is wool or skin, to encourage use of it, because this must be better, at least if we look at the sea and the environment, because it is a product of animals that are much faster broken down in nature than any one that is made from a plastic bottle or something we know very well. But that's very interesting at the moment. A senator describes how to use knowledge that was previously known, but I don't know if modern man would be willing to go all that way back.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his answers. Yes, we were here with ashes in the old days, it wasn't a complicated thing. But we have other problems now. That, of course, is a brilliant idea, such as. with the plastic bags, that if we're to pay 30 bucks. for plastic bags, but let's not bring them, we'd have 15 bucks. A discount instead. How encouraging that would be! But there are other problems that arise in this situation with Covid. It's the blue plastic gloves that blow all over the place. We often have solutions that are not solutions, but we solve problems in one place and increase them in another place. Of course, that is not good. It would be brilliant if we could use things better, for example. In the skin industry and other things. He was totally killed by those who are against meat production and meat products, but the skin is naturally products just like many other things, and it's certainly far better to use it than plastic, it says itself. It doesn't take a genius to realize that it is completely broken down and does not leave behind something unnatural or damaging in the environment, as the plastic does. We have to encourage innovation. We're talking about new creation projects, such as Krista Fund and other funds, and it would be ideal for young people and others to run around with them and find solutions because we have the solution to all of this together. The question is to find them and encourage them and create an opportunity to develop them. Then I think we're just fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u82	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. We'll discuss here the bill on changing the commitment laws and pollution control, plastic products. This is, to a degree, a continuation of a case that was used for the treatment of the last council, which included the matter. was very tight in the use of a plastic bag. To make up the plastic bags, I don't remember what they're called, the thin, transparent plastic bags you've put on fruit and stuff over the years. It would be better for them to stop framing all over, in the opinion of the locks, they've been banned. It would then be a very active black market with this bag if it were still a great problem. It was noted in some places last year that I wasn't on the committee's opinion that supplied the specific issue of the environment and transport committee, which said the tribulation on the delivery of plastic bags, the obligation to be charged for them, and then to preserve their use or delivery. This case is of the same hurt. It is like the case that was handled last year. It doesn't really matter where it is, the bill is only 12 articles, and it's actually just in the validation form that is not some kind of howling idealism we are sent from Brussels in this case. I saw a pretty penable man write about it in connection with the bill that was adopted last year about the plastic bags that this was one of the most pathetic cases he would have seen recently from the Polish. Finally, he would have been glad that he was mastering plastic bags, was using them for the trash, and experienced that he was doing something to help. Then, at the council, this guardianism would come from us, which required him to do this. They would be happy to develop their own contact with the environment when it is necessary, not something that the common people desire to do, and that they have goals in themselves. Of course, it is very special that someone is strictly forbidden by the law to give something he has. There may be other examples, but I do not know them quickly. I pointed to this in my discussion about the plastic bag business last year and pointed this out again now. Here at 5. g., under the release of a specific single use plastic product, it is said, with the permission of a president: ▪ Unable to deliver the following single-use plastic items without charge at position of sale, to be listed as the items which are forbidden and for a certain time to be administered, which may be sold and paid visible on box knowledge. Have we not reached out to the point of prescientism to forbid people or companies and business partners to give something up? It will be completely ruined by the old concept of buying soon, as it turns out. Back to your precariousness and carelessness. To begin with, of course, all of us want to be careful and minimized. It's very annoying to see blue Q-tips on the shores of the country and so forth, and wonder how bad it is going through the toilet, no more than wet dry and dry hands. But there's an intense prescientism in this, so I'll say it again. I experience this as if someone were trying to put a Band-Aid on some wound or experience, and at the same time, people such as the hot fire avoid discussing the major problems in the plastic environment, which is that release in the ocean, which is by far the largest place in Asia and Africa. For example, just how far men are going to reach out to make sense to us is here in Count 5. a type called the type and composition of single-use drinking containers, which says, by permission of the president: Using a drinking container with a stopper or plastic cap as detailed in the Regulation, sr. 5. g., is only allowed to be marketed if the cap is lost or completed while planning to use it. No question about it, it is a superintendent who writes this fine text. There are many of these cases in the text, and it's all somehow the same hurt, and now it's time to make sense in our dealings with the city and with the plastic devil. Other things I wanted to mention here are things that have to do with cost. V.E.G. The minister answered my objection earlier and said that the cost was estimated to be 61⁄2 million accumulated over a period of three years, and I welcome it if that's the case. It will then be well escaped from seven and a half standards that will be established by the EEA and other bodies of the Environment Ministry in relation to the case discussed before. According to a report in Article 6, over the impact assessment, the cost of observation is likely to be paid from the government fund. It refers to page 1 of chapter 7. which says that the EEA should include monitoring for the marketing, dispensing, markings and formulations of plastic products in the whole country in agreement. So says section 6, for the evaluation of influence, by permission of the president: It can be expected that the legislation will follow the EEA's increased work for monitoring plastic products on the market. Increased budgets for the Agency are expected to meet the costs of the business involved. If it is, however, that it will not be more expensive than 61.7 million, which is still money, that is positive. But we ask for a conclusion, I'm afraid there won't be a conclusion. Based on the work that obviously went on to identify this bill, so I'll say, by permission of the President: It is considered likely that the lactation will have negligible effect on the sex status. The legislation is not directed specifically to one sex above the other and it can be assumed that the plastic products involved in the Law are used to the same extent by women and men. It is not possible to claim that this has a direct effect on the sex status, and it may be expected that the effect may be consistent between the sexes if all the plastic products involved in the legislation. There is only one product involved in the legal process, and the vast majority of buyers are expected to be of the second sex. - It talks about menstrual products. Of course, considering the analysis on the sex effect of the bill, I don't think it's acceptable that the cost-effect is no more than to indicate that an increase in budget to the Agency will be expected to be subject to the additional cost of business. This may be one step in a longer road trip. It was the plastic bags last year called single-use. I'm so lucky, I don't think it's in vain with me, a plastic bag that I'm about to bring home from the store end of the garbage can and keep waste in its usual direction. That's how I think it's in most homes. I think there's got to be a thing in selling plastic bag rolls right now, after it was tight. But what I wanted to do about this being part of a longer road: it was the plastic bags last year, and now it's the disposable food containers, forks, and other items that are listed in a fairly long list of 5. "Grets for drinking products, sucking pipes, dishes, silverware, and other things. " What will be the third step? Will then be, for example. has attacked films that are used to wrap food? Will the environmental impact of these films be viewed narrowly, or will they be taken into account as long as food lives are maintained in relation to what others are? This needs to be viewed in a larger context, and at the moment I'm afraid that there's a lot of emphasis on something that in itself doesn't matter much, but it makes people more comfortable to not have to deal with the big problems. Today, there are so many other factors in this political environment that the way to avoid the complex and big discussion is to put a patch on one of the smaller points. I'm afraid that's a significant factor in this case. I'm afraid that the next step, the third step in this tour, if we call this step two, will make the real negative environmental impact possible. I'm not gonna keep this for a while. I can't wait to get the case treated on the environment and transport committee and to thank you again at the highest level. Minister for the answers to those questions earlier. It will be intriguing to see the answers to the questions that will arise as soon as the matter is addressed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u83	Mr. President. I should probably start by acknowledging that I'm not particularly into plastic as a subject. Knowing the value of old trade and goods are the materials used previously for the same purpose; leather, wood, metal, marmalade, and thus, a lot more attractive, perhaps more remarkable. I must admit, though, that plastic is practical and is part of human progress and has helped improve the quality of life. In fact, in spite of this introduction, during my college years of ridicule, I had to carry a plastic bag under my books, not a sophisticated leather bag. But it was practitioner. For a long time, I used the same Haustrak plastic bag, weighed as a plastic bag most of over five grams [5 g], but the ability to bear was incredible. A five - gram plastic bag can easily carry ten kilograms. In ancient times man had to produce a pottery that alone might weigh five pounds [5 kg] in order to store in it five pounds [5 kg] of goods. So Plast, though not being very attractive, is very practitiony, and as I mentioned earlier, has played a key role in improving the quality of life. But it is practitional in more ways than with the ability to carry, for example, that of foods stored in plastics. vegetables last much longer than foods not packed in plastics. It was Gurrý who held out television shows on gardening that first explained it to me on TV. I've been doing a lot of research since then, and it turns out to be quite right. The environmental effects of forbidding the packaging of food, e.g. Plants, inside plastics are that much more food goes to waste and instead it has to produce new ones with environmental impact, food application, flights to return food to their places, transport cars, etc. In a way, a friend of the environment is a friend, and people should be careful if they are real environmentalists, in banning this practicial stuff. What to do with plastics? Obviously not to dump it in the ocean. It's been strange, I think, to observe the discussions of plastics in Iceland that all go on, like so many times before, unfortunately, to look at the situation in other countries rather than our position, and to imagine that more and less all plastics that are used here end up in the ocean. It's not like that. Like what? paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason only came in earlier is most of the plastic that ends in the sea, which we may all be worried about, from Asia and Africa, and not just from just ten rivers, ten rivers, eight of them are in Asia, and seven of them are in Africa. They deliver about 90 percent, 88 to 2395%, of all plastics in the ocean, that ten rivers. If we are really concerned about dealing with plastic pollution at sea, is it not reasonable to start by viewing the root of the problem? Even if not one plastic shot in the ocean anywhere in Europe or in the Western world above its head from today's day on, it would have very little effect because the increase and population growth in areas that shed most plastics in the sea is so vast and it would take only one, two, at most, three years, to be back at the same place as it actually in plastic disposal in the ocean. Sadly, though, such issues as so many environmental issues are burned out to the point that they appear to be useful, and all too often they are being done by regulations and bans and even fines, even to the point that giving certain products is forbidden. I wondered, " What is the attitude of the independents in this matter? ' In fact, I thought about it in the last case too, for they only expressed themselves in one inquiry. paritaprevir Sigríður On. Andersen has not spoken up in this language, which is a specific user control case. There's no attempt to hide it, it's just coming out, it's a business of consumer management. The kingdom will now show you, good citizen, how you shall live. Independence has not been viewed as a reason to make a comment or to discuss the matter. Of course, something plastic goes to the ocean outside Iceland. But should not our goal be to prevent it? The marine exit, mentioned in this discussion, has had remarkable results in preventing plastic discharges from in the ocean. This was not done by threats of fines or new surveillance agencies. This was done by the fact that the article took shape. Today, plastic emissions from Icelandic fishing grounds are just a fraction of what they were not so many years ago. If we agree that they are an important case, we will not have to consider solutions that actually work instead of taking in an endless stream of European regulations, adding to a special interest, whether as ministers or as officials, use the opportunity, so to make the rules even more burdensome? It is now proclaimed to be a more consistent standard for European standards, so we really know what we're doing with this bill. I have mentioned earlier in a speech that we must try to look at the environmental issues in the overall context, including plastic usage. I have noted that studies have shown that one cotton bag, load bag, leftover, or release greenhouse gases of 173 plastic bags, depending on only one use of the plastic bag. As I mentioned earlier, I have used my plastic bags well and often ends up holding garbage around to return it to dumps so that it doesn't go to sea. In fact, I've had trouble with environmentally friendly bags made from corn or something like that. I don't know if I'm supposed to trace that story, but sometime when I was home alone for days, I usually ate here at the council instead of at home. So it was not quickly loaded into the garbage bag at home, but I always had coffee in the morning and in the evening and dropped the coffee grounds in the bag. And when this was starting to smuggle, and it came to empty the trash, I lifted the bag and the bottom, and all the stuff was just after the bag fell apart. It was a good thing that the bag had not come to the dump and was cut apart there, and everything had poured into the sea. We need to look at the overall picture, the overall impact of the decisions we make when we try to cope with environmental problems. It was interesting to hear a talk in Bergþór Ólason's son before how well men had been able to reproduce the bill and reproduce plastic usage. This set me on fire because I've been worried about plastics, plastics, about gender. There are, for example. Certain types of plastics that can release oestrogens and theories have been identified as having a very significant impact on human fertility. Such things need to be examined and sought if people want to use bans that may require, in some cases, forbid the use of harmful plastic materials. The same is true of toxic chemicals in the burn of plastics. What, though, is the best way to use plastics environmentally? Amazing but true, it's lighting it up, burning the plastic in a environmental way to produce energy. Now scientists have invented a way to burn plastic in a environmentally friendly way that releases less greenhouse gases and pollution than natural gas incineration. What's plastic? It's made from oil. The best way to deal with the world's plastic problems is to make sure that plastics provide all they can do for recycling, especially incineration, where they will be used to produce environmentally-friendly energy. As members of the Central Party, we have provided proposals for the construction of environmentally friendly burning stations. There have been other products here, glass, which are certainly similar in species to plastic, but there are far more environmental factors than plastics. And we always come to the same thing. When the state starts to influence the environment, I don't talk about it when it's a taxing consumer management operation like this, you need to look at the overall picture. I'm sure those senators who have studied these matters can accept its importance, and then I might be referring specifically to the reason. paritaprevir Ari Guðmundsson, who in his own opinion knows more about these matters than any other senator, at least More knowledge than I have, and as a result, I presume, more than most people have studied. I expect that when the bill goes into operation, you will like a dog. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson and others, try to fix it so that it works better than it looks now, and the overall impact of the burdensome rules being proclaimed here is seen. I have no doubt that the matter will be well treated on an environment and transport committee, and I trust it will make a great improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u84	V.E.G. President. There are few injections on this matter. I miss it, I haven't found it in the bill, to see what size you're talking about. How much of these products are being used and not used? And at the same time, relate it to a fine speech. Gunnlaugsson In this regard, the volume coming from Iceland, in view of the overall picture, was covered by how much has come from these world's major pollution nations? It's good to put this into context. I'm not trying to minimize the need to be careful and take care of the environment, but I'm thinking that what's going on here is very, very small in the big picture. I'm wondering, at least. A minister came into it in his closing words, whether we have given up, in effect, to teach people how to manage the environment, whether to teach them how to use things like plastic bags or plastic bottles and the like. I would also like to wonder, " Was it not possible to try to have some positive motivation for those who reused or re-use this disposable package, many of which are actually used as the plastic bags, they are rewarded in some way, for example? ' in stores. I also wondered, " Is it profiting from the stores selling loads or by selling them at expense or at cost? ' I don't know, I just admit it. It would be better to reward those who use such packages over and over again. Then I'll get my eyes into it, tops. President, in the dictionary that there were comments, including that the case is being introduced here before it is recorded in the EEA Convention. Given the subject of the bill, I wondered why it is done. It also says that the envelopes focus on the fact that it applies only to certain plastic products. If the highest. A minister could tell us what was going on here, that would be good. There is something special about certain products being taken out. Besides, it's really important to know what's in its place, if you think about it. Much of what has been offered so far is totally unacceptable. Then I can't let go of the subject on page 18. 9, that this legislation can be expected to follow up on increased EEA projects for the marketing monitoring of plastic products and to be expected that increased budgets for the Agency will meet this cost. What's that supposed to mean? There is an increase in monitoring and loyalty of these contributions, are these contributions directly derived from the state funds or contributions that make the companies that manufacture or import or that are users in charge of these products? There's the left board here where we can make sense and, like, well... paritaprevir Davíð Gunnlaugsson's victory was to direct his consumption, and the Independence Party follows it just like -- I'm not saying what I'm thinking. [[Up front.]] It would be almost to view this positive view and encourage the better use of these items. We should not be afraid to take the discussion about whether this method is better than others, whether it is going this way, or whether it is going the right way. We are to respect that there are differing opinions on these issues, such as most people. But I think, and I've talked many times that it's more likely to try to win or encourage people instead of trying to know what it seems to be done here. But it's probably difficult when we are in our position today to have a government that thinks they need sense rather than allow individuals and businesses to come up with solutions and save themselves. I agree with those who have spoken of it, including Yeah. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, to encourage the launch of a new creation work in Iceland to find new ways to make packages or equipment that we can use that are as useful as plastic. Similarly, we must not go along with creating something that is ultimately worse than plastic and that has greater and more environmental impact.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u85	Mr. President. Thank you. Congress members for having a discussion on these matters simply because they are very important. I hear that there is a contingency among members of Congress to reduce plastic pollution, especially to prevent it from reaching the sea. It is a satisfying and good guide for us to take even greater steps, for it has certainly been mentioned here as probably a part of a larger journey, and I really hope it is. I'd like to say something with a what. paritaprevir The Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson that all the measures and measures outlined here, as well as in other environments, must be considered to be careful not to take such action against those mentioned among the hands. I agree, because it's part of building a just society. I'd like to say, for a discussion of the products being proposed here to be banned, which are all disposable plastic products that are found largely on European shores, that there are certain local items for all of this. There are other products that are not plastic disposable. We've got a question for innovation. Yeah, we're just posting a huge amount of money into innovation in Iceland right now, so I think that question is answered. But here it also asks: Has it not worked here to help people avoid using these products? I can't see it worked. I can't see how it worked to direct people not to use these products. It has affected some, but apparently not all of them, simply because there is too much of these products in the environment. Therefore, it is taking the most common disposable products found in the natural world to avoid the introduction of these products. All products that can be replaced. It has also been asked: Are we just putting plasters on our wounds? Aren't we watching the big movie? We try to take measures to reduce plastic pollution in Iceland when we should really be looking for 90% of all plastic pollution to travel into the ocean comes from several major rivers in Africa and Asia. It is true that from there the most pollution comes, but does this justify that Iceland does not take action at home? Will it change the fact that about 70% of the cases studied are wearing plastics in your stomach, or 40◯50% of the materials in the Icelanders studied? No, it doesn't. Of course, we should set a good example and take the lead in this matter. Only in Asia, Africa, and other lands. You are absolutely correct in stating that there is widespread pollution in the environment. That is why Iceland, with me as environmental minister, has taken the lead, along with other countries, in requiring an international contract dealing with plastic pollution at sea at a global level. I think it's extremely important, and I agree with those who have pointed out today that this is an important international factor. Only at the expense. I've got to feel bad. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason because I made a mistake earlier. That was 61.7 million a year for three years. I really apologize for saying it was all over three years, but I know he's gonna forgive me, I'm sorry for this. This was the case with the surveillance. This was merely a part of the effort to analyze the impact of this bill on the sexes. I just have to say, just as it is, I'm very proud that my Ministry is attacking to identify the impact of the bill on the sex, whether the effect may differ on those of us who are of male gender, female gender, or whatever they look like. I want to agree with the members of Congress who have talked about plastic being extremely practical. Plast has precisely reduced the world's food waste. Plast has caused breakthroughs in the ability to defend products in transport, etc., since we are not talking about banning such products. We're talking about banning unnecessary plastics. We're talking about banning unnecessary disposable plastics that we don't need, but not plastics in general. That's not how we're against packing food in plastics. We are not forbidding the use of plastics to reduce waste of food or to protect goods. However, I am very pleased with the discussion that we agree to reduce this pollution. I'm convinced that the bill is a factor in our way of reducing the exact supply of the goods found in most of the natural world and being singles. Then I refer to a problem that was brought into the past with organic waste in bags torn down, that you go to the mall, and that problem disappears like dew to the sun. Thank you so much for the discussion, and I can't wait for the discussion to come back.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u86	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for coming up here and answering most of the questions raised to him. It's a good example, and I want to commend a minister for his sincerity in his struggle for the environment. All of us are concerned about the environment, but we are, of course, approaching it in different ways. But I would like to ask the highest. A minister to what I mentioned in my talk was about the quantity involved. Do we know how much this is of the plastic products there, and we're banning it? How many pounds, tons, or units of equipment that are listed there will now be eliminated from our import numbers or such? Is any of this produced here within the country? There is something else that came to mind. Are we producing some of those products within a country that will no longer be produced? Does it have any effect, perhaps on some company, decrease the job, some of that sort of thing? Or is it so small that when it comes to it, it is not important?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u87	Thank you. A senator for good questions. I'm not quite smart about what it's like with the production on it inside the country, I have to admit it. The amount of information asked is also not available, but it can be tried to find the information in the case of the Committee, of course. But this is something that is not quite clear. I would also like to mention, as we know, the wide variety of plastic products. It's used a lot, but it's natural short - lived consumers, and it doesn't make sense to use products that we end up after one or two times when we have other options that are much more environmental. I'm just saying that I think we should be able to succeed in this and see, as I said before, on this as a common project for all of us. I'll try to find out about the production of this country before I get up next week.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u88	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers and will therefore not press more on to know the magnitude, but it can be said that it would certainly have been a good thing, before such a matter was started, to realize how much is really being done and as well to know if there is any product in this country that might be involved in some way. I know there's some plastic package being made here. A lot of it's reusable, I guess not all of it, actually. However, the second thing is that we all, perhaps not all, want to protect our environment, is whether we are doing it in the right places or not. Mr. President. I don't remember what I was going to ask the Minister, but it's just gonna have to have it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u89	V.E.G. President. It is, then, question whether a minister knows what to say if he does not know what to ask him. But from what is being suggested here to prohibit the marketing of an extremely small and no production on the country, I have information about it. I just want to say, finally, in our efforts to reduce plastic pollution, we need to look to many factors. We need to look for ways to reduce the production of single-use products. We need to reduce the use of them, and we need to reduce the availability of them. Then we need to get the plastic we use, either for single use or for use, correctly at the end of the use, i.e. to recycle it. This is what we in the big film need to look to in this country, just like anywhere else.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u90	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a shape of regional transport law, No. 160/2011. The objective of the bill is to change the framework of the equation on oil transport costs, but such an equation has the objective of ensuring the availability and comparable prices of oil products intended for use in the country regardless of the location of oil products for sale. The transport balance of oil products is now being carried out by law on the normal transport costs of oil products, No. 103/1994. In accordance with the laws, the operating capacity for the transport transfer system is an oil product and is laid with a special transfer charge on imported oil products, essential to the income of the fund. The sea has a special government that handles the day - to - day business, including the day - to - day management process. to determine what constitutes the cost of transport and the handling of transport equations for sales sales. For a long time, the present arrangement has not been flawless. The Ministry requested that the management of the transport balance fund win a memo for the fund's position where indications and experiences of repairs were made. The onset of the government was that the fund was a time error, a transport pattern had changed substantially since the system was established, and the process was all too complex and costly. The most appropriate way, then, is to remove laws about the equations of oil transport and lay down the funds. Nevertheless, official support for supplying energy sources for transport in vulnerable areas would be very important and should be fully valid. Such support, however, should have a different approach, such as in the basis of a plan. This would result in significant simplifying of transport operations, as well as a more targeted way to strengthen those in need of such support. In view of this, Capacent's advisory company made a specific assessment of the build-up effect of reducing oil transport reserve and to which other support measures would be needed to ensure that the procedure did not lead to adverse effects on farm conditions and development. Capacent's conclusion included Based on the lack of high costs for land fuel distribution, the large quantity of oil companies and the reduction of transport would likely not have a significant impact on fuel prices in much of the region. This could mean, however, that the country's largest distribution society would have to increase prices beyond other societies, but it would be more likely that places would be affected that had at least the size and the highest cost of transport. However, it would be important for all the people of the country to have access to fuel, so it would not be desirable for them to be distributed to small remote places. To prevent this, there would be a need for support for parties who would be willing to perform services where there would be no alternative. The main element of this bill is based on the views attributed here, and the bill suggests that the restrictions on the transport costs of oil products will be eliminated. Thus, the transport reserve for oil products will be laid down, and the transport tax on oil products will have to be stopped. Instead, local transport legislation is suggested to improve for the support of commercial oil products in rural areas. Such support would be funded by an increase in oil products and would be provided by special transport grants due to the sale of oil for domestic use in areas where there is a lack of competitive position for land or demographic reasons. The aim of the scholarship would be to ensure supply of oil products in such areas. Based on the calculations that the Office has worked for the Ministry, such based support of susceptibility is expected to be about 170 million. K. However, the total volume of oil transport today accounts for some 370,400 million years. The bill assumes that funding would be provided on the basis of sales applications and that the sum of funds would be determined according to the total budget expected to be equal to the oil transport costs each year, sold the amount of oil products at the appropriate sale site and specific based indexes to reflect the local regional based position, as assessed by the Office. A building agency would oversee the construction work of the granters and would be given strength each year. The bill leaves a minister in the second place to set the rules for calculating, implementing, and implementing the granting of the Agency's commission. A respectable president. Clearly, both employment and transport are still dependent on oil products as energy sources and on the special structure to ensure that oil products services continue in sensitive areas, at least during energy exchange. If the bill is legalized, much of the support provided by oil products will be simplified in vulnerable areas. The management and cost of such an equation is greatly reduced, and it takes on a more transparent system that is in line with government policy of simple regulations for the economy. Therefore, significant administrative improvements, as well as the availability of urban fuel, will continue to be assured. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u91	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. There is something else that comes to mind when you cross the bill, and no doubt more questions will arise when this discussion and the handling of the matter during the council. However, I'd like to ask a minister if it wasn't for a reason, since these changes were made, to enter the international flight as well. We know that it matters a lot in Eglish positions and Akureyri. Those who plan or want to sell trips to and from Iceland from these airports have noted that one of the things that is out of control is that the price of aircraft benzin is higher there than in the southwest corner. Didn't the Minister have the option to take it into now to cut that knot, this problem? Clearly, this would further encourage direct flight to and from those places, which are so important in the country. I can see that there's some other job being referred to in this bill, but it would've been more wise to take advantage of the trip, since we're bringing this case in and changing all these laws. That's one question, why hasn't it been done? Then I would like to ask a minister if he could tell us members and citizens of the country that this change will not lead to higher oil prices in the country or even, as some may worry, to sell or to sell in some places simply lay off. Is that not what this change means?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u92	A respectable president. About the second question why? The senator has men, as I went over in my case, been putting the angles in the arrangement for some time, a group, and they review it in their report with the bill. When the board suggested that this system be removed, I felt that it would be important to find out if it really had no effect. Hence, Capacent was taken into the project and, on the other hand, a graffiti to identify it, and the conclusion of these parties is that some sort of system must be built, and that is their assessment that in the way that this is being replaced, it will be guaranteed that it can be prevented. A senator mentioned, i.e. That there may be some place where the oil distribution is, because it is more expensive, or that the price might be higher. The purpose of the system is to ensure that such sites will continue to be distributed fuel at comparable prices as we know. It is the ideologies, and we create a highly complex and expensive administrative system that, in the opinion of many, is out - of - date and cannot resist the passing of time. Regarding the first question, it has previously been said that the current system does not equal the fuel in international flight, and there is an entire report from the University of Akureyri that does not answer the question very clearly whether it is necessary. Therefore, further work needs to be done, and we travel minister have discussed bringing it up to answer those questions. However, it can be done in a number of ways too, as shown in the fine report published by the University of Akureyri, including the U.S.A. that oil companies themselves could contribute to equalizing the cost between land areas. [[The president calls.]] There's something else that comes in like a supply store and fuel storage every airport, which may be the biggest case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u93	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. Yes, this report may not have said immediately or on, but we do know that the declarations of those who have worked in international tourism and the places mentioned have shown that fuel prices are one of the things that are flouting in this regular international flight that so many people dream about and can certainly be important. So I want to encourage the highest. A minister to immediately set off the work he mentioned here, he put it down so that it would be considered to initiate it. To begin right away and keep the international flights open, or places that have access to this new project, it proves to be good. I say now, she's good, Mr. President, because it's on the bill, at least. one oil company is concerned that the change, at least as it was then, may have an impact on oil prices or on the price of these products increase at the same location or even the distribution. We can see that the network of these distributions is indiscriminate when it comes to the region, and it is obvious that animals are moving and maintaining activity in certain locations than in others. That's why it's so important that the subsidies don't disappear in these places. I'd like to encourage the Minister to take away any doubt about it. If it is not clear to them, it will be stated on the committee that the matter will not be resolved unless prices are guaranteed not to rise and that this change does not result in the need to close some Service Places or stations in a country filled with the need to remove these products.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u94	A respectable president. I just agree with what. Senator. It is very important that this system change, which is truly more simple and inexpensive in all districts and responds better to the time required, does not compromise the service in the areas we are trying to secure with this bill. Therefore, this is exactly what can be described as responding by going through a structured program and that the Minister's Regulation actually establishes the rules, that the principles of the Agency, to detect that the system does not work as if it was proposed by anyone not bound up in a law to change it and act on it. The purpose is to ensure that this service will be comparable to that we know and will remain comparable throughout the country, especially in places where there was no system, would be just that, as shown by one of the oil society's sources, in fact, the most extensive area in the country, i.e. If it wasn't a system, it'd be dangerous. Therefore, the system is not removed. Rather, it is replaced by another system that is to ensure the same conclusion and at least as good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u95	A respectable president. Thank you very much. - Strategicly, the secretary of transportation. There are two things I would like to ask the Minister about. First, I have to admit that I had just not noticed that, as the bill says, the delivery cost of an oil company to Akureyri has not been equal in the current system, which is the flight, and is therefore not a change for the oil trades of Akureyri. The question, then, is: Can this be understood that the transport system is relevant at Egls and that the minister has an explanation for what causes? I can honestly say I should know, but I don't know the historical explanation behind this. The other thing I would like to pray for. A minister to pass only through is that the current income of the transport balance fund is, if I took the numbers correctly, 3503/4370 million a year and the minister mentioned that the remuneration that would be added to the currency would be 170 million a year. That's 200 million different. Does it mean that the support for moving to remote areas will be 200 million lower each year or that the number will be equaled in a different direction? Of course, 200 million, although spread across the country in one way or another, are also money. I'd like to know if there are more supportive measures than this 170 billion. K. Products to be met by or by the change can be expected to approximately 200 million more will be in the country to pay each year thereafter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u96	A respectable president. No, you can't understand it like that, huh? Senator. As I discussed in my case, today the system is very expensive and is waste of money, they do not do the job they're supposed to do. The transport costs are being set today. Then it is handled back and forth, with a special government and all kinds of resources, making it possible for certain items to balance the move. Adding an additional charge for the import oil is a guarantee of failure of the state's funds. Instead of setting this transport cost, we have an income of 170 million dollars in the state. The amount of money is then divided out to the places where the transport is needed to ensure that it will be in place, not to lie down, and the price is normal. They're laying off a complicated, burdensome system for companies in the country and the whole area, and more expensive. I would have thought that members of the Central Party, in view of what I've been listening to today, would be pleased to know that this is a relief from administrative and taxing measures for the companies of this country and to give strong support to those who need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u97	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A response from the secretary of transportation. He may have noticed that it is not a criticism of the plans to lower the transport balance fund. Rather, it is just a question of the matter. I have to admit, there's only two things I can explain. Either the system has been hugely expensive that we've used so far or the transport balance rate has been too high. If the 170 million dollars in the new warehouse will be moved to the Agency, the 200 million that are either major wastes and a lot of system devices all work together or that the fee has just been too high and neither one will ever recommend it. Of course, if you can achieve the same objective of 170 million market fees instead of 3503/4370 million shipping, that is the best. I reiterate that the main objective is, and I think it's been made clear by the minister, that this does not affect the price of the country. However, the premiums of high prices in the country should be supported by a panel of 170 million instead of support by this expensive discat costing 3503/4370 million. I don't understand. I don't understand. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u98	A respectable president. So I quote in a memo that the fund's management won, she said the existence of the fund was time error, the pattern of transportation had changed substantially, and the process was all too complicated and costly. There's too much cost in the system itself. In addition, many have cast the horns on this arrangement. It was as true of Capacent's conclusion that fuel distribution costs for the land would not be very high in the volume of oil companies as if these transports were decommissioned would probably not have a significant impact on fuel prices in much of the country's environment. I share their views with those members of the council who have mentioned that there are certain areas that we need to ensure. If there was no system, there is a danger of either happening; the cost of transport would increase considerably in the places or the communities or unions that had once served that service would replace it. That's why it's important to go in there. It is the purpose of this new system to make sure that the inhabitants of those places sit at the same level as the rest of the country, but, in the opinion of those who have considered it, everyone else at that table. There was a system that, in itself, did not produce any additional harm, considering what the market would care for. However, I expect and believe that this system will function very carefully. If it doesn't work, then changes need to be made. This arrangement in which this is carried out by the Minister's Regulation can be done very quickly if circumstances arise that the system is not fully functioning.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u99	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. We'll discuss a bill to correct the change in regional transport law that goes on materially onto the desalination of oil supply. In itself, I want to welcome the goals of the bill, the simple regulations and extramarital activities of this important element, and to ensure a measure of the equation regarding the fuel prices of the country around us. If in recent years more than half of the income balance fund has been more than what is really needed to support this operation and ensure this equation, of course, is very serious. It's all over the bounds for me to believe that. But I do not question the fact that this has been examined in the Ministry, and it has been concluded that with 170 million fuel prices, it is possible to achieve approximately the same results in transporting fuel in the region as it has been done by 3503/4370 million through the transport balance fund so far. This means, in effect, that if these numbers are that way as I understand them, they're 180 to 200 million higher a year. Of course, it's just a reason to be happy if you can get out of such a waste in the system. But as I say, there's just the limit that I believe that the proportions are in this, but I don't have any basis to keep anything else at this point. It is a goal in itself to simplify the management and management of such projects, and I think a building agency, even though you are looking at this bill for the first time, is in itself well intended to care for the management of such matters. It would be interesting to know if a living agency called for financial support to support that work, for in chapter 6 of the report on impact, it says that the impact on the state funds will be zero, which means that government funds will not contribute to more than 175 million, yet due to the price paid for this project. And then it can be concluded, and there can really be no other way, that the structured organization considers it to be such a relatively modest and undignified task to take to heart. So I'm supposed to celebrate, and I'm declaring a special pleasure in it, and I would have saved a considerable amount of money if it had been the case in the two subjects we discussed earlier. There's one thing I'd like to mention specifically. In N1 reviews to the bill, and N1 it's that company, if I understand correctly, which has been the major target of this regular work so far, there are some comments made to the bill as it appears, and worry is declared that by a modified system might result in an increase of prices or sale on oil products to certain places fell. I think this is a point that needs to be considered specifically on the environment and transport committee. And it's like the highest. A minister came in earlier needs to grasp the peripheral situations involved, for it certainly has a huge impact on access based on each area if fuel cannot be obtained in a relatively safe way at some particular location. As with this transport balance fund so far, surely these goals can be achieved. In addition, I also want to come on things that I might want to put under the hat of panicking. The bill's report says in the introduction, about 175 million are involved in the product expenditure, with the permission of a president: 'The change in income does not enter a special transport balance fund, but now flow directly into a state's budget. Go on says: ▪ The citizens of the state fund care for the collection of pay that is paid into the state fund. Each year the budget is determined in budgets, with a total of 375 million in 2020. K.◯ It describes the present system, to be said here, that they cannot find themselves in the position of each year to fight for this project to ensure the position of transport balances in the country, that this is the way it is designed. If it isn't -- now it might be in the bill as it already is, even though I haven't noticed so far - that we're not preparing us for an annual battle in which the temptation problem will be very much to take away this important equation of the country. I wanted to keep it the way of 1st. It is a state of authority that the Minister is given to guide the rules of calculating, implementing and granting granting grants of the Regulation. The objective is, as follows, by permission of the President: ▪ By allowing a minister to extend that leeway, the chances that the law's goals will be met must be higher than if legal firms become detailed rules that will be difficult to set aside if it becomes evident that they do not achieve their purpose. This may be true, but there is still a limit to what I think personal wisdom, and then completely away from the highest. A secretary of transportation, but only in general, how much the council can provide to provide a minister with the authority to manage funding like this. A recent debate was raised that made it hard to give the highest criticism. Secretary of education is authorized to distribute funds specified in a pack of two measures, if I recall correctly, from the government and, to the core, by Regulation. V.E.G. The minister of finance responded well, I trusted to say, there would be too much authority there. But I think the goals of everyone involved are clear. The equations of transport costs and the equations of fuel prices must be ensured. It's absolutely amazing if more than half of this transport price has gone into the system's operations so far. But now is the time to get out of that arrangement, and that's how I understand it. In fact, the control of the transport system suggests that the fund will be laid down, so that not many people are protected from the fund as such. But it's the prince's grip on transport that needs to be looked out for. I'm gonna make this work for 1st. In this respect, and look forward to a discussion on the environment and transport committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u100	Mr. President. Just a few comments and notes that I would like to leave in this discussion. First, it is very important to know whether the 175 million listed as a contribution to this subsidies are in line with what actually went into the equation of the system to be removed. I'm saying the change isn't necessarily bad, changing the arrangement. All you need to do is make sure that your goals stay maintained, that your equation will not be reduced. This does not result in the need for shutting down places that depend on the presence of these activities and not being completely eliminated. How wonderful it is that a building agency is given a role there! I agree with that. It's very important that it come out, because, of course, it's a concern if it's such that a lot of money hasn't really used into the equation as it seems to be when we go through these numbers. I would also like to mention another reason why it was mentioned that the administrative facilities were being simplified. See page 18. 6 in the bill, in the chapter on consultation, with the permission of the president: ▪ It has been reported since measuring the precise arrangements for support and instead of fortification by a minister to organise the thresholds of granting granters under the bill. I think it's very important that these algorithms are early. Ministers are being transferred at any given time to manage these rules. It would've been better if they'd been legalized. It's because they're in the middle of what's going on. It may be possible to do so after these formulas have been implemented. They must not have any uncertainty. There must not be any new uncertainty about this in some way. According to this, I would like to suggest that the committee discuss this carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-04-96.u101	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion on this subject. I believe that both the person standing here as well as the members of the Parliament who have addressed agree that there is a need for an arrangement to ensure that this equation to the places it needs to be held, to ensure a service on the other hand, and the price comparable to that of the rest of the country. It is true that the purpose of this methodology, to give the minister this open permission to adapt to this is designed to ensure that instead of going to write it into a law that would have to be adjusted if some screws were to be adjusted to make sure that some places do not fall out or something like that. I realize, Mr. President, that it is a balance art of intermission, on the one hand, to ensure that the purpose of the project may be met which may be of the utmost importance, but for the places experienced in this transportation and insure access to fuel and services and, on the other hand, comparable prices, it is of enormous importance. And I think it's justified in this case, but agree with what. It is important that the committee is well reviewed and that the information available to us in the Ministry can be given readily.
