ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u1	We're moving to the highest. The prime minister of his policy for the government and will discuss it, which will be broadcast and broadcast from the General Assembly Hall. The discussion is divided into three rounds. Prime Minister has 12 minutes to history, while other members of Congress have six minutes to first pass, five minutes to the second, and four minutes to third round. The order of the classes in all traffic is this: Left movement, green supply, Central Party, Group, Independence Party, Piratars, Expensitives, Expensives, Expeditions, and Groups of the People. The speakers for the left movement ◯ green supply will be first-pass prime minister Jakobsdóttir Jacobs, Ingi In Guðbrandsson of the Environment Minister of the Second Round, and Svandís Svavarsdóttir Health. The middle-class speakers will be Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, 3th. That's the north side. "In the first round, in the second Bergþór Ólason, the fourth round. Witchest. , and on the third round Ólafur Ísleifsson, 10th. Smoke. n. For the United States of America, Logi Einarsson speaks for the 5th. That's the north side. "In the first round, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, 4th. We're out of here. , in the second round and Helga Vala Helgadóttir, 4th st. Smoke. ........ For the Independence Party, Bjarni Benediktsson, secretary of finance and economics, speak first-pass, in the second, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, 2th. We're out of here. and third round Páll Magnússon, 1st. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! Pirata's speakers will be in the first round of Halldóra Mogensen, 11th. Smoke. n., Thorddur Ævarsdóttir Avvarsdóttir, 4th. Smoke. So, second and third round Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, 11th Smoke. The path to the program "umount" For the advance party, the first round of Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, secretary of transportation and unit, the second Alfreðsdóttir Alfredddddóttir, the Ministry of Education and Culture, and the third round of Daðason Daredason, the social and child welfare minister. The superintendents will be in the first round of the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, daughter of 7th. We're out of here. "Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, 7th. Smoke. So, second and second Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, 13th, respectively. We're out of here. "In third round. For the mob of the people speaking in the first and third round of Sæland hareland, 8th. Smoke. s., and Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, 12th. We're out of here. , in the second round. Outside party members, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, 9th. Smoke. n., and Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfsdóttir, 3th. We're out of here. "have four minutes each at the end of the first round.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u2	Mr. President. Good citizens in 2020 will hardly be viewed as anything in the Icelandic history. A storm, aquifers, avalanches, and finally the smallest, yet the busiest in all of us - the crown virus itself - has become like a family member at a party that was supposed to be over. As Albert Camus put it in his famous history, the plague, but it is nice to say that all copies of it were in the loans of the City Library today, for some reason: ▪ Strepetism and war are always equally surprising to the people. [...] The plague goes beyond the imagination of man; it is said that it is an unreal, evil dream that passes by. But she will not suffer forever. This corridor is going to be a long walk and not quite there for her end. It is usually what makes walking difficult - not knowing exactly how much is left. But there's one thing that knows, it's over, and I know that we're going to make our lives better. In September 2019, the traveling overseer was not being discussed with the last debate. But now a year later, he has played all the nations weeping. Today, about a million people have died, and the World Health Organization fears that another so many will be killed before the end. Although we have had to take many measures in this country, we have been able to deal with the epidemic without having to take the same action as in most of our neighboring countries. The number of people traveled within the country during the summer, and many visited places in our beautiful land they had never visited before - the topic of coffee at many work places were such destinations as Sturdour and Greenbourg, The Great Man and Death. In this epidemic, I have often been proud to be a human being because of being part of a society where trust and standing together has been the theme of trust. It could never be easy to go through such an epidemic, and we have not overrun all difficulties. But living in such a society is a privilege. Mr. President. When the first infection arrived in Iceland, the government decided to do what was needed, and rather more than less, to get society through the economic disaster that results from the epidemic. We immediately intervene in economic activities to ensure survival of people and to support public and employment through difficult times. The time for restoration is ahead, where we will promote public investment, defend the welfare, and use the power of the government. We enjoy living in the best interests of our nation; the place of the nation's population is strong, debt has been paid down, and the Secret Bank has a powerful reserve of currency. Money policy has provided the lowest growth in the history of the Republic. A great deal of cooperation between the government and the labour market partners on improved labour market communication has resulted in many results, creating a new national conference and a trollaby committee. Earlier this week, the government presented measures to facilitate a workforce. It combines activities designed to increase the number of activities, but at the same time contribute to the green transformation and increase the diversity of Icelandic employment. It is a pleasure to see the workforce's members show the responsibility of not canceling contracts and maintaining peace in the workplace. In this way, we can fit in with the challenge of creating jobs and ensuring that unemployment will not be long - term ills in our society. The budget distributed today shows a firm desire by the government to protect the success of the health and welfare systems and new education, research, and innovation. Government investments include a variety of investments; means of transportation, buildings, fields of knowledge, creative branches, and green investments. The wealth of government will be used with full weight to provide public and commercial resistance in the country. It's gonna be a green fight. Private investments and governments will have positive incentives to support its power in green transformation, non-carbonization, and greenhouse gas shrinkage. Also in the high-tech and knowledge industry, which will be an important foundation for the future. These too are the focus of the government in new scientific and technological targets. At the same time, we promote prosperity, health care, and all the social infrastructure that have proved their strength in these disasters. My fellow Americans. Life isn't just an epidemic. While he has been infuriated, we have persevered in the work that had begun. There were a number of cases here at our last council, and many other issues are on the program for the coming assembly. A comprehensive government action program was introduced during the summer, reporting on measures that will be more effective than our international commitments require of us on the Paris Convention and the European Union agreement of Iceland, Norway, and the European Union. And we don't stop there, because the government decided at the beginning of the season to set the goal higher and to plan for a non-carbon object later than in 2040. A goal now to become tangible. In the past three years, the battle against the climate in Iceland has been reversed, and not so much later. There are also major projects in the field of nature protection: a Middleland national park that I hope will clear up in winter an amazing contribution to global protection. As world history is examined, epidemics, such as the one who continues to rage, are becoming more difficult in the world. The more important it is to ensure balance and social justice in these disasters. In this course we are now; the righteous taxation system has been legalized here last year, and by now tax returns to less income groups. We have decided to extend the birthmark, and in the winter, the General will struggle with how it should be divided between parents. Special attention should be given to the different consequences of the epidemic of men and women, but there is no exception to domestic violence worldwide. As a result, one of the first actions of the government was to strengthen the female apostasy, and a progressive awareness of this community damage was under way. In order to improve the balance, we have added to the social housing system and increased the possibility of income groups to provide housing. In winter, we will deal with improving rent rights and reducing the value of insurance insurance in the housing system. We have reduced the health - care costs and the quality of our ministry, especially mental health. We've got a lot of health care around the country, and we're building a new land hospital on Ring Road. The General adopted special measures to meet the income - rich groups of elderly ones, and we reduced the financial declines to micro-energy donors. There are ahead major projects to counteract social and social subheadings. Investment banking lines will be reduced. The bill for improvement against siege monopolys and a review of equality laws will be submitted, one new set of principles that will strengthen the child's position with atypical sexual traits to further the legal environment in behalf of queer people. The situation of the homeless children on the run will be reviewed, as well as the methodology for child interests that come here for shelter. And major and important legal adjustments will be made during this council to promote the prosperity of children. My fellow Americans. This winter will be an opportunity for the General to deal with various forms of change in constitution, including the directive that non-employment resource (s) should become national property. This has been debated at the Council since the early 1960's. Individual members of different categories have adopted this matter and made their own decisions. And now the General will have the opportunity to take this step and set such regulations, clearly and indelibly, into a constitution to ensure future justice, as well as other aspects of environmental and natural protection, Icelandic language and sign language, President and Commission, national regulations and national regulations. The General may decide to use this opportunity to show how these meetings deal with such big and important issues. The General may decide to change the Constitution in a reasonable way in terms of public interest. A general assembly may decide to pass this important test and to have a physical discussion of these matters rather than be caught on decks of years and decades ago. We have a wonderful opportunity to look to the future and to make good decisions for future generations. No doubt many have had enough discussions about the plague. But since I was one of those who got a copy of the Camus plague to get me in the right gear for that night, I can tell you that just as in the plague, this one will pass over. And it is good to remember the lessons Rieux Dr. Rieux, the historian of the plague, drew from the pestilence that struck the city of Oran; the simple truths learned in time of pestilence, that there is more to praise than to be despised in men. It makes me feel that as a community, we have shown admirable persistence, strength, and common sense in our conflict with the virus. It has also shown me that we live in a strong society. A community where fate and history are intertwined, yet their destiny is unique. And while our role as politicians is primarily to care for the community as a whole, it is important to think about the destiny of each individual. Our decisions are to focus on the overall benefits, but they are influenced by individuals who alone or by others who try to get the best out of life. Consider the young couple who are now able to spend more time with their newborn baby because we agreed to extend the birthmark. The young man I met the other day, who had been born in a girl's body and had now reported that he was a boy and was comfortable with it because the Law was no longer dealing with sexual problems. Scientists who have had to fight for every cent to pursue their research but now have a better chance of pursuing their quest for knowledge, for the benefit of society, because we have decided to make large contributions for research and development. The pioneers who suddenly see the possibility that their innovations can grow further with added support to innovation, since the Council approved higher reimbursements and the World Council agreed to the Crimean Fund. Little young people who now have an opportunity to buy their own home with new share loans because we in this room agreed to create an opportunity for it. The responsible men who received a letter stating that they were no longer responsible for student loans that had tormented them for years and decades - since the Council decided to eliminate responsibilities for student loans. All those who have struggled to increase their understanding of the importance of unscrupulous nature and to see the Fuhros of Peace and all his comrades at Jack Hashák, on the part of the Council's decision to appoint Jacki to the Mountains in a reservation. Everything in this house has to do with people's destiny. And our role is to improve society's quality, variety, and balance so that more people can enjoy their own mature abilities and fulfill their dreams. Today, elections are ahead of us next year, and familiar prophecies indicate that everything will now be dissolved in a basket of Caesar's beards. All of this will be in the grip of a traditional conflict of power under the negatives of political conflict. However, let us not forget that behind the conflict, there are different paths and ideas. These different ideas can strengthen one another or build new ones. The ideas are what makes our community what it is. Behind the conflict is human beings with conviction and ideals, every one of whom wants to work on a better society. And I believe that we will continue to succeed in working on making society better for each of us. Although the epidemic has been difficult, we have a bright future. We're used to things here at the end of the world. We know from the story that in Icelandic society, sexuality has power, and with that power we will raise ourselves strongly from the bottom. It's gonna be all right. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u3	President. Good citizens of the country. During the following days and weeks, members of the Central Party will continue to present solutions to the problems we are dealing with, as well as the cases that the government has neglected since the outbreak began. However, the plan is now to discuss the debate with the prime minister and the New Testament. In his speech, prime minister explained the government's interests, told of the Covid epidemic, and repeatedly quoted French philosopher Albert Camus. In fact, it was appropriate for a minister to quote Camus, not because he was a socialist, but because he defined himself as a absurdist. The policy that the government will present at the end of the season is in the spirit of Albert Camus. She's absurd, she's ridiculous. It continues the endless flow of system issues most of which show that Iceland is the most qualified kid in the European Union's home of recording. But to the extent that the government shows political emphasis at the end of the season, you lack a word to describe almost surprising where this government is heading. The prime minister introduced some of these matters in his policy debate, including the four cases in the topic list, a proposal that, according to the description, is most likely the most disturbing council case I recall in the future. It seems that there is a tendency to prevent children from getting necessary and life - sustaining action. Children may be born with various birth defects. Sometimes there is nothing to do, but thankfully, modern science enables us to correct many of them. But now it is suggested that action be prohibited in order to repair, cure, specific organs, or what is called atypical sexual traits. This is true of 1.7% of children as determined by the Ministry. The government now intends to forbid parents and doctors to use modern medicine. It's a quest for progress and science. It's a quest for freedom from parents. It is a search for the freedom of health care professionals, and this is a quest for child rights. I can't believe the Independence Party is letting this case through. Actually, there's been a lot of things I thought that the band couldn't approve, but he did. Third platoon will then likely do what is expected of them. The prime minister also announced changes in law on the welcome of unbelieving children, apparently to give them and their prospective families high priority for asylum. As prime minister, I sought to study the affairs of refugees through conversations with people who engage in the field ministry every day. The problem with counseling of these people was that no special rules could be set on nonamble children because it was being done to help bring children into harm's way. Here again, the policy is based only on the sounds, image, and not on real consequences. In fact, the status of immigrants is in complete disrepute for the same reason. The lack of control will prevent us from helping as many as possible who need help most. The government case record is filled with amazing issues. Rather, it is designed to oppose nicotine powders and generators. Another attempt will be made to weigh the work of an Icelandic taxi driver at the same time that they have suffered a significant loss of income without much help. It is now time to destroy an Icelandic name - name tradition that has survived since the conquest of the land and until this government began. Nor has the government forgotten its plans for a legal alliance. Although there is no time to review all the amazing issues that await us, it is noted that the government's economic actions will be thoroughly discussed when the budget begins at the end of the weekend. Prime Minister has a plan for recession in all sectors of society. It does not refer to the economic recession, that contraction has occurred without a plan, but to measures in climate. Now the government sees the opportunity to use the situation for political purposes or, as said, to use the opportunities the epidemic has created to speed up the green revolution. But what's the biggest contribution from Iceland to climate? It's the industry we run here with environmental energy. If one branch moved from Iceland to China, emissions would be almost ten times as much. Even so, there is no sign that the government is going to react. The problem's even bigger in agriculture. The article from many sources and the work that has been based on Iceland since treason is in grave danger. At the same time, the government spends tens of billions of dollars on projects such as city lines and the establishment of climate change. Keep running, as you can see best in the government itself. The expenditures of the Ministry of Presidency have never increased as in this government, and in this time no government has employed a similar number of helpers and added to the execution of power, such as this government, who claimed to have formed the procreation of the Council. But what was it designed for? Is there anything in this last government lawsuit that would not have been as relevant as it was even better if left greens were in the government with, for example. Pirates and rejuvence? It doesn't have to be this way. There is another option, and it will be shown by members of the Central Party in a new council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u4	President. My fellow Americans. At these odd times, the paces of society become almost tangible; each wheel affects the next one and the small failure, even in the smallest, dulling the clockwork all. The importance of government and strong public service has rarely been made so clear and never more obvious that a healthy community must be built on a more intensive cohesion, balance, diversity, and participation of all. Right - hand ideas that a sober market will solve its problems and also give the public the right quality, simply judging themselves. Today, it is the solutions of an equal policy that is most important in the battle of disaster and the governments around the world, both to the left and to the right, look to them shamelessly. In a pandemic and historical unemployment, the public in Iceland can rely on the same policy. It can also fight disaster. With mutual strength, we can face problems ahead of us, but for this we need political courage and a clear view of the future. In the next few days, the United States will provide a comprehensive program on how Iceland can break out of unemployment crisis to meet a greener future. It is built on three pillars; work, well - being, and green structure. The responsible way out of unemployment crisis is by increasing the number of jobs, both in the private sector and in the public, across the country, promoting the well - being and building new green support for future desirable things. We need to engage in more targeted employment markets, take good care of jobseekers, and enable companies to recruit people, meet rural governments, and spend jobs there, but above all, protect people's close - up services. We need to invest in health care and education. We need to engage in the subjugation of public service. That's important. More important, we need to take a great deal of weight in the face of disaster. You see, in the present situation, nothing is less than a real green revolution. It is inexpensive to hear a prime minister speak about a green revolution when it provides the same day with budget and financial programs that promise no such thing. It's not a green revolution when Iceland places less climate targets than Denmark and Norway. It is not a green revolution when we release more and more on the watch of this government every year. It is not a green revolution when the state defends less than 1% of GDP for climate action. Abraham Lincoln said that the best way to predict the future is to create it, and now we simply need the courage to do so. The next year's campaign for politics has to be about where we are heading. The right way, the responsible way, is by immediately attacking a powerful green investment plan, actions that combat disaster, while creating employment and value for all of us. A green revolution is the correct answer to unemployment, which is now extracting power from society. The government's remuneration is favorable, and now it is time to invest industriously in intelligent, innovation, evolution, environmental product, green food production and energy exchanges, and large investments in public transport. This has to be done right away. My fellow Americans. I am convinced that we can create a better and stronger welfare system in Iceland, where no child can go hungry. Since housing security is as self - righteous as access to water and air. Since it is less expensive and the currency is ever more stable. Since unemployed, desperate, and old people need to live without anxiety from day to day, but also because of the shelter of any discrimination and the absence of children. It is a society marked by humanity and self-sufficiency, equality, and freedom. But such a community does not make us unless we have a righteous tax burden and are reminded of inequities. We also create a society like this only if we respect the decision of the Constitution, increase international cooperation, and ensure that the nation's resources are justified, and only if we take more pride in climate change. My fellow Americans. Today, we are faced with an extraordinary complex task that will not all of us do in one moment. But the first step is to change the course, turn the bow from the right, and shake off old - fashioned credits for how government matters work and how valuable things will come into existence. At such times, we simply cannot afford to allow the idea of the Independence Party or the economic policy of right men to take over. There is simply too much at stake. Hence, more than ever before, we who have other values, believe in another way, be responsible and steadfast, and work together, turn around. It is the role of the United States on these occasions to bring together the forces that are ready to promote work, well-being, and a green future and to form a green socialism regime after the next election.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u5	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. These are no longer unprecedented times, the result of a public meeting was about two weeks ago. We are in the odd position that the unusual has become normal. But under these circumstances, it is also important to remember that this is a temporary situation, not a condition that has come to exist. We are in temporary trouble, and we are determined to overcome them, both the virus and the economic problem. This does not mean, however, that the reality that will take place after that will be just as it was before. And I'd like to say here that he's not exactly supposed to be. What I want back is work, uncontrolled communication, and health. Life's natural way, as we are used to, is where people don't take their baby to the nursery and where there is no need to sail ashore with a boat full of sick sailors. But what I want to change is the variety of professional life. More support, emphasis on knowledge and employment, which are less sensitive to the cycles of nature - even to the whims of nature - and to the ones we trust so much today. I would like to see the road of deep - seated support as much as possible, that tourism is going to be successful, and that the aluminium production will be paid fair prices like anything that comes from energy - efficient industry, and at the same time achieve international competition. We want all of this to come back to the way it has been and to have a future. But we also want to be more connected with the outside world, opening up the country to people who want to come here to work and multiply our knowledge in various fields. We are to be open to obtain experts who want to come, live here, share their knowledge with society, get them here to work with us for the future of the country. We will continue to nurture innovation and research, and we need to do more to find new strengths and thus get stronger out of our trials than we entered them. This situation is a threat. There is a threat to health and economy. Unemployment has increased rapidly, and uncertainty is difficult. Losing my job hurts people, not knowing what tomorrow will bring. Similarly, for people who have built up a business, employment has been a long business, but now they have their feet removed. But we all have to make the message clear to them that this is a temporary situation. And we in charge have promised to do more than less. It is important to put such around society, both people and businesses, so that they can get on their feet quickly again when they are glad to do so. That we do not lose valuables unnecessaryly, that the heart of viable activity can go on beating. Without employment, there will be no resistance. Without jobs, there are no jobs now or for the return. Therefore, it is important that we now do what can be done to soften the shock and shorten the asteroid to our next economic growth. It is vital that all of us take on employment back. Those who downplay the problems of employment or who feel it is wrong for governments to cooperate with companies simply do not understand this important relationship between creation being valuable in the private sector and the lifespan of all of us. Good citizens of the country. Certainly we do not control the virus, nor do we have the effect it has on people. Not yet. But it's coming. And there is much to do in trying to keep people alive as normal as possible inside the unusual. That is why we have decided to do what we can so that life can continue our routine. That we do not interfere with public service. Under such circumstances, tilting is justified. The balance of state funds is not lost money. It is used to support a business through a difficult time; to promote domestic production, ranging from food production to a broad variety of industrial production, while software is at the same time present with intelligent, creative articles. It is also protected in investing in better technologies, stronger infrastructures, and supporting research; we invest with a tilt of energy exchanges and policy towards achieving climate goals; we place much pressure on it. And we are reducing taxes and ensuring tax appeals to stimulate investment at the very time it sorely lacks. This we do best with direct support, with a lower curse, by letting the wealth of the Kingdom bear greater burdens, by working with green solutions, new ideas, and by agreeing to get stronger out of the problem. We've got to go ahead of this thing for signs of protection, defense and resistance in spring, but we've got to move forward, we've got to think of it as an opportunity to update Iceland. Technicalists, more efficient, green, more reasonable and more powerful society. It'll be Iceland for up 2.0.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u6	Dearest nation. The biggest question we should ask ourselves in the next year is a question that I have kept asking myself more and more during the season: Where do we want to go? I have often missed a conversation in this hall as to how we will seize and prepare for the future's challenges. All too often I hear ministers and members of the government talk about how to hold fast to the past, in archenemy ideologies. The reason is that the groups making up the government prefer to discuss the past, but the future is simple; they do not understand the future. But it is no longer available to escape this discussion, such events as the Covid epidemic require that we think ahead of the road and that in power, there are people who understand the importance of taking part in future shapes but do not float like dead fish in the stream of progress. Piranians have a clear view of what changes are necessary to meet future challenges and not only because of Covid-19 but also to prepare society for technological advancements that will have a tremendous impact on all of us, including those who fight the most against them. Many jobs will change. Others disappear, and new ones are replaced. This problem requires not only the education and the growth of jobs but, above all, stability for working people as unemployed, for students, for older citizens, and disability, not just for companies. So we need to start discussing solutions such as civilian pay, which are not just the answer to unstable economic and mechanical functions, but the economic promise of a government that all should be assured of success, unprovable infrastructure, to grow and prosper on their own terms. We also understand that climate challenges require ambitious action and courage to carry out and finance them fully. For Iceland to become a role model for other nations, urgent action, far beyond the present government's plans, is refusing to recognize the root cause of the problem, an economy that promotes large commercial greed over social responsibilities. The social responsibilities and sustainableness of companies will never be met without their environmental and community damage being appreciated for the financial resources. If you pollute them, you pay. New economic and sustainable incentives instead of contaminated corporations are the key to developing a real prosperity economy. My fellow Americans. We understand that rulers have to be held accountable, that there is a need to strengthen the right person against the use of government power, and that there is a need to increase the need for someone to make a decision. Without such restraint, the way is clear for all kinds of little dictators in the uniform of powerful leaders to their feet, as we can see in many areas around us. That's why we're fighting for a new constitution. It's a justice case, democracy, security, environmental, future. This is something that the government does not want to understand, just as it does not seem to understand, it is the nation that is the chairman of the Constitution, not the government, not the heads of political parties, not even the General Assembly, as a prime minister would mean in his speech earlier but the nation. The nation is and is to be the director. You see, the key to universal respect is nothing so complex. In order for the people to respect the General Assembly, the Generals must show respect for the nation. The government does not seem to understand that it is represented by the people in the country. When the government faced its first real challenge, dealing with the economic consequences of the epidemic, the money force in the country was consulted. The government's top advisers were either representatives of large corporations or representatives of the larger corporations, the Globes, who can, on a day's notice, just order a press conference at the Ministerial Resident and 25 billion from the state fund. The Lobbyians who have sold harmful voodoo economics to governments where companies are always in the foreground, never people. Thus, unemployment benefits, disability benefits, and much less pay are not to be increased in a crisis or in good health. Rather, it is never convenient to be on hand with people. But a healthy economy is an illusion if its basic building blocks, the people of the land, are ignored because when people have money between their hands, they can shop and create jobs. As you can see, economic systems are merely a description of what people do. Action to promote economy must therefore be action to strengthen people. Simple. Our theory of thought in Pirata has always been based on the fact that the power belongs to the public. The success of the future is about individuals and their approach to the shape of society, not just a big rock in the city. Therefore, we must select groups that put the interests of the public above the interests of big corporations that enable people to seize opportunities and create their own future, select groups that respect the nation, and provide the constitution they choose for themselves, groups that understand the future and want the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u7	A respectable president. The head of the Middle Party gave his speech that government policy was the policy of the left green. The chairman of the Conspiracy then came up and said that this policy was the right course for the Independence Party. The answer, of course, is: The policy of this government is the policy of the forward party. [[I'm laughing at the Hall of Congress.]] It is true that the chairman of the United States said: work, growth, well - being. These are the mottos of the forward movement, and the Conspiracy is recording them. Later, when he described the plans to take on the investment campaign, he described the government's investment campaign. It's true that the whole world is going that way. My speech is ruined because I had to start with this, but I'm still going to do some things. It is October 1, and the eighth month of the year that the Korean epidemic began to influence our lives. The number of people who had a job on March 1 is now out of work. All operations in the government have been aimed at softening this massive blow as the national greeting is protected as best possible. And what is involved in softening the blow? Yes, it is primarily a matter of guarding people's jobs and their living breads, and it is likely the major part - time operation. As we have gone on, we have extended it and advanced income - related unemployment benefits. The objective is to protect the household's provision as much as possible because the month's conventions come with all their commitments. We protect our jobs, and we create new jobs. It's a job, a job, a job that it's all about. The summer was different from the last summer, no foreign tourists. Iceland, however, went through the country, and I think it has increased our understanding of people's circumstances around the country and made our country feel stronger. Our beautiful Iceland is not just our capital and country. We have land areas, different but not with the same people's interests, interests where work is at the top of the list, the ability to attend the month's conventions with no anxiety in our stomach. This involves our work at the General Assembly and the government, the last months, the next few weeks, the next month: to protect and create new jobs. Jobs, jobs, jobs. For the next few months, we lay the foundation for the future. There's a lot of education and employment ahead of those who lose their jobs, as well as the emphasis on creating new jobs and new opportunities. This is especially true in areas that have become more severe because of freezing in tourism, agriculture, and fishing areas. We all know that in the face of these disasters, the future is bright in international tourism. Nature is still so beautiful, still energized by year by ambitious transport, and most important: the knowledge of the people and the power still exists and will explode as never before when the virus is supplied, and the desire to travel will explode again. Today, small and medium - sized companies all depend on money owners being patient and waiting off the waves. There are people's jobs and homes at stake. My outlook on life and my past few months have strengthened that quality, for I have experienced the nation's great solidarity under difficult circumstances. Despite the challenges we face, despite our inability to live normal lives, and despite the fact that the crisis affects people, we have a strong grasp of the fact that we are able to cope, cooperate, with understanding the circumstances of others, tolerance, and optimism. And most of all, it's a job, a job, a job. Today's a happy day. After years of fighting for improved transport in southern Western lands, the judgment has finally been decreed that construction can begin through the forest of Chef. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. It may be concluded that in the years that follow, the increase in the growth in transport may meet the decline of the next few years in various other areas. The application, on the other hand, is based on an ambitious prospect in a 15 - year transport program and on additional financial resources being put on the transport and investment initiative of the government. The next year, 8700 jobs are created on their own. Then it is important that we be aware of our effectiveness as consumers when buying Icelandic goods, whether lamb or chocolate or clothing. In this way, we defend and create new jobs. We have a choice. It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. It's all right. The fall only bites in our noses, and the winter is getting closer. Since the fall of 2019 C.E., much has been done not only by the virus but also by the last winter, many were troubled. The storms passing through the country last winter showed no clear difference between parts of the country. The government responded firmly, and by this magnitude a storm would not have such an effect. It's done. The government of forwardness and independence party and left green is broad in nature. There are contrasting forces that reflect largely the opinions of the people. She has been determined to view the people's common interests and to make peace in the community. She's at the right time in the right place. We need to protect our jobs, we need to create jobs. It is a task that we can unite in. When it gets to spring, we'll be ready to mount a defense. A raise for Icelandic society. Work, growth, well-being, chairman of the United States, because the future depends on the center. It is October 1, 2020, and we are in the middle of a war with the crown virus. But every month that comes from now on also tells us that life is getting back to normal. Let's not forget it. Let us agree to protect jobs and create jobs because the project is urgent and the project is clear: employment, employment, employment. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u8	Dearest nation. We were here to hear the advice of the prime minister. Instead, we were filled with justification because the Ministers were contrary to their own statements at the beginning of the pandemic to do more than less. Justice that they took small steps instead of big steps. Now. This defense did not provide the nation with guidance and hope for the way we deal with these problems, how to put our people around; social, economic, and spiritual concerns. How to keep life in the small and mediumsized companies, defend jobs, manage jobs. The talk did not send messages to Southnes, where unemployment is now about 20%, to young people who have more difficulty finding work, to artists who have been pulled away by their feet, or to monopolies. How the government intends to ensure that the public will be involved in the development of the economy and how we bridge the gap between those with much and those with little or nothing. That the restoration will not be merely on the basis of the old funds and the familiar friends. Like last time, and last time. A respectable president. Acute homes and small companies are now. Right now. On the first day after the month's match. And we're going to find that everything is missing between the preventative measures and the economic conditions. If the big steps will not be right away, then the government is offering the nation a prolonged crisis. That is an unacceptable priorities. While the government considers it a law to be always one step behind the virus, it does not have to be. In this now third wave, there is still a lack of plans and conversation, a clear vision that the whole nation understands. When unexpected circumstances and challenges arise, the weaknesses of the government, based on the only thought of keeping things private, become evident. The government of the station, the government of the lowest business, is not the best to act quickly and safely. How big a step, then. My fellow Americans, we face a decisive battle in one of the biggest political issues. What should be the contents of a constitution? The government groups and the Central Party have promised to set up an arrangement without the temporary binding of hunting rights. The current suggestion is meaningless, does not change anything, does not guarantee national property. If something is done, it makes it more likely that a nation will have few specialities. That's why we have to ask. That's where the Cradle's going to stand. And in months past, our currency has fallen rapidly. The inflation has doubled. The food basket went up. But the currency, it can't be discussed. Not now - later, we'll say the government parties and their entourage. But then I ask when? When can we talk about one of the biggest interests in the public, the stability of the book? Why doesn't Iceland have a innovation company that thrives for a long time, even if it happens to be here? Why can big business settle on foreign currency while homes are put on the risk? Why do we have a currency that is only for some people and not all of them? Is it not the burden of evidence for those who oppose change? Let us not forget that society is about people, not the systems or interests of few people. That's what the next election will be. And well to mark, it is not enough for members of the Independence Party to write a regular letter in a state-of-the-art Morning paper to work out responsibility for the spending of the past few years, all of which may be on the watch of the party and write about the importance of freedoms and then marching down here to the council and rescinding votes against their own words and basic ideals, which may not be their ideals after all. And the same can be said of VG's executives, who claim to represent a greener future and then choose with a blue past. This is the group that claims to be against whales and wants to update the fishing system but does nothing about it. The group who claims to want to face the humanitarian refugee problem but who has shown the opposite. We know that nothing will change on the watch of this government. This virtual reality has to come to an end, the tents are falling, and then it is important that the people see what is really behind it. My fellow Americans. In a year, the nation can choose to extend in the lives of the government of quietness, perhaps with the support of the Central Party. Or to form a government for the masses, where the center of politics will be trapped and the liberal strand. And there is a sharp difference between ancient classes that don't want to change and those groups who dare to reform Icelandic government systems, Icelandic society, groups that are not dependent on, are free. That freedom will be useful to the restoration. For a stronger community, for diversity, for a greater human and free future. My point is, dear people: Your choice is yours.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u9	President. Dearest nation. The crisis is cruel, and so is poverty. Interestingly, for the first time tonight, the concept of poverty appears. The fact is, though, that here we are looking at the rocks getting ever deeper and more grudging between the rich and the poor. By the government of Catherine the Katrín of Jakobsdóttir and the left greener, poverty has grown to the rhythm of the shock we are suffering from this virus. And what do we see? What do we see, my fellow Americans? We see longer rows in front of relief agencies asking for food, where hungry people ask for food. Then the head of the Organization calls out: work, work, employment, employment. Great. That's right. We need to keep the economic wheel running. But when it comes to doing more or less, it might have been assumed that the nation as a whole was being spoken of, not to split it in two, so that it would be for those who have but not for those who also need help. What does it mean to do more than less? It means helping everyone, not just some. I've rarely seen one of the most masked interests in any government than the one now running out of the left green, never. Actually, I haven't looked for any light in my life, but I'm not sure I'm going well to find it. We have just seen that by the middle of the noonday, a split second cut was able to extend 25 billion dollars. A promise when the firms of industry broke down and challenged the government. I don't know how they did it, maybe they didn't even have to bother. Maybe it's just that they're all so fucking close, maybe 25 billion in one day. But drawing out 25 million cans required blood, sweat, and tears. which was divided into nine relief agencies to feed poor people. I'm really offended. Here comes the silk cap, with all due respect, coming up and talking about the coming elections, and here comes the election debate after the next. I fear that what comes out of the ballots of September will come about by the year to give the people exactly the same, this group for which the people's party is fighting, and we've seen an elected period of time: poverty. In this case of Covid, the dollar has dropped by less than 20% since the end of the year, it has gone straight into the prices, the most direct way into the prices. The diet system has increased by tens of percent since the millennium; 6.43% this day just between months. And every Icelander, maybe not those who have enough money but at least Those who find it hard to buy food that is hard for salt in the grass have noticed that from day to day, they have paid more for the small things that can be placed in the basket. What is the government doing about it? Yeah, you just know what? The annual index correction should be made on January 1 which has been cut off on social security, 3.6%. Is that a raise? No, it is a legal index correction that has been observed annually, January 1, every year. Let us not forget that as they start to talk about what they are doing raising the money of the poor. It's not a raise. There's a little index correction that goes without regard to the fall of the crown and the increase in consumer products that we have to deal with, and poor people have to fight for it day by day. Who would believe this when talking about solidarity and equations? Who would believe this when it comes to pointing out how world crisis has actually brought in a growing inequities? Who would believe that in the case of some Camus cognac man, the equation is becoming greater and greater inexorable, and this is under the rule of this government. I'd like to finally mention one thing. On September 13, 2017, it was the highest. Prime Minister, then Senator, in this speaker here, and what did she say to you, my dear nation? Allowing poor people to wait for righteousness is the same as denying it for righteousness. And what are we looking at today? We observe precisely that when this fine senator is at the helm of prime minister in this government, they make poor people wait for justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u10	Good listeners. Together, Iceland will be able to cope with the consequences of Covid-19. Together, the world gets through them. You see, it is with this challenge, like all the majors, that it calls for a concerted effort on all of us. Here at the council, it appeared even now. in that the state, which is just all of us together, is shouldered as much as possible because of the epidemic rather than by individuals. There we in this room need to do much better. Although the response to temporary emergency situations is the response to the pandemic, it is important that we look beyond the road and use the opportunity to lay the foundation of a future society. Green and good society in which variety thrives. Too many of the action taken up to this maintaining unchanged system, whether inconsistencies or equality, has been far too small for government action. The Paris Convention requires that countries regularly increase their ambitions for the latest scientific research. And now it's day of renovation. Norwegians reacted this way this spring by increasing their emissions targets from 40% to 55%. However, Iceland's Environment Minister observed that the government would set a higher limit in the years to come. The United Nations is often traveling at the speed of the snail, but there it seems that Iceland is moving even slower. The Paris Convention calls for updated climate targets this year - not ever in the years to come. The Treaty states that Iceland can be a strong international voice by setting ambitious climate goals. Did people mean, then, that other countries were foreplayers and Iceland was in their backs? In the fall, as before, all too often, the public raised a ravine for refugees. After protesting an Egyptian family's speech, the eyes of the administration were opened, and the case ended successfully. But the system has to be fixed. So it was good to hear a minister mention in his speech that a methodology in evaluating the welfare of the children in flight would be revised. There's no need for that. At the same time, it is noted that in the winter Constitution, the prime minister of justice is again to increase efficiency in the payment of the trustees. The bill about throwing people out of the country more quickly. Of course, it is important that people get their conclusions as soon as possible. Of that we all agree. But once the public has spoken against refugees, it's not because they think the system is inexplicable, it's because he's offended by the inhuman walls that have been built in Iceland to keep people out. Children who escape should be allowed to stay here and thrive. But Iceland also needs just more people, immigrants of all types. To build up the future Iceland, we don't need a wall at the border. Iceland's underage. Before the majority of us begin to become a source of restraint, we should be much more inclined to set goals for reasonable growth by welcoming new Icelanders. We could make a plan on how we can be a million people making up this community in Iceland. Wouldn't that be great? It would be a plan to fill the country with fresh sights and opportunities.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u11	My fellow Americans. The winter ahead is going to be hard for many of us. The global epidemic will continue. Love can weaken, and life can be weakened. We here at the General Assembly need to make decisions that involve the health of the people of the country and also the security of people, the conditions for education and social relations. The situation ahead requires that the people who are going to play on behalf of Iceland agree on where to go. The defense is tight, the middle of view is active, and the way to go is bold. The protection measures must be protected, but they must also protect the health and welfare system. Now, the health system does not need to be maintained. Rather, it does take a substantial amount of injection that is far beyond what has already been foretold. Thus we will follow the steps of our neighboring countries, who have placed far higher financial hills than we have in strengthening our health systems during this great stress. The ideals must be to use the power of the State, for when it comes to the commercial situation, the State must take over, not with urgency, but with force. Such measures must take into account our commitments in climates and will help us to prepare for the future with clear action. That's what other countries do. We're supposed to do the same. The batch of the pandemic must be green. There has to be a green realism here. International models that there are green jobs and that we will follow. The innovation policy needs to be updated and made much more selective, in line with the increase in money for innovation, and we need a special job effort for young people. The other side of the application is about making much more bold and more radical decisions already on the climate. Much better has to be done in energy exchange than is now being done, as the president of the European Commission writes in his latest fistula. He calls for clearer measures to complete the energy exchange if we are to fulfill the Paris Convention's objectives. There's a lot to do. There is an emergency in the face of disaster. When it comes to nature protection, the establishment of a central national park is one of the biggest and most important matters in this council. It will be interesting to see if those members of the council who have stood in the way of the case so far and are able to prevent it will continue to do so. Good citizens of the country. There is a measure of human society. He is the way we treat those who are less fortunate, whether we bring about poverty, whether we support those who need support to enjoy a decent life, how we welcome people who are looking for us for international protection from wars, persecutions, extremes, or the consequences of climate change. Icelandic society is supposed to be a human society that does not have 200 people waiting in line on Thursday afternoon for feeding. Icelandic society is not supposed to drive children or children's families from foreign lands, and much of the public does not want this harshness, as a recent poll shows people's positive attitude toward our fellow citizens of foreign origin. It also shows the cohesive power of thousands who refused to expel children. What a disappointment it is, then, to see the laws of the Justice Minister on foreigners in the Constitution, a bill that is severely criticized by human rights organization! We need more humanity in this suit, something we've been waiting for these three years since the government promised. Meanwhile, it has been necessary to struggle repeatedly for the fact that children who have taken root are not to be expelled from the land and from safety. Icelandic society is to put their arms around all those who may be with an open embrace, allow strong human society to grab people in difficult circumstances, and ensure equal opportunities for all of us, no matter where we come from and who we are. The crowning virus has exposed us to the fact that we are not in the same boat, as the minister of finance recently declared. However, we are all in the same storm, as Greta Thunberg reminded us, whether it is a crowning virus epidemic, the effects of climate change, or a financial crisis. If there is something we should learn from the pandemic, it is more empathy, harmony, tolerance, and love of neighbor. But we also need to decide how to rebuild our society. That's what we're here for. That society must be built up with green solutions for the future and humanable means for all of us. Iceland has every chance to do that. - I wish you good luck on challenging assignments.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u12	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. In the response of the Government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter to the Korean epidemic, there have been emphasises on the rights and interests of employee, emphasis on equality, emphasis on innovation, education, and mental health, and emphasis on climate, nature protection, and easy transport. Thus, we look for shorter and longer in our actions. The government's resistance has green accents and contributes to a green revolution. In effect, it speeds it up and adds to what was already begun before the Korean virus was angry that it can truly be said that environmental protection was a high priority in the history of this government. In the case of financial contributions, they have increased by 47% between 2017 and 2021, as shown in a financial program. A respectable president. In climate, serious consequences of climate change are to be prevented. Last June, as well as the executives of the board, I gave the most ambitious plan of action on the climate that Iceland and I have had, but it shows that Iceland will be more successful in 2030 than our international commitment requires of us. The new EEA preliminary statistics show that greenhouse gas emissions have fallen from roadways for the first time this year since 2014. Never before have others made good use of eco-friendly methods of transportation by electric cars, bicycles, electric bikes, and electric bikes. Never has a part of pure energy cars been higher in recent registrations. But we are also taking important steps in other areas of climate, including In wastes, with large increases in agriculture and forestry, in fishing roads, and in agriculture, with increased innovations, increased vegetable production, and with a city line. This week the government introduced a tax charge to green investments, which is a very successful step for the future. In all sectors, there's been action. The result is: Climate change has occurred during this ideal period. It creates space and the ability to deal with further commitments in climate. Good citizens of the country. Katrín's government, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, has given tremendous importance to the innovation and development of basic research. Some things just need to rethink, look for new ways, and new opportunities. I think, for example. that there are high costs of environmental integration and agriculture, and to establish the hopes that climate-related projects, nature protection and agriculture can become a model for changing the support systems into agriculture, where support would be much more associated with the success of environmental farmers. A respectable president. During this term, I have stressed the increase in the number of peace - related areas in Iceland. Important areas, such as Geysir, Gordras, and the Cheringos, have now been declared at peace. It's economically practical. In preparing a highland park, I have had many important discussions with a number of people about these plans. All these people are supposed to love the highlands, and they want to be part of the local program. It contains something of great value. With a highland national park, we have the opportunity to protect one of the largest wildernesss in Europe and a priceless landscape for future generations. A highland park also includes an increase in public activity in the region and building up to receive and instruction to tourists. A highland park will create tourism in Iceland as the largest national park in Europe and could become one of the cornerstones of rebuilding the industry after the crown virus. Now it turns out that this is the largest environmental protection project in Iceland to appear before the General. Good citizens of the country. The crown virus has shown us what our whole existence is intertwined, not just ours in Iceland, but the rest of the world. The same is true in climate and climate, but the Korean virus has also shown us what we are capable of when we work at it and learn. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u13	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. About my year 2013, the government under Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunoug, took over. The government noticed the ideal period of countless bad decisions that often seemed to be intended to bring on old political opponents, to bring about the endliness of government leaders, and the purpose of bringing the nation into the European Union. Fortunately, many of these cases were saved, but economic hardships caused by unremarkable action, actions that were actually caused by the tribulations of Icelandic employment beyond what might have been, should now serve as a reminder to us how important it is to help the future again. This is what we now say is zombies in the government Constitution, zombies such as the establishment of a central national park, a bill on the legal entity of rural society. The maintenance of a cab drive should be turned to the head of a mid-summer, and so on. It was interesting to listen to the candidate of the Agency's team come here a great deal earlier because he claimed that a policy was now being run according to a vision of the Future Party. Of course, there are a number of things that explain, and it is interesting to note that the chairman is walking in this way that the impending collapse, mass failure, closing of the country, reading boys, scrambling older citizens, and for a long time, there is a policy driven under the standards of the forwarding party. A respectable president. Much has been made to grow in public investments, but what is reality? The Hagsjá National Bank, published at the beginning of the week, points out that 14% decrease is in the official investment during the first six months of the year compared with the same period last year. There's not a sound here. It's not a picture together. The government's information panel should take a special look at this. The central category has already presented proposals to reduce income taxes in the individual population. The key is to increase the amount of dollars people have left with their own resources. The government has to stop thinking, so money left in a person's pocket and in business accounts is lost money. We're supposed to lower the insurance rate quickly and I'm talking about a loss, not just a few bucks. We have to be careful of the government's operation. It is not acceptable to wait on these actions until professional life is brought on by high taxes and the cost of complex regulations. We must not operate the Icelandic economy into such hardships... that people will be better off looking for a mate: I am a government worker. My fellow Americans. If you are a member of your partner search group, you can only mention the prime minister of social and child care, where you can still add to your premeditation in regard to the exchange of rights for maternity. We in the Central Party believe the right to be the right thing to do for the child and for the child. Therefore, since parents agree on such matters, we suggest that the parents themselves be assigned to switch between them during the months set aside. The parents are most likely to know what is best for the child. A respectable president. The good people of the country. It is impossible to say a few words about the Covid pandemic and how you react to the virus. The effect is tremendous. An entire industry is now fighting for its lives, and many others are affected by a massive blow that is either eliminated from the position of tourism or from the virus and the decisions of governments here in Iceland and the countries where we most deal with and deal with. The community can be viewed as one huge board with a thousand gauges. During the past few months, the Covid-19 statistical scale has been focused on one measure, while countless others and the importance of the dead are left between parts. There is a situation that can no longer exist. During the trinket daily meeting, it would probably be good for the discussion to include visitors. over legalities, the number of suicides, increased attendance at mental - health professionals, the development of alcohol consumption in the country, the number of bankruptcyes, unemployment rates, and so on. We have to look at the bigger picture. My fellow Americans. Politicians need to take a deeper discussion of where to go and how to get there. We do not deserve to accept responsibility for these factors. It is beneath the council to accept that major decisions are made for months without any material discussion here at the council, including the Council. Various civil rights are being pushed aside. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u14	A respectable president. My fellow Americans. Hope Strengthens a Discouragement Hope upset, Hope Every Night The light of hope shines. Hope in me Where I live The best of hearts wealth. Hope never flees from me Until I'm dead. Thus, in the 19th century, Páll Ólafsson about hope, the insurmountable power that we now need in the face of today's challenging challenges. And the lights of hope are on many places - they are bound by artists who help us interpret and express incomprehensible conditions and are a community group that especially needs to remember. They are linked to the scientists who help us identify and understand the visitor's location in order to control his work, and they are another group to make sure that they have a farm. It burns with those who care for sick people, helping them to reach health, and it burns with all those who walk to their work every day and who are in need. And the light of hope also needs to be a guide in coming building up. It is also good to remember the baseline rates of policy development as it developed elsewhere in the North countries: to always try to find a fair and just exchange of quality and burden, to put public interests ahead of selfish interests, to promote well - being, and to exercise a reasonable economy where responsibility remains in strict cooperation. Equality is a responsible way out of the problem. Clearly, now the out - of - date teachings of the new free mind are not enough. The responsible way out of the problem is to ensure the minimal survival of those who are ill after losing a job or who have to rely on help. This is not only true because poverty is not to be seen in our rich society but also because it stimulates the economy. The responsible way is to increase unemployment rates so that they reach the minimum wage will be impossible to tell unemployed people just to look for work when there is no work. The responsible way is to give money to create jobs, support small companies based on clever ideas, appeals, and passions. The responsible way is to provide funds for further education in order to make the best of a good, productive life in the future. The responsible course is to make a major effort to make the best way of living for usually some future life. The responsible course is also to stop listening to the self - interest price and to adopt Euro as currency and go all the way into the European Union, where all of our major business countries are and agree on the market rules for international giants and national criminals like us. The responsible course is that the nation will gain real gain from its resources. A respectable president. This morning, the newsletter revealed that the government's ministers have the same trust as Donald Trumps's follow-up numbers here on the country. Such distrust of those in authority can directly be dangerous democracy. Voteers feel that they cannot trust that their vote really strengthens the political policy they favor. You may choose a left category which leads to a selected category, which reduces capital tax and raises the financing market for inheritance tax. This government, known as the one called, may well claim to run the entire spectrum of Icelandic politics, but its colors are missing so many colors that it really resembles more fog than a rainbow. My fellow Americans. Each night the light of hope is lighted by hope. Let us consider them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u15	A respectable president. At the beginning of the year, I was optimistic. I thought that we were well equipped for the slight recession that was expected to end up without the debt of state any more quickly than here in Iceland. Government funds had been raised, biographies had been obtained, taxing on people and businesses had declined. Thus, economic government had given historically low interest levels and had increased the financial resources of the people. We were ready for what was about to happen, but soon we all realized that the project was much bigger than anyone had anticipated. But I am still optimistic, not only because we have lived for the better but also because we Icelanders know how to deal with tragedy and failure. But I appreciate the gods that we have not lived in the financial policy of the Controversies and Pirata in recent years. They just felt nothing important about paying off the debt of the state when it was well worked out and wanting to pay extra expenses on every occasion. But it is likely more likely to be important to voters than to gods. The government funds have well been held in the years of the Bjarni son of Benediktsson of the Ministry of finance, and we have room to strike with the aim of growing fast and safely out of the crisis. But money does not grow on trees, and of course, there are limits to how long and how much money can go on. That is where we need to be alert in this room. The discussion here must be not about command and empty phrases but about real and reasonable ways to create resistance and reduce federal debt as soon as it is better. The effects of the virus are not only economic but first and last social. The Icelandic people have shown fellow feeling. We've learned new customs and new habits. Instead of shaking hands and kissing, we drown ourselves, and we bow down. And we've made many sacrifices, but our systems have passed through the raid. Indeed, the much - tested health system has been a marvel of coping with the pressures. As never before, the health groups showed what they can do, changed, and adapted their service to the position. But there was more. Icelandic genetic analysis, a private business based on knowledge and science, has helped to identify samples, and there is no world to show as good a perspective on status as on virus development as there is on land. Science is important to us, and it proved as never before, but also the importance of looking beyond the ranks of the government and promoting normal cooperation between private, innovation and government personnel. There's a chance for another parish. Costs should continue to be paid from mutual funds, but it would be a waste of not using the power of innovation, the pioneers who live in individuals to improve and make our infrastructure even better. Technology and communication are increasingly new in the medical system, and the entire nation has only a short time learned to use the beauty of this technology. The opportunity for further development in this area is high, and there's Icelandic innovations and pioneers developing good solutions to our use. But eventually we all come up, and we all look forward to getting rid of the virus from society, and that's going to happen. We want to go back to so many things in our conduct, but remember that at this time we have learned things, and we use them to make society even better. Here, we need to secure another healthy, open, safe society. We need to protect our jobs and give our career opportunities to create new jobs. We need to give the people of the country freedom to create their own opportunities, and that is government policy. The crisis we now have is not a cent or a constitution to teach, so the solution cannot be found there. But in spite of the virus and the terrible news that we have every day because of its spread, we must not forget other battles that we are experiencing. Today, as never before, the green earth is melting, and snow is no longer protruding, even though global warming is stopping today. Arctic ice has never been measured, and in just a few years the ice has decreased over an area of France, Spain, Germany, Poland, and Italy combined. The government has already put these issues in the first place and measures to cope with climate change and their impact on the environment. The ambitious, practical, and well - funded programmes for noncarbon are clear evidence of this. Climate change is a major factor in the health of the ocean, the acidification of the sea, the fishing system, and the need to study more fully and to know what we can expect. We need to be on guard against the precious food box that resides in the sea around us for future generations. One thing is to deal with the climate threat by reducing emissions and promoting environmental life - styles, and it is important. However, it is not as important to prepare for the inevitable changes that will affect our environment. We need to make sure that our infrastructure, such as the seaways, roads, electric lines, bridges, and shelters meet the challenges of climate change, which is a guarantee to us. Despite the threat of climate crisis, however, there is reason to be optimistic about the future. There is no need for apocalyptic prophecy. We know more than ever about the effects and causes. We must listen and respond. How nice it would be if we could all be together on that line, but the Central Party uses every opportunity to minimize the climate, now or complicated, and to minimize discussions about solutions. Let's talk clearly, stop confusing things and focus on practical, sustainable solutions. Man's mental faculties have no limits - that intelligence, the environment, and the community are all for good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u16	President. Dearest nation. We live in times that call for social self - opinion, and we have a unique opportunity to look in the mirror and ask ourselves, " Is the community we have created the world as we would like to have it? ' Is our community's prize of real value? I don't know if the nation needs it. changing values? Or is it possible that only governments that reflect more fully the nation's true values will be needed? You see, my experience is that although the government claims to share values with the nation, its actions tell a whole different story. In fact, the government is quite good at saying one thing and then doing something else altogether. They're calling, for example. constantly depending on the people's solidarity, they are never ready to join in. V.E.G. The prime minister calls for solidarity during difficult times and at the highest. A financial minister says that working with people who wanted to keep up the pay raise of their lifetime contracts, they need to realize that we are all in the same boat. But when Pirats and I proposed to freeze the pay raise of an elected representative earlier this year, this town had less solidarity and seamanlike odds. The Ministers attended their 115,000 charges. a raise in pay, and their conversation about solidarity did not apply to them themselves. Dearest nation. When a prime minister said in his perpetuating address that the role of politicians is primarily for the community as a whole, it is important to consider the fate of whom we must ask ourselves why the fate of the Egyptian children to be dismissed was of no importance to them. When asked about the fate of these children, she said that she was not involved in unique matters, was not the first deportation, and that we would not oppose all the children who are looking here for protection, and that the task of politics is to build up a human - looking system rather than to intervene in unique matters. But its only contribution to this humanitarian system is repeated and inhuman effort to weaken the rightness of refugees and children and to facilitate their exodus in the form of a bill that Pirantar and others in the government stand have had to be stopped over and over again with great effort. And again it stands to move this thing into this house. If so, may I rather ask that the management team do as little as they do every time they drive their senator to the South American Circle Rollers to search for security on Facebook. Perhaps the biggest mistake of the Egyptian children was that they did not just send e - mails to the highest level. Seafaring minister because he appears to be at least Do not hesitate to take advantage of specifics and to provide regulations for confused whale hunters or perhaps their greatest mistake was to be just children, not those of the earth who pay maximum grants to the Independence Party. Dearest nation. This government says one thing but does another. They say nothing more important than securing jobs and paying billions of dollars to keep employees, but they pay the same companies more than one billion to run the same staff shortly after. Here we hear prime minister being proud of having the vast opportunity of scholars to pursue his search for knowledge with increased financial contributions for research. But her love of academic freedom for these same scientists was nowhere in the summer when a minister of finance prevented a scholar who was not pleased with him from getting a editor position in foreign lands. And this government claims to be feminists, and they back it up for her-cakes for the cameras. However, when women's groups call for compensation, there is no sympathy, neither with hundreds of women whom the nation's ideal child is in the middle of negotiations nor with the women who present a pandemic health system for close reference. Dearest nation. Piratar and I have regularly had our community's values examined, and year after year, people give high priority to good health, well - funded, well - funded health systems. In spite of this, the National Hospital has had to live with rigid standards year after year. In spite of this, our health system has been funded. In spite of this, we have a financial minister who repeatedly fails to negotiate with nurses. It doesn't have to be this way. We don't need a government to bless the disfellowshipping of children and allow Rasism within its ranks. We don't need a government that dishonors women's classes. We don't need a government that says one thing and does another. We can choose governments that share values with the nation. We can choose a better, more honest, more righteous future, but we must have the courage to choose a new option in the booth. We can have the community we want to have, we just have to decide.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u17	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. Nothing in the world is more beautiful than happy children who enjoy compassion, love, confidence, and optimism. Children who know they have opportunities in good family life. Our biggest task in Congress is to do all we can to increase this happiness, ensure that children receive education from young to adulthood, create a setting that will bring out the best for each child, and thus make the best for the future. In many parts of the world, today's pandemic has decomposed school activities. Some children may not have gone to school since February and may not be on their way there in the near future. The interiors of society have resisted the unprecedented challenge. The importance of the school system is unspoken in this context, both for education and for the happiness of children as well as for the overall work that really exists, and for the school work. The reaction of teachers and school directors at all school levels in the most challenging times during spring, and late autumn, as well as the combinedness that still identifies students and their families, will be well - known. The results of the combined school ministry are many. For example, it has been amazing that in many places the elimination of students in high school is lower than it is on a normal year trip. Teachers and instructors have especially cared for those who are most endangered and have managed to keep them in touch with the material. The goal is that no child is left behind in the school system. All children have the strengths that the school system should show up if necessary, making sure that a person gets the tools he has the right to use. Of course, our situation affects school, where school social roles are unspoken, and it is interesting to see our young people experiencing the importance of attending school. To them, school attendance is no longer a requirement but an important right they want to use. This week I met a promising high school student at Selephoss, who said: "Everyone's excited to get to school. Even then, such a statement would have come as a surprise. The schools are also crucial for many who now experience loss of employment, for many have decided to use their time to learn, even in new ways. This indicates a new beginning and a new era. The attitude toward education displayed in the budget bill is a cause for joy. Increasing investments in education will produce good fruitage, both for individuals and for society. The same can be said of increased financial resources, since man certainly does not live on the bread alone. As cultures, we need spiritual nourishment as well as physically, and it is a joy to be able to be more imprisoned in the field of culture during the new year. In Iceland, there are fine artists who carry Iceland's husk around the world, actors, artists, and musicians who have reached the highest reputation. Let us remember that people who receive the Oscar Prize for their art not only earn respect but also follow the opportunity for land and nation, the sheer value we can use to improve our community and increase our wealth and strengthen the fourth export. Such a multiplicity effect has been seen in the results of athletes, individuals, and joints who have inspired optimism. They have artists and athletes in common, and they have shown by hard work and hard work that anything is possible. Good citizens of the country. That lesson we take with us during the last election season, a assembly that I believe will be marked by modern practices and cooperation for the benefit of the families of the country. The Family Agency is looking forward to its cooperation and is prepared for winter. - Good times, my fellow Americans.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u18	Mr. President. Good listeners. We're dealing with a heavy unemployment crisis. A number of jobs have nearly been wiped out, and many have suffered a severe blow. The other effects of the crown virus on our daily lives are also strong, and here, as elsewhere, there is naturally increasing debate over the overlap of freedom to action and then the government's efforts to prevent the spread of the virus. This situation will focus on the council winter, but here, in the political field, the estimated election in the year will, of course, do the same. Yet, in the policy of the leader of the government, there was little effort on the part of politicians. In fact, it is the mark of this government, this little political conversation - which is actually limited to the political issue of the government. Of course, the prime minister's policy debate was positive, e.g. A promise that government funds would be used to create resistance to public and professional life. It spoke of acts of defending work and of promoting the potential for more people. Words of green resistance, support for high - tech technology, and knowledge industry. I hope it's not going to be empty. So I hope to say the words and actions of this government have not been properly compatible. In the new analysis of the Land Bank, e.g. reports more than 17% decrease in investments between years of state funds, across the multi-investment struggles of the government. And there is still an investment campaign. Prime Minister mentioned the government's plan of action on climate matters. The government is proud of its ambitions for the plan; others are puzzled by the lack of ambition. In particular, restoration is critical that the government plan is largely bypassed by the largest land use component. There is little effort to resolve these issues in cooperation with farmers and landowners. We have done good work when it comes to our reactions, decisions, and measures in our health - care system. For this, the whole nation is grateful. In some cases, the number of people in the United States is still increasing. the strength of a small, dense community - cooperation and solidarity - which is the approach of the strongest weapon. It has helped people to have information on the situation, on action, and on reasons for which ways they have taken action. But when it comes to dealing with the economic consequences of the virus, when it comes to measures to protect jobs, protect homes and businesses, the government's response is both weak and uncertain. These historical times have shed light on certain failures in our system. The government has chosen to paralyze the council. The opportunity for political discussions with ministers is very limited, and in fact none, if the Ministers themselves do not have the will to take the discussion. But in the middle of a pandemic, the General Assembly will have to do its job, accept the responsibilities we are given, discuss, and work on ideas with the common goal of putting society out as soon as possible and safely out of this crisis. Perhaps the government has felt that it would be quick to keep the cards tight and avoid conversation with the Council. Avoid the politics. But when the ideas are not discussed, the results are very low. And that's what we're seeing right now. The government has never gone beyond responding. When it comes to government economic actions, we do not resist contrasting with neighboring countries. Yet, all conditions are here. During our restoration, we will continue to support the economic activities that society now needs. We have provided each of us a vision of how we want to protect our community from a historical economic blow. We will also continue to point out better than ever. That's our job. But now the government has to face the council and the nation, afraid to accept the conversation. It needs to be more specific, quick, and dramatic. And most important, it needs to be willing to discuss political issues here at the council, where we are in the best interests of the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u19	A respectable president. Good citizens of the country. The Covid-19 virus has been shown to be at the highest level. Prime Minister in his policy discourse, including That we should take one step at a time, problem each one as possible, and without accident. The consequences of the virus are already prolonged and prolonged after medical treatment. A waiting period for sick people, who in most cases have to swallow strong painkillers for years, makes their health worse and worse. The people's party insists that the government, once and for all time, will free sick people from severe suffering by undergoing immediate vital action. Children wait for surgery, treatment. Children with psychiatric disorders wait months, years after treatment. Almost 1,200 children suffer without a cause in this miserable situation. Why? Their families also suffer and the foundation of their financial situation worsens as a result of government action. The people's party insists that the government ensures that no child will have to wait long for needed treatment to harm it or their family. The people's party insists that children never, and I never repeat, be on the waiting list for necessary treatment or other medical procedures. We need to make sure that defense against Covid-19 will not be too effective in causing health problems by at the same time, they are at risk of ill health or death because of other diseases that can be cured. V.E.G. According to one prime minister, earlier this week the government presented measures to facilitate a workforce, an agreement with the employment community that threatens not to live by the biographies agreements. Business society could not survive the rise of 24,000. a month to the lowest salaries. That's an hourly amount of people who are involved in the business community. Of course, they do not have to be helped to raise their minimum wage to $350,000. For tax, but the government needs to help those who must survive at 220,000 dollars. each month's pensions, which must be harden because of rising prices and prices for other necessities, are rising inflation and gang peace. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We're defending this well-being, says the government's pride. And she also claims to have reduced the damages and payments to those who are in the disability pension. A group of people says: "Get away from me " chain damages that are nothing more than gross financial violence against sick people and older citizens. Good citizens of the country. V.E.G. A prime minister points out that the government met the income - bearing groups of elderly people. Yes, she did, but she raised the poor people just about 90% at the minimum of a pension and then put them back on, what? - Yes, a cent against a cent for this group. Can you believe it? It's only $ 90% after that. Wow! What an ambition it is for the government to defend by all means. The people's party protests such tactics and will fight with all means to get this corrected immediately, for this is no more than a check for very few. Then, in line with the biographies, a group of people demand that older citizens and disability be immediately granted an increase in their pensions. This group of worst types was also left when others were corrected for their reward after the crash; otherwise, they should be corrected. In the middle of the Covid-19 epidemic thousands cannot afford to buy food. Those who can line up after dinner, and when all the food is gone, a large group must go home without food. Then there are those who for their health do not fit in after meals and who are in the terrible situation of being also without food at home. Good citizens of the country. The government today, from Pontíus Pílatus to Pontius Pilate, looks for solutions to financial matters but does not realize that Pontíus Pílatus is one person, i.e. Business organization. In the meantime, the poor and older citizens, who have a heavy cross reduction and are starving from Pontius to Heródes in search of justice. But the results are worse than none. As it says, the pensioner with the tax is starving against a stake, unable to pay the tax chain because he has no money. With your head on an empty stomach, your stomach on shoes, your government's rolling around and saying, "This one's never gonna get enough." - Have a good time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u20	Good citizens of the country. Now that we begin the last winter of the season, we would do well to review what solid harmony is on the basis of building on the interiors of society was important when the government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, was formed. That certainly meant health and education, transportation, travel, and nature protection. The needs were more urgent than cooperation with the Independence Party or maintenance of a simple matter. Another was the promotion that has been involved in many left governments. The result is that there have been radical changes in health care and extensive structure, and when the Covid wave hit, the health system showed what was in it with flexibility and predestination. True, part of the government's opposition is repeatedly trying to talk the health system down, but happily, that language is pointless. But now, winning the virus is the most important thing. I want to use this opportunity to thank health - care professionals everywhere, health scientists, and especially the land surgeon's office for great work day and night. There's a lot going on. In the history of this government, and now the last human rights of the Intersex children in a new bill that is a matter of retreating and pathetic prejudice, spoken by the Middle Party president, here repeatedly. The class stands for what it stands for. A key element of cooperation is that the prime minister is president of VG. It's almost no matter which case has come up. They always call Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Then it doesn't matter if the problem is about refugees or jobs markets. First, ask: What does Katrín do? What's the cause of the left green? Others claim Katrín only does what Bjarni son of Benediktsson wants. I'm not going to dwell on the profound, feminine contempt in it. The fact is, everyone sees that when problems arise, Katrín has taken the lead in her political solution. It has power, endurance, will, and political sharpness to solve the most complex issues in good solidarity, not just occasionally, but every day over and over again. Now, the last time professional organizations upset biographies. It is searching for a leader as powerful as the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir. Thousands of families face a difficult winter, unemployment, poverty, and income crisis. I can't imagine how many people have to wait for hours to get their food in line. This must be changed, no one should fall asleep hungry in our rich country. Now, it is important to have a wide range of solidarities to strengthen the position of the unemployed and to increase the number of opportunities for employment and education. There we need to take on unusual ways, such as shortening our hours of work in order to distribute jobs to more people and by calling more people to work in service and innovation for society. It is obvious that each year's election will deal with these issues, the public's standard of living in a wide sense. Good citizens of the country. Contracts are required, says President ASI. The prime minister and the government have seen to it that the Life Treaty Treaty is held. The next revision of the collective agreements will be in September and there will be elections. They'll be elected to live in the country. There will be biogradations. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u21	Mr. President. Good Icelanders. As expected, much was said during a policy discussion by the prime minister. But it's not exactly the highest. When discussing the issues of the elderly, a minister has drawn near to the flight. Her government has proved to be virtually inadequate to reduce the damage to social insurance. The central category emphasizes the constant attention to the loss of employment. People should be allowed to improve their interests through increased work without such impairment. Patriarchal penalties, in effect, involve a recording of the pension savings and undermine faith in the pension system. Aged underpayers are left to the level of people who have not paid to a retirement fund in their working years. Remunerations in a pension fund reveal the people like any tax but not a contribution to improve their rates after the end of their working years. This is what the Central Party wants to change and prepare for a Senate hearing to do so. The generation that is about to arrive or is retired was promised that money from a pension fund would improve its interests in later years. Mr. Sheriff. That promise must be fulfilled. The middle class wants the elderly to be enabled to live in their extended homes. This requires that local service be extended to the elderly. The middle class also feels that when the elderly are no longer able to live at home without support, there is room for medical care and therefore a campaign to raise more nursing homes for the elderly. Mr. President. In the last few weeks and months, the issues of trustees have been promoted in public discussions. It is important to discuss these matters with carefulness and a successful compromise in the seminary. It is shown that the management board is unable to handle the task of the Independence Party, and it is a long period of payment in many cases the most clear witness in this matter. In recent years, the cost of a Kingdom treasure has increased according to the law of power growth. This must be done in order to show proper authority in the government. The central category does not accept the same situation and wants to use the experience of neighboring countries that have taken various measures to correct the situation. Mr. President. We don't want the unemployment crisis to affect the population. We would like to engage in a campaign to improve the road system, airports, ports, bridges, and other such workforces. Here are large sums of money for successful projects. To finance such projects, it can be seen that the Kingdom establishs a society that uses knowledge and intelligence to raise the country in this respect. Such a society might approach the public and offer pension funds of interesting investments that came to their credit. This would also be in harmony with the need for the funds to make long - term donations for the benefit of an older partner. Mr. President. The future is bright in the beautiful land. We need to fulfill our obligation to young, up - to - date generations who are facing great challenges and opportunities. Everything depends on the rightness of the situation. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u22	My fellow Americans. First, I'd like to welcome the highest interest. The secretary of transportation and the head of the advance party for the Community's work, welfare, and green future. Such a vision is not revealed in the government's financial program. It is not supported by people who have lost their jobs. Strategies for development and growth of activities are affected, and increasing environmental spending between the years is just about 0.1% of gross domestic product. 0.1% of prime minister on duty talking about a green revolution. V.E.G. Minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, knows as well as we do in the United States that we could do so much better, but possibly he's only in the wrong company. Mr. President. V.E.G. Prime Minister announces changes in the laws of government that she trusted to pass through the governments. Its suggestions seem to be based on those who insist on not changing and, in particular, nothing about the use of the nation's resources. It is quite remarkable that the nation, together to live at all costs of society's business, should be judged to allow the interest of their resources to flow almost unscrupulously into the pockets of only a few users or their descendants. The prime minister's bill does not include time limits on the private use of resources or clear rules for paying the owner, the Icelandic nation, the full price for use. It's not possible. The General Assembly is simply going to do the will of the nation that appears in the national pay of October 20, 2012. Another is democracies and total GPA in the Generals' work. There is another law in the constitution that I want, by permission of the president, to quote, and that is this: The children shall be ensured by the law of protection and care required of them. There are no children left out there, not children to flee, not children with disability, not children who have been violent, and not poor children. Recently, the persistence of a lawyer and civilians who did not stop being loud managed to stop the expulsion of children who came here for protection. Unfortunately, the government did not save them. Instead, it pointed to the system as if it were an independent, unchanging booth that no one could handle. But the system is man's work, and the government is obliged to do it both efficient and humane so that it does not violate the rights of its citizens. Consider another example from the system. 1,193 children all over the country wait for the diagnosis and treatment of mental illness and 19 children, tolerance of sexual abuse, waiting to be treated in a child's house for trauma. How can this be? Children's agent is also concerned with seeing in the new UNICEF report how the status of children in Iceland is far less than that in neighboring countries. The report covers the 24th of the 38 children in regard to mental and physical health, study, and social skills. Mr. President. A system that doesn't work is not the laws of nature. It is a political decision to fail to finance and to provide adequate human resources for the necessary organizations, thus having the responsibility to control one another. In a pandemic, unemployment rates are increasing rapidly, and those who need the food most are needed. In the United States, we have proposed proposals for an increase in basic employment benefits to protect families in the country that have now lost their livelihood. But no, the government groups don't rely on it, not even temporarily, as we requested. Mr. President. My fellow Americans. Poor, too, is not a natural law. Poverty is a political decision. We need a courageous government that dares take action to save those in need. That's what they were for.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u23	A respectable president. Good listeners. I'd like to weigh just against the negative that I'd felt was a characteristic of a lawsuit far too many of the government opposers here tonight with a little story from the real world. This illustration is about tomatoes, tourists, and initiatives. In smokeholtti, Bishops, a town in the Blue Forest, there is a family business called the World of Peace. Fifteen years ago or so, they began to grow whole - souled and to do well. Out of collapse, 10 years ago, they began to support themselves in a travel service in order to increase the intensity of the business. It is far too bad to say that in all the developments that occurred in the following article, the ratio turned around; the tourism became 75% of the business, but the tomatoes grew by 25%. Some 180,000 visitors arrived in the World World World Bank last year, with about 60 employees. This is a major activity in the 300 - man society of smokeholt. In spring, there were good advice for animals. It was headed for 75% of the business to the ground. The closest one would have been cutting everything down and screwing the business back to 25%, but the family in the World wouldn't have done that. They reasoned that although the tourists would not make it this summer, Icelanders would continue eating tomatoes. And they did so with all their might. Buy land, and use the CovidSum to build a 5,600 square - foot - square - square - foot - wide greenhouse. During the next month, we will start planting tomatoes in the new house. And they are also ready to welcome the tourists when they return. And what can we learn from this illustration? First, we can use this story to learn something about tomatoes. In Iceland, we produce about 40% of the consumption itself, but we move 60% in. Remember, tomato is 92% water - this is, in fact, mainly the import of water from abroad. In Iceland, tomatoes are cultivated with clean water, renewable electricity, and geothermal heat. If you drive your product into electrical trucks, there will be no carbon track in the whole process. In foreign lands, tomatoes are often produced by waste water that is often not being used for the first time; fossil fuels energy is being exported here by oil - powered ships and airplanes. Which product do we want to use? Second, this may be the prime reason for the parable, and we see how effective individuals respond to external events with ingenuity, initiative, and courage to turn their situation into a favor. I'm fully aware that not everyone, both people and businesses, has circumstances to deal with the Covid events as upbuilding as the people in history. Many people are painless, and we need to prepare for it. Do not forget, though, that we as a nation have never been so equipped to cope with the external events as we do right now. And even though we are now in the middle of the wave valley, I am convinced that it is bright ahead of us. - Good times.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u24	My fellow Americans. If we look to the future and consider what must be done now so that the future will be better, then government action will not be surprising. Those who do not learn from history are doomed to repeat it. The political affairs of the power parties have made us debts of broken promises. Time and again, we hear the same promise about the same projects. Some projects that are now being accomplished were promised decades ago. Today, we cannot afford to wait for decades for what is needed today to improve the future. There are still hollow roads all over the country and molded housing. It's the entrance debt. We also owe the pension of social security, which has cost about a dozen percent since the turn of the century and is further demeaning in the financial bill we saw today. There are no biographies for people who rely on pensions for a living. We have a climate debt we need to pay right away. Otherwise, that debt will weigh heavily on future generations. My fellow Americans. The democracy is important. In each election, we ask for health systems all over the country. We pray for transportation all over the country, but we get only debts of broken promises. We also ask for guidelines for rulers, promote democracy, responsibility, and transparency. We'll use our votes to ask for a new constitution, but nothing will happen. History should have taught us that politics promises and promises and then does nothing. The ruling groups do not fulfill their promises until decades later when it is too late. History should have taught us that the Icelandic government will only give us debts while the best friends of the world get their bites of meat. In each election, we see a large-developed power party leaping over to a new social security number with the same promises as the last time they should have just gone bankrupt. We are not to accept a broken promise, and therefore we should take the initiative in a constitution, that the voters can present a matter of Congress on their own. We're not supposed to accept the mastery of power, so we're gonna put a lawsuit in a constitution. We're not supposed to accept discrimination. That's why we always vote in the constitution. Our own constitution is a 76-year-old promise. Our own constitution is a great idea for the next book for An Ævar. My fellow Americans. The opportunities are still over. Science and education are the driving force for progress. The progress of science could be more progressive and better if politics had any understanding of the importance of basic research in the structure of a high-tech and knowledge community. Even if the government of the United States is in a state of confusion, society does not. You see, the private enterprise doesn't care about which clay is in, and that's where I'm dealing with real enterprise, not the ones hanging in the skirts and begging billions of dollars out of common funds, but those we've seen all over the country in spite of politics, such as Solid Clouds, Eim works, Genos, Genoski, Skyrora, Black Games, The Head and the Future Institute of Technology. The tragedy is that there are so many more opportunities the politicians could take, but for this, they need to understand the future, want the future, and realize that the 2.0 update was by the end of the century. Instead of looking over the Ministerial Class here behind me, all I see is a politician who thinks is a constant fixation. All I see is a lost opportunity for progress. We are not to accept lost opportunities, especially in the condition we now face. If there is ever a need to make every opportunity to do so, it is now. Invest in innovation for the future, investing in education for everyone, and making it real. The future will be different from the present, whether we like it or not. We have to do more. We must do better, much more and much better, because we must have the courage to take steps toward the future, where it will be different. We have to have the guts to go in the direction of a community that's better for everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u25	Good citizens of the country. Despite the many challenges that the Icelandic community has faced during the past month and linked to the pandemic of Covid-19, it is important not to forget other major projects that may be the exact result of our Covid-19 society is more important than ever before. I'm gonna set up one of these projects. At this fall council, which is about to begin, I will bring up major structural changes involving children and their families. I would especially like to mention new and large legislation that will contribute to the growth of children, to seize families that need to be met, and to ensure a conversation between different systems when it comes to the service of children. Along with this large system change, there will be a number of other modifications associated with this. The preparation of these changes has brought about a vast number of people with a wide and extensive knowledge of their children's affairs. This includes: What are some experts who work with our children every day and recognize the opportunities to do better, as well as individuals who know the system's services, whether from their own childhood or through their children? More than anything else, a Parapolitic Parliamentary Committee with representatives of all members of the Parliament has played an important role in this work all and has shown that we can work together across classes. You see, these issues involve all of us, and children in a more delicate position should not be all of them in a group of political lines. We wanted to start them over this group of stereochrome lines, and it's done a great job. As I mentioned earlier and will be further presented in the following weeks, these system changes will transform services to children and their families across the service system. I have been influenced by external experts to assess the effects of these changes, and it clearly shows that they will have a very positive influence on child service, ensure early intervention, and follow - up as well as a view of child prosperity becomes much better. The objective of the bill is that children and their families feel better, so they fare better and sooner with obstacles that might arise. Everything that never is more important than in times like this. What is also clearly stated in this work and the assessment of the bill is that economic benefits of causing these changes are enormous. While significant investments will need to be made over the years to ensure that change will result in results, the improvement in society as a whole is improved, including government funds, not for billions but tens of millions of dollars. In fact, this investment, investment in our children, would be the most profitable one in Iceland's history, without any negative environmental impact or other cost of sacrifice. Soon, whether we as a community will be ready for such a historic journey will be at hand. Good Icelanders. This winter will be hard for many, we know it. It's our job here at the Council and in the government to protect the people of the country, seal the grid on safety networks, and make sure we get through this together. As soon as I have full faith in our success, I consider it a very important part to ensure full - time service to children and their families, both because of present circumstances and as our best interests for the future. I look forward to discussing it further at the council here at this council that is about to begin.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u26	Mr. President. We face severe trials. It is uncertain, and many people are deeply concerned about their future and welfare. In order to reduce uncertainty and fear, you need to work diligently and in an open way so that each step is clear and what the consequences will be. The criteria for success include three: Information, consultation and careful diagnostic work. In the absence of this, there is a risk that the situation worsens, dissensions increase, and thus the result of an important solidarity. Sadly, the government has not lived up to this basic obligation. However, it still has opportunity to do better, and as soon as it becomes more important, it adds up to a solidarity of ways and goals in cooperation with stakeholders, as well as with the General Assembly. It would be in the spirit of the government covenant presented at the time with a lamp and a sword, but it appears to have been dusty in a drawer of the Council of Control. During our restoration, we have endeavored to pay the way of the government's affairs, which have been put on trial to cope with emergency problems and provide upbuilding support. We'd like to continue, but then the government has to do everything and consultation. Mr. President. It is said that there are few evil things that do not bring good things. At the same time that serious consequences are experienced shortly before, the future needs to be considered. What can we learn, and what can be done to improve our community? Are they better equipped to cope with setbacks and create new opportunities? The economic climate is too much for us to deal with when major business projects are affected. We have tried many times and certainly do so now, even though the reason is unexpected. We know what to do. New creation, technology, and science are key factors. If it's being handled with force, we'll unleash forces that will change society and make the economy and industry more diverse and dynamic. Such revolution takes time and money. The government has certainly taken steps in these matters. However, all of them are burned to the point of being too small. Mr. President. One of the government's trumps to help innovations in financial problems is called Support Crea, which includes borrowing companies if they succeed in receiving an anti-investment from investors. Immediately, at the hearing at the General Assembly, the Crucator questioned the lack of funding for the project. Today, 26 companies have passed through the needle's eye of an application procedure and have obtained free retails from investors of about 1.4 billion in return to the State's contribution. However, the Kingdom can do only half of its share. Let us not forget that we are talking about loans, not scholarships. What a disappointment this is, but sad to see! Instead of taking these big steps and financial resources, false alarms are thrown out half of a life cycle that upsets the future of these companies. This is where the government forgot it was going to do more than less. The steps are half stepd rather than taking big steps right away. And that is not the way to make real changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-10-01-2.u27	President. My fellow Americans. Here I am again. And I hope you don't think it's boring, I think it's really fun. But what I want to talk about right now is to look back and wonder: " What have we learned from previous trials? How does the government now show that she has learned something from the 2008 economic breakdown? What will the government do about the inflation, the insurance loans of families? What has the government done to keep it safe not to make sure after, to block the well before falling in? Nothing. V.E.G. A financial minister and also a nice money manager have comforted us by this, when we call out that seat belts and shoulder ties will be placed on the families of the country to prevent the horrors that are being repeated when 1,22,000,15,000 families were brought out of their homes and on the street after the last economic collapse, that nothing is being done about it, nothing. What's wrong with putting belts and bracelets on these families? What is wrong with stopping us from experiencing the same calamity? The people say, " There's nothing wrong with that. ' And first, the highest. The secretary of finance and the bank manager are so completely convinced that we have nothing to do with either, that we stand so well, the currency is in bloom, and the debt has been paid down - everything is true, it's true, it's true. We're far better off at this. As a result, we should have been in the palm of the song, and this government, should have prevented us from experiencing the same calamities that families had to face after the 2008 economic collapse. There's also something else that I'm wondering about here. Why has this government not allowed poor people, microplies, and older ones to survive by working without compromising them so that they cannot go to work, they have nothing to do with themselves? Why is there so much effort here that these people simply refrain from helping themselves? The people's party has no single word about it, because we've brought a bill after the bill and the Senate resolution proposal after a Senate resolution that all are under the control of those whose feet are in the community. And what has this government done? Take them all down. A respectable president. The good people of the country. It is not surprising that you are nearly fit. It is not surprising that you are standing here and hearing it sometimes. What have you done? You guys who are like gulps here and promise all beautiful things for yourselves? And what have you done, anyway? I say to the same ones that are green to ask such questions as these: What on earth are we going to do, a small body of council members standing in a position of government? If you want us to do something, you'd better vote for us next time. And that I can absolutely swear, as I stand here and now, that with us at the wheel the situation would never be as it is with the poor Icelanders today. Never.
