ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u1	Today, the Allied Parliamentaries and employees of the Generals' Office were presented with the results of a large survey made for the National Association of Social Sciences in the Work and Workplacers of the Generals with special emphasis on such things as harassment, sexual harassment, and sexual harassment. Participation or response was fine, and results, many of which are striking, give good reason to follow them closely and improve their status. This requires that all members of the body, members and employees, members of Congress, fasting committees, and others who can assist with the aim of improving the work of the environment and the workforce at the General Assembly and in its office. The results will be fully available on the Generals web.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u2	The President aims to start immediately after the discussions about the Council's activities on the 3rd part of the program and then try to complete a few more discussions on a matter of Congress before the day's votes are paid. They should be around the hour. 17 at the latest, except for an early discussion of the entire program.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u3	A respectable president. Lately, the situation of industry in Southnes has been a subject of much discussion in the community. In view of the situation, it is normal that nearly 30% of workers are on unemployment record. It is a real challenge to deal with the problems and problems of that unemployment. I am grateful for the response to the news that came down south, the media have discussed the situation, and the Council has made a special discussion about the situation in Southnes next week. It is good for us to inform the public and us about the situation ourselves. It is an important part of such unemployment to inform those who are unemployed about their opportunities. It takes a long time to build a job, and the opportunities don't grow at every turn. They don't come to us on orders or in advance of formalities. A person who does not ask or seek solutions will not get an answer. There are serious consequences of this breakdown of action. There's no default. We must strive to seize opportunities, and something else is not available. A respectable president. The airport will be filled with people, and tourists will flock to Iceland. Southnes are owed enough timeless opportunities for further tourism conquests. These opportunities lie in the Rhivones of Earth and nature of the region. There are also opportunities for strong employment on Southnes. Electric energy must be secure in the area to receive this opportunity. The airport and Helgavík are unique sails for the future tourism and Arctic projects. It is called for a better facility and construction in those areas. Tens of millions of projects that put Southnes on the map as key destinations for future north-landers and setting up rescue centers for the entire northern area. [[The president calls.]] But none of this will be reality if one is to wait for a formal request.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u4	Mr. President. Two big and important matters were discussed at a Senate Hall yesterday, one on the other hand paying part of the pay for the notice and one on the other, extending the partial improvement process. A significant exchange of words was made on the part of the government to prevent companies making use of a tax field to avoid paying to society's laws of taxes could take advantage of the resources available. Another factor that was discussed in the same line was that among the conditions listed in the section credit bill, there is a requirement that companies do not pay interest for the next three years, to the end of 2023. If a company that has been affected today needs help to pay off part of the income loss, pay loss, succeeding in the next three years, and beginning to be able to pay interest to the owners in the form of interest, as it were, and the vastest part of Icelandic enterprises do the right, well and clearly, and thus maintain a job life, the company should return the money it receives from the state fund of this month with stress 15%, regardless of whether the company itself is taking the initiative to bring back the pay. So this discussion took place. There are certainly more conditions than I mention this in particular, since yesterday's word exchange was a factor in the fact that executives passed the same signal between corporate interest rates and the fraud of business owners. This made it hard to believe that some members of Parliament wanted to ensure that tax frauds did not take advantage of the resources available and that these members of Parliament were at the same time putting questions on this 15% burden of guilt. This seemed to be the case with a senator who was at odds with each other's horns. Mr. President. I'm not going to draw feathers over the fact that I find this presentation to be thought - provoking and the understanding manifest at that time limited. Most of all, though, I feel that the attitude of this discussion is revealed in the case of Icelandic employment on the part of the Generals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u5	A respectable president. Unfortunately, we will remember the year 2020 not just for being the year we won the Euroviation, which was never held, but for the year that tolerated our community, the year that began with a tremendous state's office but will not end in the same way. But there are positive factors that can be taken out of all of this. This is also the year that the staff of the Land Hospital of University Hospital managed to replace their activities overnight, showing how much we are able to change and respond when needed. It is also the year when the people of the country began to move as never before, and now they are selling bicycles, hikers, and mountains that never before do, and it is a good thing, and I hope that this country will continue to do so. But I also hope that this will be the year that we use to travel the country and enjoy the elements that many of us, anyway, are often avoided by a great population and a great number of foreigners, and now it is indeed an opportunity to make use of it. We're expecting an introduction from the government and the organisations of the tourism agency, so I encourage all the people of the country to take advantage of this opportunity and travel. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson came into the Rhines earlier and the challenges faced by people there. I recently traveled through Smokejanes and had a wonderful weekend there, and it is certainly possible to recommend that the people of the country travel there, even though it is not available at Leifs station. I also hope that this is the year that we use the opportunity to ensure a more varied employment life and a society that takes into consideration the needs of man but also the needs of the environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u6	Mr. President. Some gifts are a good and national custom, giving their children some gifts, but some of them are perhaps on the higher side, some of which may be worth a hundred billion dollars in transfer from Samhera's owners to his descendants. This reflects a huge saying system with unregistered forwarders and a compression to big capital owners. Much of the money controls who use the sea resources and where it is new and where the resources of the resource land. During the 30 years since the unreployable exposition, the article has experienced tremendous compression. The financial stock markets in large fishing companies are not associated with the nation's interests or with the inhabitants of the marine settlements who have had to bleed many times before their living breads and the rest of the night. This can hardly be considered acceptable to control our common resource. When the unregistered expedient was legalized in 1990, it was guided by the requirement for economic management that the market's law would increase the cost of fishing, but since then all these defects have been identified and prevented normal developments in the marine regions. The article in an unrelated business has been covered by greed, violence, and a large amount of money. The resource can be controlled in another way, by contracts, by reassigning and accessing resource directives into the constitution. It has to stop this amount of money from coming from our common resources and based on the national community of generation after generation. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u7	Mr. President. During these days, we are here at the council dealing with yet another dose of bills involving reactions to the conditions we are dealing with as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. We are basically, I think, of goals and paths, but of course we may be able to discern how to make progress in specific matters. However, I believe that we have made relatively successful progress over the past two months to cope with the problem that has been raised, and I hope that we have the best way of carrying it forward. This is an enormously important operation. These include measures that have the intention to minimize the damage to the economy, economy and the community as a result of events that we can call incompetent external events that trigger this and that are not unique for Iceland, but, of course, are in the countries around us and even more difficult to deal with in some cases. However, we also need to consider how we will build ourselves up again, thinking that as the year passes, projects will shift from lighting fires to building up again. Let's hope the community's good about this, too. It is not unusual for us to understand various aspects of this development, nor is it unusual for us to consider some of the decisions that we have made before. But I'm waiting. Councilmen to keep in mind that we are dealing with, so you are now using popular metaphors, unprecedented circumstances, and need to take action that is unprecedented and with speed and with difficulty. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u8	Mr. President. We have seen more dramatic changes in travel and employment culture than anyone would have believed. We have literally seen the heavens and the lands closing and extensive technologicalization at school and at work. Now, one of the biggest questions is what we're going to do when the Covid action ends. Some changes in society have come to be, others obviously not, and that's all we don't know. In this regard, I would like to mention international and international cooperation, which we now realize is not just good but absolutely necessary. The situation shows whiteness that international cooperation is not to be avoided but is to be avoided. Our position here in the country has had much to do with our efforts to say, and, of course, the cooperation of the nations has the same significance. Together we're stronger. Sadly, our job life is based on few solid but strong ones, but that is what makes us weaker. When these strong pillars are affected, the consequences are serious. Hence, it is not just a matter of talking about innovation or investing in a more varied or productive way of life. To bet on university education and research is the key to the variety of economic foundations. Today we see that movies and Icelandic shows flourish, and we have the courage to support these creative articles. Larger employment is the key to maintaining a permanent defense of the tragedy and part of the advance process. We're stronger. The strong branches are not opposition to innovation. Travel service has, for example. Be the innovation of the country and innovation in all things, not just in the spades, but in the field of growth. It is the most influential tool to strengthen our homologous life today. Mr. President. I believe that the aims of the government and of all of us today must be to support economic life by increasing our variety so that we can endure uncertainty and trauma.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u9	Mr. President. The Covid-19 global epidemic has revealed a number of things we may not be aware of, both in all systems, but also benefits. One of the areas in which the epidemic has been badly missed is the tourism service, and within it is a major work that is a number of guides, who have been exceptionally ill at the time of this crisis. The main majority of them do not have a fixed recruitment relationship with anyone, and that is despite the fact that many of them receive most of their income as payers and thus are, not contractors, but hired men in the so - called acute economy. This certainly brings to mind the importance of recruitment and the importance of rights involved in such a relationship. Of course, in the economy there are other professions that are prominent, to form many articles of artists, but in effect, the situation in there tells us that it can be dangerous, I'll let you say, building a key branch in the economy of an untrusted recruitment relationship between employers and employees. It should be an assignment for guides and, on the other hand, for the union of industry and the labor movement, to find ways to make things right so that we can use the conditions that have come up to teach us how to do better for these groups of working people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u10	Mr. President. The General has already decided that from our joint funds they will provide billions and assistance to companies to reduce the serious economic consequences of Covid-19 and thus reduce much damage. In the past, it has been shy and secretive when the state has given strength, at least In some areas, but thankfully, progress and change of viewpoint have been made in the pursuit of the removal of this secret shelter. The latest examples of this are the information that the Ministry of Agriculture saw fit to contribute for the grant of farmers in response to my inquiry at the General Assembly. In fact, it had a decisive effect on the decision - making committee of information. As a result, for the first time, all the people of the country have access to disunited data provided by legion and species. However, there is a new Persian Protection letter to the Work Programme to provide information on the companies who have taken a so-called part-time improvement, which says that personal protection laws are not a barrier to such publication. Mr. President. Al Cathedral's crust is to be unspotted and unscrupulous. The government should take the initiative to publish all the information and make it available to all about the strength provided. Thus we will create trust and needed support, knowing who will receive support and why. It is not in itself an obligation to issue this directive to all those who are taking into account public funds in support of companies. If she doesn't, we'll have to make sure that it's done because everything on board has to be translated onto tables. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u11	Mr. President. In Iceland, a large number of foreign workers have played an important role in the construction and prosperity of the past few years. On January 1, 2019, there were well over 50,000 immigrants in Iceland, some 14% of the population. The majority of these people can be expected to remain here despite worsening economic prospects. Many people understand and speak Icelandic, but a large group does not. In April more than 5,700 foreign citizens were on unemployment records, and their number has doubled compared with the same time last year. Unemployment in a foreign citizen in Iceland is now about 16%, and is not included in the number of foreign citizens currently in a reduced labour rate due to the effects of the Korean virus on the commercial life. Knowledge of the New World Translation is the key to Icelandic society and has the ability to determine the outcome of reforming immigrants into society. It strengthens their position in a workforce and makes a difference in participation in society such as, for example, the workforce. There is the possibility of participating in parental communities, sports companies, even the house and others. Therefore, in those days it is ideal to help immigrants use their time to strengthen their position by studying Icelandic. Adding the Icelandic skills of foreign workers is also a way to counteract social substitution, for it helps this group to become familiar with their rights. National language schools in the capital area and in powerful educational centers in the country are the principal educational programs for foreigners. It is more important, Mr. President, than ever to support these institutions to promote education and to increase offer in Iceland for individuals of foreign state who prefer to live in Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u12	A respectable president. There's a reason Iceland can raise more than 300,000 people. It is not default and can be seen in history. The reason is two things: science and international cooperation. It's the interaction of these two factors that makes Iceland Iceland today. It's a combination of these factors that will make Iceland rich, although we may not be rich in the near future. We have been very fortunate and very rich in recent decades in Iceland. Science is responsible for the worldwide work. I don't want to minimize the importance of supporting the English language. I'm not beinglittle the Viking stories. I read some recently, and some people are more laughful than others. However, these are not the things that get us on in life, a respectable president, as proud and appreciative as we can be for them, but science and international cooperation, in short terms foreigners and foreign ideas that come here and we take over and, of course, take care of ourselves as needed, as scientists know. I find it very important now that we are on a massive rescue mission that will be long and difficult not to lose sight of the fact that these are the guides that we must bear in mind when we look forward to the future, not just for a short time, but especially in the long run. Once this rice is over, and it will pass, we'll have to deal with climate change again, as we have to do now. It is a thorough assignment, it is also a crisis, and once again the solution is the same, not selfless, not beating on the chest and scrambling about who is courageous and braver than the other - it will become science and international cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u13	President. In reviewing the package travel secretary of the trade board the committee was met by two administration specialists, another specialised in property. Both experts said that the requirements for reimbursement that will be adopted by this bill protect property. They said that the bill would deprive people of property by receiving an introduction instead of the requirements. It also stated that this was not a violation of 72nd degree. The Constitution would require rich public interest in being subject to the adjustment of the law, the damage being minimized to the demands, and other ways of not being effective. So we began to examine whether there are alternatives without deprived of the demands of their rights, the Constitutions of property. I introduced to the pro board a proposal to do exactly that. How did I come up with that idea? I was told that when I contacted the Neythians, they were studying it. It's very simple. V.E.G. In the week, the minister of travel said that 20 of the largest tourism agencies could support reimburse consumers, but the law says that they can only include insurance, the money on books, if they either go bankrupt or go to operating stations. A simple solution lies in it. If this money is there, this insurance policy, and there will be no scheduled trips, they will simply receive travel agencies, without going to a bus stop, and without going into bankruptcy, access to that money to repay consumers. Then shall the consumers be given by law; we shall not break the right of the consumers; we shall not break the right to possess it; we shall not violate the constitution. Travel agencies are allowed access to the money to keep their savings stable. It's a question of how to implement this. This can be considered in the Committee. [[The president calls.]] I have made this suggestion, and while there is another realistic course, it would be a violation of a constitution to follow the course proposed by the minister. [[The president calls.]] So I suggest that the committee take a closer look at what has been agreed upon, and I will offer some adjustments if the committee is not going to go anywhere else. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u14	V.E.G. President. Now that most of the migratory birds have arrived, the rules for meetings make room, swimming pools open, and many newly cut hairs and school years to finish, there is good reason to recall the achievements that schoolmen did after the crown virus. School directors, teachers, instructors, and other staff at all school levels throughout the country responded to the request for a change in teaching method and attitude. The work was overthrown on zeros, and people passed the test with glow. The conclusion is that Iceland is one of the few countries that were able to keep their school system going in a pandemic. Thank you. President. Last week a minister of education and culture and social and child - care ministers introduced the government's actions for summer studies and summer work. 800 million will be spent ensuring progressive summer education at an advanced and university level. In high school, it is estimated that more than 80 courses will be available, that educational opportunities will reach as many parts of the country as possible, and that there will be an opportunity for telecommunication. Students will especially be contacted and support students with a language different from the English language. Summer university studies begin at the end of May, and note that all university universities are involved in this project and will offer more than 200 wide courses of study. Outside of traditional teaching, there is a constant education program, preparation for university education, and a learning bridge for people who want to change their career. Emphasis is placed on the keeping of registration fees and on not paying school fees for the summer. The loan fund of Icelandic students has responded by many practical measures for the benefit of students, including students. extending the application deadlines and regulations. V.E.G. President. The government is going to extend to this group of students, who are not able to do a job or access to other options during the summer and will spend some 2.2 billion dollars. in a vigorous program to increase the number of temporary jobs for students. [[The president calls.]] When it is advertised for studies in summer jobs in rural areas and public institutions. We see immediate results of this action, and the government has provided extra funds for important research and science funds. The big job is to fight unemployment. - Come on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u15	Mr. President. They're opening up Iceland on June 15th. This was announced at a government meeting to be a problem without an implementation of how this would be done in a hurry. We have seen such things in recent times, but there is a natural wish for the government to become difficult and to be sure that professional voices will be heard. You see, Mr. President, we in Iceland have a very big chance to attract here people who are looking for security, people who are fleeing the virus, and who want to see that Iceland is a safe environment and that we Iceland are still here to work on the best preventative measures as we can. This is what we need to hold on to, not only because of our future guests, but also to keep this place from flared up again. It has been said, and I'm going to agree, that the key to rebuilding tourism is that Icelanda does not stop. It seems that at least two of the three most important professions in society have had the courage and vision to make contracts that will do all at once, to ensure the future security of the classes, and to support the future activities of the society. It is wishful of the class that remains to be found with both sides of the world's odors and that Friday will be a good decision to strengthen the Society, i.e. its share of money, so that the government fund can enter and meet its requirements and fulfill the promises made by the company if this is to happen. I hope there'll be a successful solution in this regard, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u16	Mr. President. Iceland has the largest event, but it only tells half of the story because there are other ways in which a division can appear. I'd like to give you two recent examples. Thor Björgólfsson showed up this weekend on the Sunday Sunday Times shark list with property as assessed at 275 billion dollars. In contrast, foreign tourists returned almost the same amount to Icelandic society last year. All tourists - one man. Last week, Samherja's biggest owners turned in stocks to their children. This is expected to be the largest personal possession of Iceland's history with at least Sixty-five thousand dollars. Moved from generation to generation. When compared with this, 2018 persons inherited a total of 47 billion dollars, less money than the others did. The foundation of the Union is the use of the nation's common resource. How do such astronomy accumulate? How is he taxated? The resistance must be based on reasonableness and equality. These two examples remind us that some of the work ahead of us can be and that we need to be more taxpaying from people and companies who are available. Here a wealth tax has to be restored so that people with hundreds of millions and billions of dollars of pure property will be able to contribute more to society. We need to strengthen money taxes, step around them, and connect them with interest payments. We should be passing on a personal tax. It needs to step up thoroughly and put super step on superfair instead of flat taxes in low percentage. Huge transfers from generation to generation maintain inequities and class distinctions. Secretary of finance wants to head for Iceland 2.0. He needs to remember when he wins the next financial bill that in the community, there are many opportunities to make more money for the sake of the state fair before he suggests to cut down in the public ministry that all of us rely on. [[The president calls.]] Discrimination is not physical laws. It is the product of man's actions and products, many of which are taken here at council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u17	A respectable president. At the 2008 crash, the index was to be unmounted as well as today. The Covid-19 situation, as in the crash, is trying to ensure that the funding should maintain its value, which is done without regard to financial support today. A index is not to be unmounted because of possible inflation. Rather, it is to show that no one knows whether it will start or not, since it is a prophecy that is, unfortunately, most often wrong and especially at such times. We know that demand for trips, hotels, restaurants, and rafts. is no longer present, and partial improvements and unemployment are at maximum. Therefore, remunerations of securities loans and appropriate enterprises are to be frozen, as inflation accounts will be miscalculated and in these circumstances. renting from a company closed because of Covid increased by 400,000 dollars. in one month, from 2.4 million to 2.8 million, which is ridiculous. If not, people and their companies may be being invited to the home of a vulture, as in the collapse. As a result of the collapse of the bank, financial companies on the government take over people's property again. Sadly, corruption and greed are a fact in our society, and the codfish is the poverty and misery of the worst in our society, the poverty of all too many families and children with so many needs. The result is a waiting period for food, serial pay-offs, hospital waitings, waiting to get to psychologist, children waiting to be treated by Pediatrics. Where is humanity, the vision of justice, the compassion, the honesty? What is the worst situation in this regard? What is the worst situation in the matter of waiting for justice to continue at the Council of the United States? Or will the government groups once again promise to change this after the next election?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u18	A respectable president. I recommend, shortly before the Commission's proposal for a judicial resolution on the confirmation of the decision of the joint EEA committee No. 260/2019 dealing with the adjustment of an Annex in regard to financial services. The Commission has discussed the situation and has contacted Gautur Sturluson from the Ministry of State and Erna Hjaltested from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 260/2019, change of IX. A supplement to financial services at the EEA Convention, including the contract of the European Parliament and the Council's Regulation from November 14, 2018, for the review of Regulation No. 1093/2010 as regards the site of the European banking facility. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 7. The Conventional Treatments of the EEA and the Committee proposes that the proposal be adopted. Under this heading, write why. Andersen, Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Ginsótttir, daughter of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brjolfsdótir, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Einarsson and Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u19	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision made by the Joint EEA Committee No. An Annex on the Freedom of Workers for Transport and cooperation in special areas beyond the limit of the four-way freedom of the EEA Convention. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by members of the State Department and Department of Social Affairs. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the determination of the joint EEA committee for a change in this Annex and the Protocol. Under these circumstances, eight types are identified in the committee's opinion. They are all about EURES, which is a cooperation site for public employment in the EEA area and is fired by the European Commission. The aim of this workforce is to make it easier for workers to move between the EEA countries. EURES staff contact the jobseekers and jobseekers and Iceland to take part in this assignment via the EEA Convention. These are new regulations for this excellent reference and a database of vacancies and jobseekers in this area. The committee considers the proposal to be carried out in accordance with Article 7. The Conventional Treatment of the EEA suggests that the proposal will be agreed. Under the heading, write why. Andersen, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfsdótttir, who stands here, Logi Einar Einarsson, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, and the Þorgerður daughter of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u20	Mr. President. I recommend a greater part of the State Department's Department's Committee on a proposal for action on the confirmation of the decision made by the European Commission No. 165/209, conversion of IX. Annex to the EEA Convention, financial services. The Commission has discussed the situation and has received Gautur Sturluson from the Ministry of State and Erna Hjaltested from the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. The proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint Commission No. 165/209 of 14 June 2019 change in IX Annex, on financial services, to the EEA contract from May 2, 1992, and to enter the European Parliament's Directive and the Council of Remuneration on internal markets, to change the Directive and directives of the Directive and of the Commission Regulation from 23 June 2017 on improvements to the European Parliament Directive and the Council for technical monitoring of cooperation and exchange of information between law-made authorities on the implementation of financial rights and freedom to provide services. This is not easy to leave behind such reading, but interested ones are advised to take a closer look in printed form. The presentation of the proposal is considered to be the greater part in accordance with Article 7. The Conventional Treatments of the EEA and therefore contributes to the approval of the proposal by a greater proportion of the Committee. Andersen, Logi Trausti Haraldsdóttir, Brítísdóldsdóttir, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Guinsdotir, Rósar Brynjólfsdóttir Brynjolfótir, and Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u21	Mr. President. I just wanted to do this with this discussion that the General and Education Committee was given the case in discussion between 2 and 3. where the viewpoints that had been expressed at 2nd were considered a little further. due to abduction or possible aggressive warrant. To make a long story short, Mr. President, the Commission did not believe that it was a reason to make changes to the bill in this respect and to refer to the Committee's opinion and to the changes made at 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u22	A respectable president. I present a committee opinion with a bill-change proposal to legalize the social security law, half pensions so far, from a greater part of the welfare committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a number of visitors as well as many of the reviews we covered on this subject. The bill suggests changes in social security laws that aim to further explain the requirements for taking half of your pensions and ensure that more people who have reached the age of age have had the option of applying for half of their social insurance pensions against taking half of the pensions. It is suggested that the removal of the product will be a requirement for a joint gain in the right to a pension fund and from social security, unless the amount of the total amount of social security is total. It is suggested that the pay of half a pension be related, but the average pay level will be set for every income. Finally, it is suggested that half of the pensions be paid as conditional that the individual is still at the labour market for a maximum of 50% work share. With the bill, it is as stated earlier that half of the pension will be set as a requirement that the person is still in the labour market at a maximum of 50% labour market, but not for minimum working ratios. Instead, it is expected that in case of a very low employment rate or a very low salary, the State's U.S.A. will assess whether the requirements for employment and the workper ratio are met in each case. The committee made comments on the directive and showed that it excluded those who had the possibility of lowering their work ratio to 55% or 60% and those who had a different number of jobs after the time of the year. It would be difficult not to clearly recommend a minimum percentage or position of independent persons as well as not to be monitored for an increase in employment ratio of 50% or to a decline in the opinion of an insurance agency within the provision. 50% employment rate. The major part of the claim is that it is important to attach a maximum workers ratio. The purpose of half a pension is to meet half of those who reduce their employment rate. So it is normal to attach it to 50% or half of a job. This results in a significant decrease in the impact of income cutoffs at the end of the retirement process, those in the old age age age may be able to work longer and may obtain a flexible retirement. 50% Headcount is also in line with the changes made in the Pension Fund, No. Implicit: 1/1997, by law No. 28/2018, who allowed funds to start half a pension at any time after 65 years of age, would qualify to have no more than half a job. In particular, their status is set as a minimal work ratio and an independent basis, but their employment ratio is often variable between months and time of year. The Committee has received information from the Department of Social Affairs that individuals with different employment rates within the year, e.g. a full-time job half a year, but none the other half, falls under the definition of the bill being on half-work provided that a business ratio does not exceed 50% on average. Thus, they will be able to use resources, whether in the case of remuneration or by independent persons. These views were presented to the committee that the information of the follow-up insurance agency was blurred, so it might be difficult to monitor the person's professional ratio. If so, it would be unclear how monitoring would be performed. The majority of them are entitled by the Social Security Act to provide the Agency's resources for follow-up and to get the necessary information to evaluate the ratio. On the evaluation of the National Competent Authority it is expected that previous employment can be considered or calculated in terms of a remuneration, e.g. During the past three years, which should be able to provide a clue about the individual employment rate. This can also be used to identify a period of 39. The Enlightenment of the applicant's information and employee's policy, 41 st. on the lack of information and 43. g. on the information related to parties other than those of the requirements, it should be possible to obtain the necessary information about the applicant's actual employment ratio or payment and possible changes to the employee. The greater part also involves the importance of the right to pay half of a pension to be transparent, uniform, and the evaluation of an equal to an individual's status. At the same time, the obligation of the administration is to perform an independent assessment for each candidate. The Commission stated that there is a change in Regulation No. 1195/2017 of the flexible take of pensions and household chores. Therefore, directs the more part to the Ministry to see if there is a subject to set more specific criteria for the implementation of its evaluation in order to improve transparency and harmony. The bill suggests that half the pension will be linked to income, making any income more than 325,000 dollars. This month's income cut 45% of the pension pay until they drop when the income of a pensioner becomes 600,672 k. per month. For the Committee general criticism was made that income transfers between pensions from life insurance funds and social insurance that were excessively high could reduce the interest in pensions and a weak belief in the pension system. It was suggested to the committee that the overall number of pensions will be reduced from 45% to 30%. The majority of these points to the importance of providing funds from a joint fund being protected from equality, harmony, and the need for payment to be paid to those most needed. According to the current law, even though citizens who had not yet been entitled to social pensions, earners can have the right to pay half of their pensions. So it is important to make this change in the law. For the general decline rate of the larger part, this change is incompatible with material or the purpose of the existing bill. Such a vast system change would have to be taken in order to give further consideration, to evaluate the impact of such and the cost, and to discuss in a much larger context. According to the Third Amendment 1 mg. Thirty-seven. the Treaty of the General Assembly shall hold to the budget-authority assessment of the government's expenses. Such cost evaluations did not follow the available bill, although it is evident from its requirement that the cost may be at hand, with the goal of increasing the number of people who can be paid half a pension. There is some uncertainty about the costs that could be applied to the bill. of how many are entitled to pay according to the bill but also how many of those entitled will apply for payment. The Department of Social Affairs sent a cost assessment that shows that the bill's legalisation can increase the cost of the State on the pay of the elderly beyond what is currently available and that annual costs will be estimated to be in the range of 100◯300 million. K. but should fit within the current financial frame. It also showed that the cost of induction is 5 billion. K. and as a result of the $18 million bill. K. is not financed. The committee stated that it is important that insurance agencies have the necessary time to introduce appropriate changes to their computer systems and processes before the bill became valid. The majority of the reasons why this work should be rushed as soon as possible and that it should be decided to delay validation and suggest that the law gains the value of September 1, 2020. In this case, the majority suggest a slight change to ensure proper reference to social assistance laws, No. 99/2007. The objective of the bill is to make sure that more elderly ones have the opportunity to apply for half of their social insurance money in return to half of their pensions. This is an important tool to create a real space for the flexible participation of older citizens. The greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the change, and that is with the implementation of the law, as stated earlier. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson agrees with this in advance, which he intends to make clear in his speech. Under the heading, write why. The members of Helga Vala Helgadóttir, the one standing here, Ingi Kristinsson Kristoff, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnústóttir, Vilhjálmur Árnason, and as previously said, Guðmundur
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u23	A respectable president. We're here for a change in the law of half a pension. I was completely against the first law that was given in my day, mainly because they were very important that they were really just more material to them. This was not available to those with the lowest income and minimal. They received only benefits from the government's insurance agency. The change in this bill is just great, and it's greatly improved. Now the most needed is offered, with the lowest income having to reduce half of the amount of work. Here's a chance to do half a job, get 50% from a pension fund and 50% from the state insurance agency. It's a income-related process and it starts cutting at 325,000 bucks. 600,000 will be gone at 600,000 dollars. As the system is now, it is very cruel to the employees, i.e. the Gigantian deficiency that is the percentage of pensions. ASI was required to reduce the decline from 45% to 30%. I agree with that requirement. We're supposed to go down to the secret and realize that we're taking out a decrease in jobs because they're the stupidest thing we've ever made. Therefore, in support of logic, I would like to point out that the bill refers to the cost of the bill that can result in a total of 100 to 300 million. Perhaps the most surprising thing about calculating that cost is that it is calculated as a cost to pay off from a insurance agency. But taxes are not involved, not tax-related charges, and the fact that the person takes half a pension instead of full. If we turn this around, it's kind of a treasure to do this, apart from the fact that we forget to assume that there we give seniors the opportunity to work longer, whoever they can and will. For some, health and other factors are of enormous importance, resulting in lower health costs. So we are to recalculate this system. And that is why it has also been shown to stop cutting jobs, which is very closely linked to this matter, that they are green for the state, that it has been calculated. For the individual and for society along the way, there is healing. We're supposed to start thinking a little outside the box, not always lock us in these trials. We've been getting caught up in some kind of impairment and thinking that there's a problem with cutting and punishing people for trying to save themselves. I'm convinced that it's the worst thing we can do in these matters because we know that if we encourage people to earn them, income, taxes, and income costs, society will be good, and people will keep health longer. It affects the whole society, especially those who want and can win. But at the same time, and it sort of says itself, we can make sure that those who can't work and have to go to pension get a decent pension, and can live with dignity on that pension. Sadly, a certain group that cannot do so is the group with little or no income from a pension fund. It is the predominant part of women, who, of course, are a disgrace because they are basically being punished for being at home with children and other things. It's a very strange punishment. It's kind of ridiculous. That's why I'm celebrating the bill. I'm mainly glad that this is the first step in thinking outside the box, starting with the absurdity of forbidding people to work and cruelly punish them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u24	President. I have to come up here to join my team on the welfare committee, Guðmundur Ingi, Kristinsson. I didn't sign the commission. Not because I was opposed to the case, it was mostly due to my opposition to the social security system over my head and all the conditions and failings that are there that I am completely opposed. I've seen things happen when we bring bills to try to improve or improve the social security system in any way in order to increase the rights of the people inside the system. Often, there are consequences that no one can predict because the system is so complex. How does it work in a democratic community to have a system to serve people who don't even really understand the rules? I think we need to take the system and revise it systemic with the thought of not tying people to poverty traps with conditions and impairments, but saving them, providing them a safety net, building floors for people to stand on so that they can survive and thrive in society on their terms. We need a social security system that meets people where they are. That was the main thing. I understand that most or all the reviews in this case were positive, and of course I'm glad that there's laws that are being corrected and that they are helping people and that they don't stand up against them at all. But I'd like to see that we would take this system through completely and look into it completely.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u25	A respectable president. I present an opinion as to the need for agreement between two law columns on bill for a legal adjustment in the law on the issues of the elderly, No. 125/1999 (age body). The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted Erna Kristín Blöndal, Birna Sigurðardóttir and Þór Hauksson, of the Reykdal of Social Affairs. The committee received one account of the body of elders in the field. The subject and target of the bill: By 2018, the Management Board of aging was changed by law No. 37/2018, law on community services, No. 40/1191. Their objective was to change, including ensuing the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointment M.a. a change in localisation and order of representatives of the body of elders was made. At the same time, there was a change in the law on the affairs of the elderly, No. 125/1999, and the term "Service Group " of the Elderly (Ecedents) turned into the term" Council of Elders. " However, as with local social services, changes were not made in the same way as in the order of a representative of the law on the affairs of the elderly. The objective of this bill is to conform to the laws of the law. Commenting on the committee, the committee received a positive report. In view of the need for adjustment in order to reconcile laws between two layers and to agree on the matter, the commission suggests that the bill will be passed on. Kolbrún Árnadóttir Aarnadótir was away from the hearing. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. Under the committee of literature, and it says, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Halldorra Mogensen, Lilja Frney Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir and Vilhjálmur of Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u26	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson for his excellent speech. This is an important matter, and I'm not going to extend the discussion in any way. So here it is being said of a change in the law on the subject of the elderly, that in each community, or rural society that cooperates on aging matters and services to the elderly, a formal meeting ground is called a body of elders, which discusses the services of the elderly and the implementation and development of aging. That's the best part. Many rural communities today have this body of elders. I have had meetings with such advice, and I have had many interesting experiences there, and I have been delighted to attend meetings with the fine members of a body of elders in various rural areas. However, this is a formal meeting point for services to the elderly and for the development of aging within the local community. What I wanted to come on, I don't know exactly what it's like in this case, I understand that the body of elders as it is today do not have a fixed committee position on the team and is not defined as a paid committee, as I know best. I would have thought that this should be changed, and those under the body of elders should be paid for their jobs and that this should be viewed as a local fixed committee. I would have felt that this was normal, just because people take time for this work and are conscientious about it, and that they should be paid for it, like others who care for various local committees. But I'm right about it. Of course, it's important that society considers the elderly to be a valid member of society and respect the human resources in them. Sometimes you feel that you lack it. The older citizen or the elderly should be viewed as a social base, not as a resource. In addition, it is important to treat them as individuals, not as a homologous group. The community's attitude toward the elderly is two ways, I think. In any case, I have experienced that on the other hand, those who feel that the elderly are supposed to be members of society, and so are those who view them as keeping their low. I think that's a rather negative attitude. It is important to create a positive view of the fine group that makes up so much of the generation we have, which has built up the welfare system that we live in today and has worked our whole life conscientiously and wants to have a carefree lifetime. The amount of respect they have for older citizens varies according to societies. As far as I've seen, I feel that we Icelanders have a little to deal with. I worked for a while in the Middle East, where I found it interesting to see how the communities there have a great deal of respect for older people. As far as it goes, I feel like a role model. I think we Icelanders sometimes lack a little of it. Let us show respect for older ones. It is vital that we make sure that our progress is sound. There we come to what has been discussed many times, to improve the social security system, and to pay for older citizens in this regard, and to eliminate the impairments that have been discussed many times. We in the Middle East have specifically talked about it, and we have made adjustments in budgets and other items suggested to eliminate these impairments, such as, for example, the U.S.A. that commercial income doesn't cut off senior citizens' pension incomes. We have made it available both in speech and in literature and in adjustments. I'd like to say something special, if you don't mind. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Ishreus, who has been very active in this language, is grateful. He has written good articles and offered suggestions on these subjects on behalf of our Middle Class. In addition, it is important for older people to have good and safe health systems and to ensure that health care and medical care are available. The elderly'home is of great importance to them, as well as to providing care, care, and self - help service when health fails. The elderly place great emphasis on self - sufficiency and the self - determination rights on the basis of the choice of farms, retirements, associations, etc. How important it is that older ones are asked for opinions on matters that concern them! That is exactly where we are to the body of elders, to seek advice on their case in the local community, to heed them, and to listen to their wishes. Of course, here at the Council, we are to do so, including in the local governments and in the public field. Sometimes you wonder, " Is it not normal for someone to work as an agent of some kind for the elderly? ' It speaks of consultations, and everything looks really good on paper, but then it's a question of how good it will be when it comes to it. We know this only when dealing with the majority of the sector and the government that the smaller part has not been allowed enough of the government's proposal for the economics of the virus epidemic. It has been requested for consultation, but in the end it has been a bit of a sham. This is not the case at all. This must be an effective consultation and should be followed up. We know that older ones, of course, want society to value them instead of viewing them as a base on the community I mentioned earlier and that society should appreciate them as individuals, use their experience, and respect the human resources in them. They also want them to be consulted with opinions about matters that concern them, to listen to their wishes, and to be sensitive to them. This is what I'm stressing here, that it will be followed when the bill becomes a law that we, of course, in the Central Party support our mind to have an effective consultation. Everyone is to have room to be themselves and to live with dignity and the dignity of society. This is especially true of older citizens. One way to increase the participation of older citizens within the community is to make it easier for those who want to have longer working lives without compromising their terms. We have spoken in the Middle East about not giving seniors a chance to work - well, let's say for as long as they want, and let's say hello. It should be an individual choice, not an individual's choice to abandon a certain age. But I'm not gonna keep this any further, Mr. President. I just wanted to help you understand that it is important to keep up with what is suggested in the bill, that this discussion will be respected and that you will listen to older citizens, and that they get to be active participants in decision-making, which affects their affairs at the level of government. As I said earlier, I have been meeting with a body of elders. These are good association, and they are fascinating things that these fine people have to say. We are certainly to listen to it and to respect it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u27	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on Elements to correct the change of timers' law, No. 138/2013. The bill suggests that the clock charge of documents relating to the possession of ships will be taken away. The bill shows that ships over five grosstons are the only operators who still carry the clock charge when a property transfer takes place and that a view of the equalness of the sector by decommissioning the fee. It is noted that the change also correlates with the regular work found in the Northern States on timeliness, where credit rates are generally limited to real estate transactions. The bill will then be adopted to improve the network of ships in Iceland, which will be comparable to those of foreign competitors, thus strengthening the position of the Icelandic seabed in international competition. According to a joint review of the Association of travel services and trade and services, a ship's clock - free business will have a positive effect on the job life, resulting in a loss of business costs for buying and selling ships. It is noted that the fishing route is not the only industry using ships in Iceland but also other branches, including teleportation and tourism companies. The bill is a business aid with ships, and to increase the opportunity of companies to attack the necessary renewal and economy. Furthermore, according to the board, the current cost of fuel is one of the main operating costs of ships, and their operators have a great deal of interest in using less fuel in their eyes. Renewing of this basis supports climate targets.◯ The majority of the parts take the above opinion that i.e., i. e. the non-computing arguments are intended to dissipate the clock as well as that the change will have a positive effect on the job and can speed up shipping fleet with less fuel use and a positive environmental impact. It should be noted that for the Committee and the reviews of sailors'interest organizations, there was opposition to the progress of the bill, which was concerned about the reality that by considering the safety of Icelandic sailors, they are threatened. The Commission requested a position on the employment and innovations of the Ministry on the subject. The Ministry's memo to the Committee pointed to the Ministry, including the U.S. to show that the bill would in no way change an ideal sailor's fishery to Icelandic ships'fishing, dr. Section 5. the management of fish contracts and the terms of collective agreements The memo also shows that the approved bill will lead to a slower temporarily transport of ships to another state, e.g. Greenland, as well as the possibility of making new or increasing incomes from Icelandic developers as well as an opportunity for Icelandic sailors. The majority of it feels that this is not a reason to fear removing a timeout of documents relating to possession transfer would pose a threat to the safety of the Icelandic sailors. Furthermore, the majority believe that the employment security of the professions should be ensured differently from the label and, in fact, public pay on the job equipment, e.g. in the laws on the sector and in collective agreements. So the majority suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under the committee, Óli Björn, the son of Kárason, Brubbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Bryndís the daughter of Haraldsdóttir, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and Willum Þór the son of Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u28	Mr. President. I measure to the opinion of 1 less part, but in that smaller section there are signed and Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir, Senator Pirata. The aforementioned opinion is in itself brief and simple, and I'm going to, with president's permission, begin by reading it. The bill calls for a specific reduction in taxes, which is largely an advantage for the constructions that buy and sell fishing vessels. A smaller portion considers this a consistent reduction to be premature. There is no urgent situation that calls for tax relief, as the bill assumes. Especially in view of the difficult and vague times in which we live. However, the first minority feels that the long - term drop of all stamps is a reasonable arrangement, and revered, along with the members of Pirata and Flockish people, gave the bill of that material at the beginning of this council, as per the 93th when economic prospects were much brighter. That bill assumes that all plunger charges will be submitted in stages. Such steps would be nearly to take in the years to come. That's why my 1st stuff goes against this bill's approval. That's when I've considered the committee, but I'd like to share some of my own feelings. This shows a peculiar priority for the three governments, to go out of their way to reduce the expenditures of the country's construction projects. It is interesting how the priority is arranged. It is said that this is very important, since fishermen need to be able to renew their ships in order to meet high - energy prices. The price of oil is recorded and will remain something, so that argument is not very strong. It is also appropriate to point out that the second person was at the highest level. The government proposed to cancel the clock charges of real estate transactions at this time but to focus especially on saluting the project in this way. I'm winding up the argument that there's one of the equalities involved. That was at least did not keep in mind the last time the law was changed, but it was deliberately left behind this category of businesses. At that time, there was not much talk about equality. I think it would be closer to the highest, too. Governments and government groups are more concerned with taking into consideration serious ideas that there will be a market access to fish markets and that this will be paid in accordance with what the market says. So this is very unveiling, I think, for these three categories that now put together in the government, that there is a special reason to go out of the way to improve the interests of the project, which I don't see in any particular problem at this time. That's what I'd like to say. I don't like this case at this point, and I'm going to vote against the case when it comes to a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u29	Mr. President. Another smaller part, representing the Committee on the United States, has a brief, well - thought-of-the-name committee. I'm going to read it here: A smaller section considers the plans for changing the clock rate of documents due to possession transfer the government's unusual priorities in a pandemic and dropping state funds. A smaller section takes under the heading of a ship management partner and a collective review of Iceland's Marine Union and VM's Scourges, motor managers and metal techs, to dissociate the clock when a ship comes for the first time on the Icelandic shipping list is a good option but not every time a ship is scraped out, and it comes in from the Icelandic shipping list for practicality. As a result of these changes, the situation of the Icelandic sailors may be substantially affected. Rather than taking action that threatens their security, seamen should be careful and supportive. A clear example of this is when an Icelandic ship is registered in Greenland, but under Greenland, it is mandatory that all its members be Greenlandic. There are also accidents insurance and collective rights that are self-signed in Icelandic ships, not on ships left in Greenland. If the bill is legalized, the ships can be expected to increase with the negative consequences for Icelandic sailors, and therefore 2nd lower things against the approved bill, describing their surprise about this government's priorities in unemployment and uncertainty. Mr. President. I can agree with the speaker who spoke before me that it was closer to viewing the resources that should be returned to the nation than to cancel the clock charges to make it easier for them to fly ships in and out with consequences not desirable for the Icelandic sailors.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u30	A respectable president. I may have to correct the fact that this is a government priority. There's something else, and it's not. This has been a matter of months, if not for years at the council, and of course, as presented here. It's clear that there's an opportunity here. The only instruments sold with a stamp tax, used tools, are fish ships. Icelandic ministries have been able to take advantage of fragrant fishing in foreign waters, where they have been able to make their quotas and come to the end of the country's population and all of us and sailors because it will work in both directions. foreign ships will also be brought in, which will become the mother of the Icelandic crews, so in time, this will not be overhauled. I understand that the Greenlandians have their laws that ships are greener than they are. Of course, there is a problem, but at the same time, there is also Icelandic fishing for the goods of foreign land, which is extremely important to us for the future. We can now see as a result of a massive opportunity of mass failure if the ship could be blown out to hunt in other seas. Flirting ships in and out is expensive. A standard ocean vessel may provide 70-580 million dollars to fly it out and the same when it comes back. This is being done almost completely without hope. It would seem odd to many of the Southnesman if Iclanders were to fly a plane for a few months on a foreign project and they had to pay a label on the plane. No one can think of that. Hence, it is only fair that the structure sits at the same table as others. I don't feel anything in general about paying taxes or fees, whether they are hunting charges or any other fees, but I think it's normal that the development, like any other business in the country, stays at the same level as others.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u31	Mr. President. As mentioned earlier, I bring an opinion of the bill to legalize a change in nature protection law, No. 60/2013, with subsequent changes. Before I give the Commission opinion, I remind you this is about non-inhabitation, i.e. The minimum conditions required by Icelandic law for land to be called uninhabited. The bill is, in effect, about the fact that two words must appear twice in the same sentence, because of the clarity. This is actually about the minimum desert size limit of 25 km2 and in the law at least at least in the law. Twenty-two miles. It also states in the same paragraphs that the distance from the next act should be at least Five miles. This bill goes on to say that it will also be put into the words ◯ normally, so that it will be at least Five miles. This becomes more apparent when I read the committee opinion, Mr. President, and I'm going to review it as it comes from the cow from whence. Environmental and Transport Committee: The Commission has discussed the matter and discussed with Ása Ögmundsdóttir and Jón Geir Pétursson from the Environment and Resource Ministry, Guðjón Bragason of the European Union of Iceland, Kristín Linda Árnadóttir, and Jón Ingimarsson from Landing, Sif Konráðsdóttir of Nature Protection, Tryggvi Felixson of Southland's Natural Protection and Firewater Institutes on Nature Protection in Skafthjörn. The Committee received reports from Unpreserved Nature Protection, Land Protection, Land Implementation, Southern Natural Protection Agency, and Firewater Institutes on Nature Protection in Skaftárföll, the United States of Iceland and Union. Then the subject and goal of the bill: The bill introduces a change in the definition of the term '- 'Counsel' to the 19th count 5. The law says that the words normally ◯ will be added in front of the word "staps." Five miles out of here. If the bill is approved, this criteria will be applicable both to the size of the wild beyond and to the distance of the area. As shown in the bill's report, the Environment and Transport Committee made changes in the definition of the concept of processing of the bill to the laws on nature protection that became the law of No. 60/2013. The definition was made from paragraph 46. in Article 5. As a result, the word shift usually moved to within the term, allowing it to appear in front of a description of the size of the wild, not in front of the distances of the area, as it was in 46 C.E. This has led to a loss of peace and harmony under the peace-enforcement category, if buildings are within five miles of the limit of the region, although they are not seen because of geographic conditions. When the bill was intended to create a level of peace in uninhabited areas under these conditions. And now, the manager intends to shoot in that it refers to events such as, for example, the case. when using both seawaters below, for example. this 25 km2 size range. Then it can be declared at the same time. If any of the structures beyond this sea were either side of the sea within five miles, and some floors between them could be resolved anyway. The same would apply to deserts in which highlands on one side are made so that monuments on the other side will not be seen from the butterfly. It is also possible, though they may be within five miles [5 km] away, to eliminate this territory that is uninhabited. This is my explanation for why these words are being added to this sentence, so that they are twice in the sentence, before the size limit, and from the distance line. Mr. President. So I continue to read from the report: Comments were made in the bill's report that with the change, projects could open up within five miles of the limit of the peace-lit area, provided they did not affect its protection. It was noted that the text of the Law would have to be clear that a 5 km-accompanied belt would not be expected outside of areas that are declared uninhabited and carried out in that area. The committee points out that at the decision of the peace zone of an uninhabited region, this range of distance and size is considered to be the 19th percentile. A traditional level of peace is valid. For the non-regional activities, 54th par. Like any other peace-installed territory. It shall be taken into account if the permit procedure can affect the protection of the peace-marked region in terms of granting permission. - So, it's gonna have to be checked, my entrance, whether or not there's a license to be carried out within a five-mile radius. In this case, conditions can be set to prevent damage to the function or activities in the designated area. - So that's, my entry, not without no warning that construction is within five miles of the bounds of a peace-infested territory. Well, then I'll continue, tops. President: Other activities and activities, i.e. which are not allowed, should be subject to Article 6. The law of the law is that the operator or manager is obliged to take into account the protection of the peace-lit territory of the management or implementation. Therefore, there is no strict prohibition on implementation in a 5-mile area outside a peace-lit area. According to the Committee, legislation is clear on this and does not need any more change than is proposed in the bill. The Commission has a right to conclude that the change the bill makes is only toward the distances of an area that can be defined as non-inhabited, i.e. that areas can be considered non-inhabited to the existing general conditions of the 19th sector. The law of the law is present within five miles of the area's limit, or new structures will be built in that area. Mr. President. The last part of the Commission's opinion is about energy research and energy efficiency: It was noted that the change that the bill involves did not affect energy research or energy efficiency and transport. In this regard, the committee points to 53 st. The Act of Justice but the implementation of the bill for the protection of the Environment and Transport Committee of 141. At 53rd. will therefore require only a ban on the use of energy in the region. An aluminium study showed that it was normal to give all the research work as much space as possible, but it could also be research focused on energy outside the peace - related region. Energy research requires, as with other research, the general limit of terms of peace and permission by the government. The committee agrees with these views and emphasizes that the bill does not transform into anything. The same is true of 6. legislation on the protection and energy efficiency programme, No. 48/2011. So I shoot it in here, Mr. President, there's no law against investigating any kind of peace-infested zones to meet specific criteria. That's to say, everybody is signing this. Environmental and Transport Committee members. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson was absent from the case, but he signed according to clearance at 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Council of the Council. Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, an officer of the committee, agrees with the opinion. In this way the committee makes its own opinions, considers the bill to improve, and suggests that it will be accepted as the same. Under the heading, the one that stands here, Trausti Trani Guðmundsson, Bergþór Ólason, the Guðjón of Brjánsson Verjánnsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Jón Gunnarsson, Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Anna, and Vilmimurm Árnason. Mr. President. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u32	A respectable president. We'll vote here on a very important case, a decomposition. It's very positive that this is the way we are at the council - is this a change? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Well, the adjustment is good, too. I'll let it be my vote anyway. I am very happy that the consumption space has come this far and that it should be corrected so that they can maintain a complete vision. Of course, just as the welfare committee has decided, the next step is that of drug abuse. I further encouraged the committee to impress them. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u33	Mr. President. We vote on sensitive matter and debate. This has to do with many families in the country. Here's a suggestion to nurture a group that even thinks there are 700 people in Iceland. Necessity is supported by ideologies of damage, which includes reducing the health, social, and economic consequences of consumer consumption as individuals receive their own health and social services. This is one small step toward criminal abuse, viewing as a health matter, and not a crime, in spite of the possibility of illegal drugs. We continue to work hard at preventive measures, and it is unlikely that this legal arrangement is being promoted by drugs. This is the path of reason and practicality. The binoculars are no longer in place for the blind. They are reflected in this bill that they view reality as it is, but they may not be what we wanted it to be. I thank you for the bold step of the health minister and for your determination. This is a turning point.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u34	A respectable president. I'm coming up here to describe my pleasure with payment on this bill and say yes to that. We're holding a very sensitive, sick group here. I say yes on behalf of the group, and also on behalf of those who know they're in very bad situations and no one's holding them. This is a time-change bill, and I think it's very important that we vote here on the matter because it's putting our arms around very sick people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u35	V.E.G. President. I vote with this case in terms of humanity and health. In those countries that have taken steps in this direction, including in Denmark, the experience is presented as positive, including in that 90% of injection needles are in public and more hygienic and professionality towards this patient group. Reykjavíkurburg has called for the government to come to these matters in a way that put professional hygiene first. I would have liked to see a health minister settle this problem simultaneously to a treatment station where the waiting lists are at the maximum. Part of the people there are in the very group that this bill is about. The Central Party has proposed a synonym to provide access to addiction treatments, which hopefully get a payoff for the high Council and a quick payment by the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u36	Mr. President. It's a pleasure that we're going to vote on this matter, consumption space. At this point, there is reason to say thank you. The welfare committee for the co-operation on this matter and the highest level. A health minister for volunteering. As the U.S. Congress knows, the matter comes through the party of Porta for quite some time ago and should be thanked for it. When the bill becomes legal, it will change that this group of members of society will have access to a mixture of health and social services that will be important to them. This is the first step in the important way to stop punishing consumers for their diseases or for the health problems they may have. It's very important, and I'll say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u37	Mr. President. I will vote for this case with great joy. This is very important. It's humanitarian, it's public health. This is a big step for the Council to treat those who are dealing with the drug. This is not to increase the number of addicts, it is not to facilitate access or anything. It is only to deal with these people with respect and humanity in order to improve their health and safety. Yes, I certainly will pay my vote for this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u38	A respectable president. I welcome this matter, and especially on the grounds that now we're just thinking outside the box, stopping punishing sick people for their addiction, and also seeing to it that we're taking out of the clouds, the toilets, and other horrible situations of those who are far gone and injecting themselves and giving them a wholesome environment to deal with and carry their addictions. Clean needles prevent infections and can also be monitored if needed and interrupted if needed. I'm celebrating this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u39	A respectable president. I support this case, but I find it quite difficult. I hate to think it's legal to come to a place and inject drugs. I don't think that's a good idea. But after all, I still think it's the right step we take today to accept this because this is the best solution for those who are so far gone. On the other hand, I was in a talk with the suggestion to put this on the shoulders of my communities. This bill is suggested to the highest level. The health minister contributes funds to this suit. This is in my mind health, and we always have to be careful when mixing Kingdom and rural assignments. It must be clear where the cost is paid. In this case, it's health costs and it's supposed to come from government funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u40	President. I just come up here to celebrate this important matter, which leads us one step further in the direction of increasing damage to our society and change of viewpoint that those with substance problems need help, not punishment. I welcome the courage of the Minister to make this request. Looks like it's going to work out, at least. ... after2nd. which is very good, and encouraging the minister to continue courage when it comes to the atrocious consumption of drugs in general so that we reach and open our arms to all who have a drug problem, not only the small group that I think this option will lead to a complete change of life in ways that the community has not previously been prepared to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u41	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying what to do. Senators before, especially if you don't mind. paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen and what. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son. I'd like to point out one thing because, especially recently, but in general, I've felt that there's an extremely little listen to this town, and it takes a long time to make changes. That's how, you respectable President, it takes a very long time to make changes. I find this matter to prove that by persistence and involvement in politics, people can be caught up in their ears despite what may seem hopeless at first. On occasion, people respond to reasoning, change their mind, and become positive and beneficial. I feel that it is important to keep it in place that this was the case, and I would like to thank you for it, of course. Councilmen, especially the highest. Healthcare Minister, for his work in this case. Such developments occur only if we deal with one another.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u42	President. Drug abuse is a health problem at the core, a social and psychological problem. For a long time, Western governments have addressed this as a moral or criminal problem and have tried to solve it in this way. Now we've seen from decades of history that it doesn't work. We've also seen Western experiments that work. Portugal was an epidemic of the massian heroin in the year 2000, and all drugs were a crime. It was no longer a crime to use drugs, the Portuguese decided to approach it as a health and social problem and started helping the addicts. The biological system is what breaks in people. This is a biological and psychological problem. If we are to approach it that way with humanity and science, and with what has worked, we approach it that way. This is one of the first steps to get in that direction at least Those who are so far led by their high consumption have a safe shelter, access to the health care they need, and a safe place to take drugs. [[The president calls.]] The crime problem is something to come, we see especially younger generations, but the older ones are beginning to see that light.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u43	Mr. President. This issue has to do with a vulnerable group, long - leading drug addicts, who are actually severely ill. These people deserve to be judged, not by community condemnation, but by altruism, compassion, and treatment. For these reasons, I don't want to lie down against this bill. However, the bill would have had to be more characterised by measures involved in treatment and prevention. In all this respect, I will not vote this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u44	A respectable president. I support this case, and I signed a greater part of the General and Education Committee on it, although with the premonition that I would have liked to see there in vain opportunities for the people who are attending their rights in the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u45	A respectable president. I'm glad this bill is here to become the law and thank you. A top-of-the-art Board of Education for her work. The establishment of a resurgence will make it clear that the court is solely on the hands of a judge in accordance with the constitution. The principle of the trilocation of the State is thus established, and the conditions for the resurgence of judicial cases are also enlarged. Most important, though, there is a measure of justice for the public in the country. Thank you. General and Education Committee again for work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u46	Mr. President. I will, of course, vote with this bill. It's a very great act of justice. Yet, I can't help but mention here that there is no way I have allowed a rape in these matters. This is very sad because there is an extremely high level of court order. I really hate that we're going to separate the poorest people from the resources of being able to seek their rights here. In order to obtain a post-emission, the individual must have only a minimum of 300,000 dollars. each month, more than 400,000 for married couples, and I would have thought that we could make that one condition work rather than completely rule out people who cannot afford to seek their legal rights for a re-election court. I'm sorry, but there's another way to back up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u47	A respectable president. I support this case because it has changed very well. This is the third time. The first two times contained this same bill, which the one here could not resist and fight considerably. It has been taken into account the comments I made so that now the balance has been established both for those taking part in judging these matters is that they are largely outside the courts for building trust and that the manner in this court is no longer as certain as it was. But I agree with what. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir, I find it shocking not to be held in. I would have found it better to be there, but this bill is an act of justice, so I support it and also express joy in being met with the government's comments. It's not likely, and it's not common. Thank you. A full-scale educational committee for this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u48	V.E.G. President. Just a minute on this matter. As seen in the highest grade. The minister of justice, as well as others, is involved in a system change, which includes the application of tasks that have been made by the Re-Electment Committee to Re-Elect a Court of Justice, which will thus be carried out by the Supreme Court. Minister specified, please be sure that the decision of the administrative committee is not to be made. It is a great improvement in this regard. Nevertheless, as soon as it is important to recognize that such measures are available, it is worth keeping in mind that the very nature of the case should always be the exception, which, of course, must be determined by the conditions of the law. Many factors need to be taken into account, but this is an exception to the principle that cases are brought into account in the general system of judgment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u49	A respectable president. I don't think there's any debate in this case that the arrangement that has been under way in recent years did not lead to the future. In fact, there is evidence that I should have come into this discussion at an earlier stage, that can't be done any later than now, but it sounds to me that a discussion about whether it would be wise to return to the arrangement before the administrative committee was set up has provided no particular discussion. These are exceptions, and I warn that this is the same trends now in the court field as is happening to so many people in the system, that more overcrowding, higher booths, if what we're sitting on. I would have liked to have received an informed discussion of this and to consider whether a previous arrangement might have been better, since courts would have taken their stand on each subject as they came up. I won't vote on this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u50	President. As we have seen, this matter is now entering the council for the third time. It has been sent back because of a serious flaw in it each time that much has been adjusted so that it is a great joy to a global and educational committee, especially now. paritaprevir Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir, in this regard, stood watch. Pirats and I put blanks in stopping this case at the time, but now it's done a lot better. I'm on top of it. Former Minister of Justice, Sigríður Á. Andersen, concerning the continuation of three counts. True, there is only one person who can sit in the court on two from outside. It's a good thing, but the Court's office is to implement rules on how these three are appointed from each court level for themselves. The ball is now at the Court's office, and it needs to implement these rules so that there can be any doubt that these three members are professionally selected and qualified. If this is done, it will probably be successful, but the ball is at the court's office that has to do it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u51	President. I just wanted to come up here and say I'm supporting this case and I'm going to vote with it, even though I'm not on the committee's opinion. I repeat what I said in my speech earlier, because I generally feel that we should take through the social security system, look at it whole, and watch to shrink or even remove all these impairments completely and those conditions. It's my general position on this matter, but of course I'm on the side of the case. All the reviews were positive, and this is a good thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u52	A respectable president. I welcome this bill, especially because it replaces the old laws that were out - of - date in that sense so that they were only for the more prosperous. Today, this is, in effect, a major share for those with low pensions. The other is that once this bill is put into force, it will show that it is not an expense but a profit for those who take advantage of this work and profit for the community as a whole because it tells themselves that tax revenues are being made and less paid by the insurance agency. This is economically practical in every way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u53	Mr. President. While we in the Middle East are generally in favor of deduction of the stamps and simple system, there is one relatively serious flaw in the matter, and it is that in addition to this delinquency of the stamps, sailors have otherwise met the anxieties, their concern that, on an ever - increasing scale, ships will be hauled in and out of the landway. This would have had to be done at the end of the plunger, but I'm not doing it here, so I don't vote for the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u54	Mr. President. Now that a pandemic is going on, unemployment rates have never been higher, government funds are losing money, we watch a hole in the next budget of maybe 300 billion, even more, what is it then that the government and the government council members agree to here and make their priority? It is turning and taking stamps off large ships so that they can move in and out of the country and change the riverboards right, with left-hand consequences for unseen sailors. It's an interesting setting of priorities, though it's in the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u55	Mr. President. Priorities are often needed when much is needed, saving is limited, and priorities are needed. Now it is true that the three governments have considered it to be a priority for the will of the tailor - tailored bill to benefit it. It's a little strange, but it's even now that the government's triune crown head is full of weird things and may not be surprised at how that three - head is thinking in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-19-105.u56	President. In this case, like so many others, we see that the Council is running three quota groups. I just want to use the opportunity of this vote, as we see the priorities for the development of this case, to mention that the people of the country who want to be forced back to the people want to get it back to the people - they can be taken at 5% per year and put on open markets - those who want to change the eating system so that the people of the country can have their resources and they can get the legitimate interest from that natural resources need to choose other categories. I think there's another party at the council, the Central Party, but other classes have to be chosen. Well, next time, don't you think the Socialism will fall in? They're against this system, too, so it'll be at least five of us at the next opportunity who want to change the reservation system and bring back the resource and its use to the nation.
