ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-77.u1	A respectable president. I recommend a committee program with a bill-change proposal to correct the change in rural government law, No. 131/2011. An emergency situation in a rural society is the analysis of this bill. It's under the heading after 2nd. but the bill has been moved by an environment and transport committee. The committee discussed the matter after 1st. and found them with Björn Ingi Óskarsson, from the Department of Transport and Division and Guinger of Bragason, from the Icelandic rural Union by phone. The committee received a review from Reykjavíkurburg. The bill suggests improvement in rural law, No. 138/2011, the directive that the Minister can determine that a rural government is permitted to deviate from its specific areas of government in the management of rural society in order to ensure that rural management is operating under emergency conditions and to facilitate decision-making. As in a bill report with the bill, it is suggested to respond to reports from rural society that there will be room for rural government law to deal with the crisis caused by the virus disease Covid-19. The objective of the bill is to ensure that rural governments have the means to act quickly in circumstances created by an emergency. To cover the Commission and actually the 1st. it was reasoned that too far in allowing Ministers to give the rural administrations an exception to certain local government regulations on the basis of an emergency situation without leaving the warrant on the laws that might apply to such conditions. For example, Reykjavíkurburg pointed out that it might be more convenient to have a secretary's right to a certain section or paragraph of the law. The committee emphasizes the need for certain conditions to be met by a minister's decision. They are a state of emergency in the countryside, involving the regulations of the rural administration laws, the purpose of ensuring that rural government is active in emergency situations and to facilitate decision-making. Then, too, a minister is bound by the moderate order, so he cannot grant any greater authority to the rural governments than is necessary to compromise the conditions of local government law. The requirement also includes that the Ministers only grant local authorities permission to decide for themselves whether or not there is a basis for compromising certain conditions of rural government or agreed rural governments during an emergency situation and therefore is fully in accordance with local administration rights, as 1 mgr. 78th par. Constitutions. In view of the above, it is reasonable for the Commission to consider that the application of the warrants to be limited from the specific sections of the law, the chapters responsible for the management of rural society, i.e. III. Section 6 on unit meetings, Section V, on committees, advice and management, VII. section on the financial matters of rural society, and chapter X, for consultation with citizens. It suggests that the Commission will change that a minister's authority will be restricted to annuity of the terms of the law, administration orders set on the basis of their section and of the approved community. Then there was a review of the Law. The situation created in rural governments due to Covid-19 emphasizes the importance of ensuring a degree of flexibility in rural law to cope with difficulties that may arise due to an emergency. However, it cannot be overlooked that the bill is submitted to the specific situations that exist today. It is important that discussions about the extent to which it is natural for ministers and rural groups to have but that decisions about the arrangement are permanently not made on the basis of the current temporary situation. So the committee suggests that the warrant will be preferentially set up on December 31, 2020, i.e. Rather than becoming part of Article 131, the account goes on to take on temporary measures. as originally suggested. This will help to reevaluate how the community's leeways will be assured in collaboration with their own communities and that there will be experience in the application of the sources proposed in the bill. Then the Commission feels that the decisions made by a minister prior to December 31st, 2020, will be kept in force as long as it is scheduled. With reference to the above, the committee suggests that the case will be accepted with a change in motion that I intend to make. In addition to the law, there is a further provision for provisional action: Ministers can decide, having agreed with the European Union, that rural administration is permitted to temporarily depart from certain conditions of Rule III, V., VII. and the X section of the law, the administration instructions set on their basis and the approved rural society in the management of rural society to ensure that rural management is functional in emergency situations and to facilitate decision-making. The Ministry should state a decision based on 1 mg. in Government News, and it can be used for only four months at a time. This law applies to December 31st, 2020. Decisions based on 1 mg. However, for up to four months, as 2 mgr, the value should be maintained by 31 December 2020. Under the opinion of this publication, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir Ólason, chairman of the Commission, Jón Gunnarsson, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Guðjón Brjánsson Brunsson, Hanna Vilhjálmur Árnason, Hjaltason Gauti Einar, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, and Vilmurmurmáson. Then an officer on the committee, Bea Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, agreed with this opinion. Finally, I would like to stress that the change suggested on this bill between discussions is that instead of leaving it to 131. gr. The rural laws are proposed to include a more preliminary law than when the bill was submitted last week, and it is reserved for the specific four chapters of the rural government law and for a period of time in which it is a year. According to this, I suggest that the bill be approved as it already is.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-77.u2	A respectable president. Very good adjustments were made in the discussion. What I'm most impressed with in the management of the Committee after the adjustment of the proposal is found in section X of the Treaty, consultation with the population, is part of the exception. It makes it very clear that administration instructions are made on the basis of a decision and agreed rural society in order to ensure that rural management is functioning in an emergency situation and to facilitate decision-making. This is still a vast source of permission to deviate from rural law, but it is much more limited than it was initially, has a time limit, and on this basis I can accept this conclusion very well. I think it's very good and perfunctory in this regard, but it's to the secretary and unit to be very careful with these authoritys. Other than that, this is a critical conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-17-77.u3	President. The bill that was put forward by the Environment and Transport Committee, and we are about to complete the current operation in a hurry. When working quickly, they often want to shorten a way that would mean that the proposed proposal would have had an extensive effect; a minister would have the untimely authority to allow rural governments to deviate from an undisclosed government law against an undefined emergency. Fortunately, the environment and transport committee responded in these indications and stated that this power was not non-term. That law will fail at the end of this year. This is no longer an undisclosed code of local government law. It is provided in the sections that may be applicable. All that remains is that there is still an undisclosed emergency that is less important where this has been established, both in time and in length. Emergency conditions could be economic issues, etc. but, as I say, it's less important, so it's a perennial approach and a good thing that the committee could work on this professional situation.
