ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u1	The president considers it possible for a conference to last longer, but the body of Congress dictates if needed to complete the issues on the program of two conferences. Then the president wants to inform us that the votes are planned to end a discussion on the events of the first meeting, hoping that they will be no later than about. 16 possible sooner if you're doing well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u2	As answers are: Economic and economic Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Health Ministers, Foreign and Development Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, and Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u3	Mr. President. I'm going to talk to the highest. Ministers on the basis of small companies all over the country, especially for tourism. For some reason, small companies still have fewer items in this area, despite the fact that they are the national vertebral device and support them as a key factor in increasing sectoral diversity. Sad to say, a job compression is a very well - known consequence of a crisis. As we now look forward to a massive recession, even total freezing in tourism, the risk for this compression is increased. The number of possessions is increasing, the most valuable jobs will be removed from the small, the rest will be left behind. We are stuck with a more efficient, uniform, and poorer tourism service. Has the highest. Ministers are worried about this? Is he concerned that banks and funds, even owned by the government, would choose to assist large companies they've bet on to buy less than interesting companies serving around the country? If this crisis led to a trip to Iceland, on a bus, in a hotel, down in whales' boats, and ended up in a nice boat, where the companies all owned more or less the same owners?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u4	A respectable president. Most of the jobs are for SMEs in Iceland, and that is why I can agree with it. A member of the body is making the changes because of the pandemic that they give proportionately in favour of the larger companies would be very bad. It is likely that we would simply reduce our jobs in the country. One reason was that the Independence Party traveled earlier this year, particularly in order to bring home small companies all over the country. I think, at the end of the day, we've come home to some 100 companies. What we received during these visits was varied, e.g. to want to do more without public intervention. The load of rules often came to the talking and pay - related fees we have been paying to this government by taking the insurance bill in small steps. Let us also bear in mind that when we discuss large companies that pay taxes to society and are important in their dealings with small companies, they too were once small. Some small companies are growing, and they want to take more on them, and we are not supposed to fight them. When we talk about tourism, it is just that we see, especially in the more scattered areas of the country, that tourism companies that are small in growth are very prominent among those who are exceptionally ill - affected by the outbreak of Korean virus. There is reason to observe how we can help them through this time. I believe that many of the government resources that have happened to the council were very useful to them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u5	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for your travel history. So he was able to study a bill that I asked for support in a small and medium - sized company, which includes just the indications that he received on the fine journey. But I would like to ask, Has he heard because this compression has already begun and can even give an example? Were the bills and criteria for support specifically in preventing compression? And then because there is a government bill, which is actually a weakness of competitive legislation in Iceland, I would like to ask, according to the words of Gylfi Magnússon: Will the loud demands of corporations and their organization of weakening Icelandic competitiveness, or will the general public enjoy the protection he has enjoyed so far? In other words, in view of today's crisis, can a minister consider taking the bill back to the drawing table and considering the interests of consumers?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u6	A respectable president. This does not necessarily indicate that there is a big problem in Iceland's business environment for some compression to take place. We need to examine the matter from a slightly wider perspective, especially taking into account that many smaller companies have been difficult to handle. He has not been making much money, and it may just be a great conclusion for an enterprise that has already been set up and has some future but is having a bad time growing with the small amount of money available to achieve agreements about unity. That way, humans can finally create valuables from all their work, so I don't want to mean that compression is necessarily bad. We need to be careful that the competition laws serve not only the goals we have specifically aimed at but, at the same time, do not be too burdensome for our work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u7	A respectable president. V.E.G. Early in the week, the prime minister informed of ideas and plans. The minister of foreign affairs to build defenses and ports in Helguvík would have been deposed on the Board of Ministers on state funds that discussed the budget. It made it clear that the proposal of a foreign minister had been rejected. Now I want to ask the highest. Secretary of State whether he will follow this suggestion, first of all, in connection with a financial program that will be presented either after a few weeks or possibly later in the summer. Will he follow this suggestion after them? Has he ever had the importance of the proposal for Iceland's safety and protection? I sense that there is a considerable support for these ideas, and I believe to the highest degree. A minister of the State needs clear answers and clear support, but more than that, people in the South need clear answers. That's normal in all of this. That's why I want to ask the highest. A minister whether he will continue these ideas in the area where he has far more support than a government team and a government leader. As I could about the past, I sense a body of Congress so it's a great deal of willingness to go over ideas of the highest order. Ministers and follow them, mainly for safety and protection reasons, but also for clarifying matters on the Southnes. How's the top? Minister to follow this suggestion? Will we see its mark in the financial program, or will it go to the Board of Foreign Affairs and National Security according to events?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I'm glad there's a debate over the security and defence issue, and I've called for more attention in this field to be taken away, not to mention among the people. As we know, the safety and protection zone has been limited, not just in recent years, but in recent decades. There is a great need for maintenance. It is a pleasure to know that in those words, as it were, we are going on the most maintenance program we have seen for a very long time. It's also good to have it back at this time, and when all is taken together, it's about that. 12.5 billion. The last time something was done, in 2002, it was very small. Hv. A senator points to the fact that when the extra funds were made through the infrastructure, I suggested ideas that I consider reasonable. It doesn't have to be surprising that I come up with these ideas, and I hope we're going to discuss these matters, not just what has to do with this unique idea, but when it comes to security and defense, and how we can best deal with it in the present and future. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator completely knows that when it comes to my thinking that something is reasonable, I follow through and I'm not going to tell anything about it. On the other hand, it is perfectly natural for humans to want to discuss it, both within the government and elsewhere, and at that time they come to some conclusion. However, it has been a pleasure to see that finally men are discussing security and protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u9	A respectable president. I'll agree with the highest. Minister. I'm not going to say that the current ports and tenders that are about to be completed in June are of utmost importance to Iceland's security and protection interest and further development in the area. The question about these ideas remains, and I call for a clear answer to the question: Will the highest. Ministers follow their proposal for building in Helguvík, which is related to the safety and defences of our Icelanders? Will he follow up on the development of financial programmes and national security committees and after events within the foreign committee? I don't like it if it's the highest. Secretary of State is in position that a team of colleagues, the government leader, the Left Green, has come to say no in calling for discussion and making decisions on important matters, such as defense and security. I'm not only calling for answers from the highest level. Secretary of State, whether or not he will abide by these suggestions for Iceland's security and defense and for the interests of the South, but also for the best of our ability to discuss it and we want to show it. Minister for this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u10	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. However, I felt that it was a problem. A senator could have been a bit more open when she was talking about supporting me and not just in this matter, it would have been okay if something else had followed along. I'm sure it'll be next time. Just to put it in context, this isn't the only suggestion that didn't go through at the brief of the time these extra laws were made. It is not right to put this into the context that this is the only case that occurred during the brief period of human investment. We offered various suggestions that were involved in the ministry, many other than the defense. It's not quite so we can get our whole thing through. I don't make any comments, either within the government or elsewhere, that they want to discuss these matters. It was just one extra law, but we should discuss this matter in a larger context, another would be unnatural. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u11	A respectable president. In the news, a real estate society is accused of extreme brutality, where tens of millions have been raised by tens of millions in a company closed in Covid's motion. The largest part of this increase, 400,000 k, is due to an increase in the index value of consumer prices. 400,000 per month due to an increase in index price of 5 million per year. This company may be applying for grants and masquerade, and I ask: Is strength and loan to run through their pockets and directly into the pockets of a real estate society that is full of bullshit money? Then I'm going to get into another addiction, the gambling habit. At the same time that 85% of the people say they should not play cards, I ask: Is it normal for Iceland's Red Cross, Landsbourg, U.S.A., and Iceland's University to continue playing machines? It is now discovered that while the crates were closed, the benefits of compulsive gamblers were greatly improved. There are a small number of individuals who maintain all of this, some 10◯12 billion, of which there are only 40 to50% vegetation, and the rest is all the cost that goes abroad. Is it not reasonable for state funds to negotiate with these parties and to make sure that government funds come out of financial resources rather than on a few addicts who put everything on the table, including the rest of them? Homes, as a result, are vulnerable and in no way allowed by such necessary societies will depend on gambling addicts who support them?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u12	A respectable president. It's a little hard to deal with occasional rent increases. I think it's an emergency. A senator refers to B5 at Banka Street, which has been in the press and discussed the rise of rent. What, though, did she raise, and where did she compare with other rent in the next house? I don't have any grounds to deal with this case, but I can totally agree with that. A senator is very strange that companies that have had to close because of government orders have to be held in such trades at this time. I can agree with that, but there's no other basis to discuss this. With the slot machines, you're right about what you're talking about. A senator said that the number of people who have to deal with gambling is a disaster. It is a valid question: How large a part of their problems are the open machines? Here is the big question: If not in the machines, where else do compulsive gamblers look? Hv. A member of the United States suggests that a variety of charitable organizations and other members who are involved in such intensive community - care projects are financed. Then there are other things on the edge of the machines, the lottery, and the lotto, and what all of them are. I'm a spokesman for the fact that we don't end up with all of this, but the machines aren't really that way that I'm going to measure them out in a special way. [[The president calls.]] We need to find some balance in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u13	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance the answers I agree with, too. Never this was the last time we ever sided with the law, the law of consumption. Why not take the initiative to build a gambling room where compulsive gamblers could release your addiction? They could be helped. You can have chips that don't need to buy, but you just use and think outside the box. It's so lame that the Red Cross is dependent on this, Landsbourg, rescue and accident defences, U.S.A. and the University of Iceland, where we're education people. Why on earth do we have a slot box all around us, on a shop, and in front of young people? We must be able to take it out, and we should make sure that now, because the places have been shut down, keeping it closed, finding new ways, and stopping it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u14	A respectable president. I have to say, "What?" A senator surprised me by speaking so strongly against gambling but then talking about opening up the slots. I don't know exactly what to say, I think there's a point. A senator would certainly find it easier to keep strict watch over who would be allowed to participate, etc. The big question left is, Can gambling addicts be helped by any of these changes? I'm not well enough in this to say anything about it. I reiterate what I've said before, we have to do better to support those who deal with this addiction and possibly place additional responsibility for those who have such halls open. And it's always very difficult to find exactly the correct process of this, including Because the technology has opened new paths for those who deal with gambling to get rid of it there, so to speak. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u15	A respectable president. By the time of two millenniums, Kristur said on the cross: "Father, forgive them, for they don't know what they are doing. It is not that the occasion today is too serious, but there is evidence that when it was written under a so - called capital agreement on the structure and funding of transport infrastructure in the capital area, representatives of the government were not fully aware of what they were doing. Meeting pressure as high as possible. Secretary of finance signed along with the highest. The prime minister and secretary of transportation for the government seems to be interpreted in a way that the wildest dreams in the city of Reykjavík can come true. As we all know, they seem to have the wildest dreams of the day, going out of the way, slowing down the family car's traffic. I'd like to give one example, but there's plenty of them that seems to be. In the fifth unit of the agreement as the highest. The minister's signature under which a quick implementation is discussed includes: magazine on the streets of Bhubby Ways and Smokeynes Ways. I allow myself to claim that few have an imagination to ask specifically, " Is it not true that there would be a misdirection at that particular point? ' Most people gave in to the fact that they did. That's what I'm saying. Today, at a meeting of the Environment and Transport Committee, it has been observed that Reykjavíkurburg does not want to allow more misdirections and that there is a need for work to take place. So I ask a minister: Did these three ministers sign up to 120 billion projects without determining if any of the priorities of the Roadmaker in the flow of the family car were successful? Has there been a $120 billion agreement where there will be no new misdirections at the drawing table in Reykjavík, where traffic knots and delays are most common?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u16	A respectable president. Hv. One senator said that when the capital agreement, the meeting, or the treaty was made, people did not realize what they were doing, but I simply drew attention to the fact that in this contract, there are strong warnings about the arrival of the General Assembly. They are of great importance because they refer to what the General will set out on a transport program and thus plan on the order of priorities. Second, it is possible to mention the warning on the legal rights to fulfill the terms of the State's contract commitment or this declaration, rather than a contract. The financial rights to finance the agreement are in the custody of the Generals. Third, let me mention that there is a higher priority in this declaration on the rest of the funding considered, that there are still unscrupulous cases, e.g. that if a person went into a special payment to finance the project, this would never happen unless he had a bill submitted to the council and settled here. In fact, the case still stands up for custody and under the rule of the Generals. As for these specific corners, I'll just say that in preparatory talks, there were some developed ideas that these crossposts and that they had been doing a misdirectional tournament, which is exactly an example of what I drew attention to earlier, that at the end of the year, it is Generalis to control how the agreement will be conducted.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u17	A respectable president. I'd like to start by celebrating this reaction to the highest degree. Secretary of finance. Happily, this is the way I hoped the government would understand. The situation today is that the city representatives of Reykjavík seem to interpret the agreement in a very different way. I think that the first time is the best time to guide the different understanding of the earth, so that there will be a sound and a picture together in this matter. Just this weekend was presented with a plan for the city's assessment line online, and there's the message that the private car is to squeeze, reduce the lane of Southland, for example, make Holfis Street a single-way street, and I don't know what and what, shut down all traffic around Hlemm, so at the moment it doesn't mix sound and image. It's important we get this straight. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister in the context of his bill for the institution of a community to keep up with these projects whether or not it has been considered to set up the company but not to move the country of Köldnað into the organization until an organization has been completed from the city of Reykjavík. [[The president calls.]] There is fear of organizational contact with the city of Reykjavík on transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u18	A respectable president. There is much new in the agreement to bring the Netherlands into this society, and it means that in this arrangement the government has increased the scope of the law on public finances to make better use of the balance of economics. Possessions that are almost as dead to the State's balance account come to life if we find ways to create these valuables in an evolutionary society as appropriate here. Whether the timing of the exuberance needs careful - I'm not quite ready to tell myself if there was such a disagreement that it was not yet time. I'm just calling attention to the fact that the state is continuing to have a very, very big approach to the company. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u19	President. The population of the country has been hit by a major financial blow on the account of Covid, the tourists are not coming. On the one hand, I would like to ask the highest. A seafaring minister on the status of smallboat sailors, on the status of marine areas that are unable to participate in the gray escapes, and on the coastal fishing. The minister would like to deny that all of this is a misunderstanding, but many of the little boatmen, many of them, point out that there are fewer codfish they can now provide. At best, it's the same situation, but many people want to say it's worse than last year. A minister has since allowed someone in one area to go and go beyond what the Oceanographic Institute has said is self-sustained. This would be possible elsewhere, too, if it were a political wish. A minister in his campaign package to Covid, which he advertised on March 27, has allowed more space to transport resources from year to year. It would be possible with the beach fishing, moving it into this year that wasn't granted last year. The minister has said, at a meeting he set up for the pro board last time, that he does not have the legal authority to do so. He can get the legal authority here at the General Assembly to do so, to move the 123/414% who were not caught last year in the coasts to this year, thus giving up. We see that the settlements in this country are seriously affected by Covid, and now another blow is due to the fact that it is poorly controlled by people who are going to hunt are forbidden to go fishing. This could be done, and a minister would have the authority to do so rather than go down or go to sea as far as the beach fishing is concerned. A minister can come down here and get a legal license to transfer something that wasn't granted last year, which is a sustainable approach. The minister's going to move 25% of what the big productions aren't fishing this year until next year, and that means in September because the next fishing year. [[The president calls.]] A minister has an opportunity to contribute to the country's settlements for Covid, for the smaller parties. What is he going to do about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u20	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. There's a misunderstanding in her. Twenty-five percent isn't new. There is 15% access in the current protocol for translocation from year to year. It's not an entry that is of particular benefit to the large production. [[Up front.]] This is best accomplished by less fishing in the fish markets, those who are usually fishing for the spring and are catching the most fresh fish market, who have picked up the market and found themselves in trouble as a result of market difficulties. This will benefit them best, but not necessarily this fear - inspiring phenomenon, the great structure, as some would mean. Fishing control of a gray patch is the way it is. We're in charge of this by parish, there's days and there's some advice. Yes, this certainly does not concern those who had either just begun or had not begun. The worst of all, the Brefjörður's area went out of this because they were prevented from starting fishing until May 20. On the day of March 10, others on grayeys could begin to hunt, and there was no one who decided to do so unless they themselves did when they started. We are certainly stretching only on counseling, but this is to meet those who had no advantage until May 20. Regarding the coastal fishing and translocation, it is far more complex than moving from year to year with a simple change of law. Then we must simply put the entire law of law on 5.3% of the local peninsula into something completely different from that of today. It's a bigger project than that, and then it happens in a few days to move from one side to another. While there is no change in the structure of the local rat and catch-up systems, we have 5.3% of all the fishing clearances in the pot, and all of them are assigned to every fin, there is no room for the Minister or government at any time to meet the tragedy. The Congress has destroyed all of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u21	President. The minister may seek the help of the General for legal rights to do so. It's been two months since the Minister offered suggestions that would benefit those in the eater system, i.e. March 27th, transfer a greeting from year to year. Yes, it is true that smaller parties are also useful than those in the beach fishing system, and those who are in gray fishing are not getting this. I ask: Will a minister not do anything for them, except for this one person who couldn't begin to hunt? What about all the others who hadn't started fishing? It wasn't well held. I'll tell you what I'll read out of this. What I'm reading out of this is that those who're going to be outside the dinner system just get a little rough on it. Then they're coming up with a new beach fishing bill. Is a minister really not going to do anything for them? Is he just gonna wait until a new beach fishing bill comes? Is nothing to do now? Is he just gonna wait until he says goodbye to a gray break? Is nothing to do now for the communities that are seriously affected by Covid's failure to achieve increased value or even lower value in their communities? [[The president calls.]] A minister can do that now. He can ask the council for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u22	A respectable president. What you can do was last year. I'd like to stress that there's no subject change in the operation of fishing warrants to shore fishing between the fishing year and last year, none. There's exactly the same authority in the Regulation this year as last year -- no, no, it's just the same thing, 11,100 tons, that's just the way it is. [[Up front.]] Minister's permission to add to this is no one. The Ministry has met twice with the presidents of the National Association of Smallboat owners and called for their ideas of changing how we can plan our fishing. [[Up front.]] A law warrant for doing what, taking a catch that is not a provision? [[The president calls.]] I'm pointing out what. A senator, a respectable president, is that the law has given all the fishing warrants, according to the advice of the Aeronautics Agency, for this year so that there is nothing to take away except anyone who is looking for any future warrants. I'm not the kind of prophet I am. It is a Meritional Institute that we support in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u23	V.E.G. President. Although I do not intend to give a long talk, I have to admit that I am very thoughtful about this bill. I've wondered that if this bill had come from the Independence Party, they would have asked: " Is this now the most important issue today, in the middle of Covid, with a biologist? I have never really liked using drugs or other drugs, but I have always felt the need to be responsible for my own conduct. I remember that when I, um... 25 years, suggested that men stop punishing for this, they watched me as if I weren't exactly from this world, but the sound is clearly different now. I notice that some of those who are very supportive of this consumption bill cannot consider increasing their freedoms in the trade of alcohol. They'd rather not play machines. I noticed why. 12th p.m. We're out of here. "Ingi Kristinsson, Guðmundur Ignsson, is very against slot machines. You might wonder: " What are we going to do with those addicts? These machines, these things they're wearing, aren't they the finest of consumers? I was just waiting for an answer. Isn't that the finest way to eat? There is, of course, something wrong with where a person may feel authorized, and in part, at the expense of taxpayers, the use of illegal substances. Of course, we must first make it legal. There are a lot of contradictions in planning to create some space for the consumption of illicit drugs, which would be in no legal way at all. Someone would say that this was really a terrible wrong message, that we are accepting and building up space to consume illegal substances. To me, this doesn't work out. I always say, people have to be responsible for themselves, and I'm ready, at taxpayers' expense, to help people who want to quit and who have not given up in them. But it is different about this kind of message, saying that we should make such a lot of money. It's not just because it's a health problem. It's because we have to realize that we're creating an area where we're going to replace the law of the land and provide something that is not permitted at all. This must be the wrong approach. If we're going to go out into this, we must, in my mind, start by saying that there's some amount of protection, at least penalties, if only penalties. Then I can quite understand that men say: Okay, it's health care that those who intend to take these substances are somewhere near professionals who can intervene if something goes wrong. But the approach in this bill, I don't support, since men are clearly more and less, supporters of this bill, somehow filled with some kind of contradiction and double - skindity that I find very difficult to understand. One senator said here at 2nd. that it was human rights - that is a perfectly ruined word - to be allowed to consume illegal substances in a community specific space. I just don't get that conversation. I think if we're gonna keep this against you, it's gonna have to be forbidden. But if we're going to make some sort of space and help people, we need to start by taking the penalty out of law, that these materials are not an arrangement for holding them in custody. I hear there's no particular interest in it anywhere. [[The point is, I hope not.]] - I hope not, some say. I noticed a lot of things in the talks. Of course, I don't particularly agree with what. Ásmundur Ásundur Friðriksson, in case of addictive and drug abuse, and especially alcohol. [[Up front.]] In his speech, he said that he had been in the state's custody at the age of 20, and he was very opposed to the social deduction of his own government on alcohol. Then I wondered what he would have been doing in SUS. But that's different. When undergoing such operations, we need to think things through. This will create problems around these places. This will create problems for law enforcement officers. This will be, I fear, for no profit, even for harm. I suggest, rather, for decades, because I agree that drug abuse is primarily a health problem and a social problem, that it would be criminal rather than creating such problems.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u24	A respectable president. I notice why. A senator may go over to the supposed hypocrisy of others when he must find an excuse not to support the matter of freedom. He comes here with a sly tone of voice about the importance of freedom in the other, but then when they are put aside by someone other than the independent party, then one thing or another has to do somehow differently. I may think I know the answer in advance to my question, but I hope so. A senator surprises me. Hv. A senator put forth the excellent idea of taking possession of drugs in some form of criminality, or something similar. It's called criminal abuse, i.e. that consumers are not criminals just for using drugs or legalized drugs to share their rations. It so happens that the bill has been submitted by Pirata council members, of course. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, from the left green, and from members of the Controversies, restoration, and Shockers of the so - called gang of crime. That bill has existed since October last year. Hv. By means of his talk, a senator was not aware that this bill had been submitted. However, my information is that we've requested two interested persons from all categories. I don't know any better than any members of Congress. A senator was asked to accompany him, to make this case, but they don't. I just want to ask you what. In view of the fact that I've done here, a senator, in view of these data, made obvious. A member of Parliament: Does he support a matter of criminal possession of illegal drugs?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u25	V.E.G. President. Yeah, all the same, I'd be there to support it. I haven't seen anyone talk about Pirata's bill. I'm more likely to have some defects, so I couldn't support it, it might be thoughtful. [[For example, where is freedom?]] But I'm just pointing to the double skin and contradictions in people. It's what they said. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi, who was willing to take it all away so that you could have drugs the way you like, but the same person can't imagine that alcohol is sold unless there's a tremendous limit. You wonder, " Wait, what kind of people are these? ' They are somehow endless contradictions. I've always felt that men should be responsible for themselves, and I'm not going to go on punishment. I'm not interested in it, and I've never had, to use drugs, it's a health problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u26	The president asks why. The senator to refer to other members of Parliament in full name and to be moderate in word when referring to the views or opinions of other members of Congress. Hv. A senator can disagree completely with them, but it is a good practice to discuss the viewpoints of others with moderate words.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u27	A senator's waiting for respect for this. But as I say, I can quite agree to delinquency of this consumption, or to use no punishment. I have never considered punishment from men for what they are to be responsible for, for themselves, and for their lives. Of course, there is something else if these materials are being distributed in some way, that is not the case. But to me, there are amazing contradictions and double skins here, and I'm not going off it, chief. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u28	A respectable president. The person here feels that it should not be forbidden to live in his home. The person here feels that alcohol should be sold at grocery stores or in public stores. I think so. So I don't have my twin skin with me. But I don't understand why. A senator. If he can find any senator somewhere in his opinion who has an opinion that is contradictory, he will always be able to justify it when he himself is opposed to freedom. It's not just this case; I came up here to answer because I didn't expect another answer like I did in my previous answer. Well, maybe. A senator not only supported his freedom, at least persuaded his members to support his freedom when it is proposed here, e.g. The members of Pirata's council? What's so awful about it? Why is it first necessary to put alcohol into a camp before it is possible to stop punishing people for the use of drugs, or before it is permitted to make a living at home, or before it is permitted to blaspheme, display pornography, or whatever it is that Pirantars suggest, or at least some of their members, that we do not suffer? Hv. A senator always points to someone else's alleged hypocrisy. A respectable president. That some other senator or other people have conflicting views is not a basis for a conclusion. Senator. Where it is. A senator has not read Pirata's bill, and I'll offer to e - mail it to him, hoping that he will read it and give encouraging suggestions on what may be more beneficial. I would just do a lot of good, and I'd love to get help. A senator to increase his freedom in this country. But for some reason, it does not appear when it comes to matters unless they come from an independent class.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u29	V.E.G. President. This case is not Pirata's case, it's a bill of directors if I remember correctly, or a matter of freedom if they think so. This is not a matter of freedom and is much less true of human rights, as some claim during the discussion. The decision is to allow illegal substances to be consumed in a special area, still illegal. We can talk about freedom if we stop punishing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u30	Why not right now?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u31	- You can do it because of me. I'm just talking about it being so peculiar. My speech was nothing about Pirata. My speech was about the contradiction of the supporters of this bill. [[Up front.]] I'm not going to support a bill that allows consumption of substances that are still illegal. [[The point is, even though it's a government bill?]] I'm still going to call it freedom or human rights. This is some kind of bullshit. But I'll discuss Pirata's bill of freedom, to stop punishing people for taking certain substances. People must be responsible for them themselves, that is a matter of freedom. The same is true of alcohol. There's never been a special interest in it in Pirates, they may not have opposed it, but I've never found any particular interest in running it through. [[Foreground on:]] [[Take it up: wrong.]] There's been some difference of opinion about that. [[Up front.]] - No, I'm just talking about this not a matter of freedom and not of human rights. [[For example, I don't think anybody was saying that.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u32	The president recommends not to be having a conversation while the speaker is commenting. Marty's senators would like to say what. paritaprevir The Brynjar of the son of Níelsson at a council meeting to deal with him with a deeper discussion, one of the ideas. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u33	A respectable president. If there is a big issue, there are often few answers. What I have to say is that in this discussion, we need to understand that addiction, whether known as drug addiction, drug addiction, gambling, or greed, has been the course of mankind for centuries. What have we tried to do over and over again? This should be closed by law and ban. Has it worked? No, things always get worse. I just agree with what. paritaprevir In many respects, the Brynjar of the son of Níelsson shows that our hypocrisy is incredible. We can go to the State Alcohol store and buy some wine. We can buy wine at a liquor store when we leave the country and get back, but we can't get it in the mail. We can, however, go to the state, buy wine for others, post it in mail, and send it ashore. In many ways, we make spectacular rules. I support the consumption space of my mind. I think it sucks to know that individuals are injecting themselves even in toilets, in shitty circumstances, in basement holes, and in playgrounds. One thing that has struck me too is that in Denmark 90% of needles disappeared in a certain area. The needles were only in public. We're supposed to think a little bit outside the box. We've tried everything else. It's time we tried something else and stopped viewing this as illegal. It's just an addiction that needs to be handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u34	V.E.G. President. It's what it is. paritaprevir Is this addiction really a Ingi's Kristinsson that we can cope with it by opening it up? No. That's why I mentioned why. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson in my speech is that he had during an unprepared question period suggested that slot machines be no longer allowed. That's what I find in a crying conflict with this case, and that's what I don't understand. It would be closer to calling the gambler a lot of drinking space. We don't fix our addiction, it's just bad drugs. Of course, if there is no gambling hall, the addicts play elsewhere. Senator. They do not suddenly stop playing because there are no slot machines anywhere. [[To the point: Are we talking machines?]] No, we're not. I'm just talking about this not gonna solve any problems. I'm completely convinced that, since I know a lot of things in this world, it's also a big misunderstanding if you think that all consumers suddenly go into a lot of consumers. I can promise you that. A senator, that you do not go to a lot of consumers in the middle of the business. They take the drugs because they are at any given time, they always have, and they will always do so. I can assure you what. That's what a senator's got to do with it. Of course, we have many addictions. I don't want to resort to punishment, and I don't believe that punishment will correct any addiction. I never believed that. But it doesn't mean that everything we do and some freedom will make things better, I think it can even make things worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u35	A respectable president. In many ways, I agree. A senator of punishment doesn't deserve anything. We punish people for using drugs and for putting them in prisons where drugs are everywhere, so there is no solution. Somehow, however, we must find new solutions. I hope consumption is a new solution because we look at things in a very different way than we ever did. The first step is to stop punishing sick people. That's what I was talking about with compulsive gamblers. Although I was talking about gambling space, I was just saying that we need to think things differently than we do right now. It sucks that a certain relief organization is sustained by the addiction of others. It is just as if we were dealing with the government's drug trade, which, in many respects, might be better because it was the drug - controlled product and it was known what men were doing. We have no idea today. We've heard that chemicals are produced by all kinds of filth, even by rats. It's like roulette taking drugs. In itself, the person who does so does not know what he is injecting. If we had a government drug sale, it would be under surveillance and it could be earned, but I don't think there's a sound basis for it. What we are doing today with rules and regulations has not worked, and the problem is growing. We have to try to find another solution, and I think this is a tiny step in trying to find new solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u36	V.E.G. President. We agree, though, that severe punishment does not help anyone who is struggling with addiction. The reason I don't like the bill and I won't support it is because I don't think it's for the benefit and even for the most. That's what I'm trying to explain. This contains very incorrect messages while we have these items punished. This creates problems around consumption and etc. This may be useful to someone, but this is why I don't think it's good. I'm a little surprised at how much emphasis is put on this matter and a good deal of effort I've made to get it across parapoliticly and then listen to the language around what is totally opposed to the motion of talking about other addictions. What I find so incomprehensible in this sort of conversation is that people take one out and then say everything else when they talk about another addiction that can be just as harmful as this one. We are always dealing with the weaknesses of a human being. We have long believed that punishment would correct all of this, but I think we are finally learning that heavy punishment has nearly ruined people's lives at a delicate age. Some say that appropriate punishment, mild punishment, can even help many. There may be a bit of a point, but then let us be consistent with ourselves and have a sense of reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u37	A respectable president. Here's a vote for consumption space. In the community, there is a group of addicts who need much help. He has been treated lovingly by Mrs. Ragnhönhön, and there are people who have helped these individuals with extraordinary self - sacrificing love. This law opens the way for new addicts, younger addicts, to take advantage of such situations. I am told by more informed men in medical situations that the temptation to allow young addicts to enter such situations as quiet and quiet will become sooner common to the temptation they face. So I'll say no to this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u38	Mr. President. I consider this prime minister of health care, who is bent on legalizing drugs into certain consumers that are not good. The most important thing to do is to help addicts stop using drugs, that is to be the main focus of the public rather than the legal practice in a certain area. Plans to change criminal orders and years of action require careful preparation, especially when changing the legal role of the police and their obligations to the treatment of the criminal. I don't think this case is properly prepared, which reveals that the district attorney was not originally among the 94 members who received a request from a welfare committee. This project may work against itself. There is a risk of increasing the number of drug addicts when such abuse is legalized in certain places. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u39	A respectable president. I'd like to use this opportunity to celebrate, in particular, that we're here to make this bill a law. This is the first real step in dealing with damages supported by legislation. It is long time to take this step. This is a radical step, it is well built, and it shows the strength of the legislatator in these matters. We are in this way saving lives. We're showing respect for people who are in a particularly difficult situation, and they're crowded out of every population in the community. How important it is that we meet the people where they stand and show them respect! I am proud to be a health minister at this turning point and thank you. The welfare committee for very good work, as well as the transnational support shown on the pay table.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u40	President. I'm gonna start by thanking the highest. A health minister for this bill and for the courage it shows in volunteering it. This is an enormously important step, and this is humanitarian. We're taking a step toward meeting people where they are, not trying to tear them down to some place where we want them to be. We know it doesn't work. It's just to save lives, and it's really important to the loss, that we're looking more in that direction. Hopefully, the next step will include the possession of drug abuse in the community, the open arms, the help of people, and the means to punish those who have addictions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u41	Mr. President. I'm so glad we're accepting this bill today. V.E.G. A health minister spoke of courage, and I would like to commend her for having had the courage to present the bill and all of us for having the courage to show compassion and respect for the addicts. That's what it's all about. It's about opening the system to those who may have walked on a wall all their life. It is about increasing the confidence of the group with no confidence in the system, providing necessary health and social services, providing him with compassion and compassion. It's such a case. For word's sake. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, of the fact that a state prosecutor and police have not turned in a review, I state that they were specifically sought for their comments and arguments. The welfare committee answered that neither office felt that there was any need to make comments because all the indications they had previously made were being met. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u42	A respectable president. I'm gonna have the courage to press yes and support this bill, but I have to admit that it's difficult. Although I find it difficult to give up on drugs, I still feel that it is wise to do so. I think, in this way, we are best protected from the individuals dependent on these bad things, and as a result, it is a medical matter, and it is likely our first step in a reduction and new means of combating the problems drugs are and the social problems they create each year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u43	A respectable president. What a joy it is to see the table of votes and to see that this matter is being made legal! Thank you very much. A health minister for having had the courage to put that forward and for good work, both at ease. The welfare committee, as well as the Ministry. I can get a little bit of that we've come to this place. It was not necessarily that this council and this nation were not too long to be open to departing from punishments and shorts and going to harm, help, and love. This is an important matter for freedom and human rights. Now, the next step is obvious, that crime - based drug abuse can make sure that people are safe despite addictions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u44	I'd also like to start by thanking the health minister for offering the bill and having a hard time finishing it at the council with us. This is not a radical step. Science and facts show that because this has been tried, there will be results. As a result, health conditions are much better. I talked to the president of Switzerland when we and Piratar were working on our drug policy. There, this had been done for many years, perhaps 15 years. Why? Because it will bring better health to all the people of the land. I checked what was done in Portugal. This protected consumption from drug abuse from crime. Why did the Portuguese do that? Because there was an outbreak of opiates in the land, and AIDS was spreading everywhere. The results I examined in a report that came out six years later were that the epidemic did not increase, and it subsided, and health was guaranteed. We know all of this so that those who do not wish to support the matter on the grounds that there is a humanitarian issue with addicts should consider the general and well - being of all the people of the country who are protected by it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u45	Mr. President. I strongly support this bill. I don't think it gives evidence of surrender in the fight against drugs. Rather, it shows the courage to face reality, the courage to show kindness to the groups most needed in this situation. This is an important and precious step that I and the rest of my mind support. Thank you very much. Ministers for having taken the initiative and cooperated with the council. This is an example of a case, of course, of course. The president, who has been well equipped to cooperate within and without a council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u46	A respectable president. This is always important when we take steps to reduce taxes and expenses. During the trip, we have put much emphasis on lowering the clock charges on everyone, removing the clock charges, and especially in these times, it is important that we think about overall rather than interest alone, as it seems to me in this matter. We have specifically suggested that the clock be canceled, and this would be a good option for the homes and for those who may be standing. In real estate. [[Up front.]] This is certainly a step toward reducing the paying rate, but this is the priorities of the government for the general population of pay-offs, and I don't feel that a larger and more general step is being taken in the interests of public interest rather than in particular interests. That's why I won't vote with this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u47	A respectable president. I say no to this bill, and that's only because there's only one group out there that doesn't have to pay an unfair price. Young people who are buying their first apartment today have to pay for this price, and this happens in homes. In that case, I will not support the case because we are supposed to start with the homes, and it is best to take this unfair fee away and think things over. As it's settled, it's completely ridiculous and that's why I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u48	Mr. President. Sometimes you get a little out of your mind about what's going on in this room. This is one of those moments. Is it really so that the three government groups consider the middle of a pandemic to reduce taxes to companies that buy big ships? That's what this is about. They're taking down taxes from those companies, from the big estate, when they buy big ships. This is in the fact that fishing costs have dropped by half since this government began. It's a peculiar priorities, but it shows how well the interests always operate here. These same government groups did not hesitate to make a suggestion that would allow students to enjoy unemployment during the summer. There was no problem for the left green, forward, and independence party, but when it comes to reducing the taxes on the big estate, it flies through the record speed - and in the middle of a pandemic, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] It's a scandal, and of course I'll say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u49	Mr. President. This matter that we now vote may not be involved in one of the big issues, but it is a huge case because it tells a story about government priorities, tells a story about the priorities of left green, independent group, and forwarding classes, which count in these times of all times an urgent task to further reduce the budget. It's nice to turn down insurance on the project at the same time as it's reduced to others, to homes, to companies, and to others of interest. Correction has repeatedly brought up cases on the reduction of insurance bills for everyone. The matter of delinquency will most likely die of death. Perhaps we should have had this in connection with the special interests established by the government. I have a bad taste in my mouth that I'm not on the red button over this incredible display, but this is a decrease in tax, and I will sit by. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-20-106.u50	A respectable president. Much attention was drawn in society, and during the days a wave of scandal was raised when the prospective inheritance of the owners of the largest and most powerful factory of the country to its offspring was revealed. It was a premeditated inheritance in premeditated profits, making the amount of dizziness. One down. A senator, a spokesman for the management of the fishing business, put it well when he said that this was the summer gift of these owners to their offspring. This is where we vote whether or not we're going to participate in the fact that Iceland's government is giving this whole country big marketing this summer. I say no.
