ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u1	As the president has previously specified by this chair, efforts are being made to reexamine the terms of the General Assembly. All council members are members of the committee. By letter, the president requested the names of all members of Congress on the House of Congress and is appointed as well as the president of the Generals, the following members of Congress: Independence class: Birgir son of an Ármannsson. From the left movement ◯ Green supply: Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir From advance, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson. Middle-class Karl Gauti Hjaltason. From the United States of America, Oddný G. Harðardóttir. From the Pirates, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson. Backing up: Valdimarsson Steindór Valmardsson. From the Gang of the People: Sæland Goad. The Constitution Committee has already started work, met, including twice on committee days last week, and we'll meet tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u2	There have been letters received from the following labourlors requesting every time to provide written answers to queries: From travel, industrial and innovation ministers for the request of a panel. 550 on the personnel case of the Minister's Office, from Birgir Þórarinsson. From the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Minister for the Scourge. 573 of the Ministry's staff and the establishments of the Minister's case, from Þórarinsson. From the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a question on the deck. 572, on staff matters of the Ministry, from Birgir the son of Þórarinsson, to the threshing floor. 584, search for submarines, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson; and on a deck. 788, of the committee, staff and management groups, of the Lord Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson. From the Environment and Resource Minister for Information on Theft. 571, on the staff matter of the Ministry and its institutions, from Birgir the son of Þórarinsson. I'm from the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs for a question on the deck. 618 of the heads of state to raise the staff's pension from Ólafur Ísleifsson. Finally, there is a letter from the Department of Social Affairs for the aim of an inquiry. 794, on committees, staff and management groups, from the Þorsteinn of Víglundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u3	Consider: Prime Ministers, economic and economic ministers, health ministers, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, marine and agricultural ministers, and transport and local government ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u4	President. In the news last night, U.S.R.R.R.S.R.R.R. was a talk about experimental culture with a hammer in Gautavík, Beruðð. There's a powerful focus on developing sustainable and environmental products from an industrial disaster. I've had this conversation with the Minister of Industrial Affairs twice and I'm about to have a chance to ask the highest degree. Health Minister to this point, however, there is evidence that industrial disasters have been cultivated in Iceland for several centuries, up to the ban against cannabis in the middle of the last century. Industrial disaster is a substance that replaces many other pollutants, such as carbon fibers and concrete and shock, which bind carbon dioxide remarkably fast, and the versatile plant covers the construction industry, food industry, the pharmaceutical industry, and the textile industry, for example. It is now time that the Agency has decided to completely prohibit the import of the hamster seeds, without all grounds for which this function will be removed. News reports that the Agency has decided to take the Polish for all the derivatives of the cannabis plant to be illegal in Iceland, including those that are not useful for causing substance abuse. These are plants that should not really be classified as drug and drug law in the first place. On the one hand, the employment and innovation subsidiary agencies have provided sources for laboratory culture as well as the granting of concentrations to farmers in Götavík for continued testing, while the Office of the Agency has been at the highest level. Healthcare Minister, decided to stop the import of all seeds. I understand that if this case doesn't work out within a month, it's too late to start breeding for the coming summer. I'm asking the highest. Minister if there is a problem with the job and innovation that the Bureau is providing funds for a function considered illegal by the Bureau of Medicinal Products. What's going on with these institutions? And when and how are you planning to do the highest. Healthcare Minister will solve the situation, because I'm going to assume I'm going to the highest level. A minister is interested in solving this position so that these pioneers can continue.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u5	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It's true that last night there was a news story on this subject. This has been discussed for a number of years and has occurred at a number of reporting times, and the Agency has received a number of queries and challenges to what is the legal situation at any time. A senator refers to the inquiry. As a result, industrial modes and CBD positions were considered specifically by the Agency. The results of the EMA are that the regulations of addictive and drug laws with subsequent changes include that plants of this type fall under the regulations of the law, i.e. that, in the event of or the case, the need to change this situation needed to change the law on addiction and drugs. That's at least Conclusion of the Marketing Authorisation Holder. I've also followed up on the discussion in the field of communication with the Directorate-Marine Ministry, and as a result, we've established communication between the two advisers, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Professional Residents, in order to put together a team of workers to look into it. The objective is not fully developed, but it would likely have to be considered for the use of industrial hammers and for the change to be needed, etc., and this would be considered. I guess, and was discussing it with my partner in the government, that we can get the staff together this week. It would likely also require the introduction of the Environment Ministry, in view of the culture involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u6	President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. It is good to hear that this group should be established as soon as possible. At the same time, though, I worry a little bit about the position we have. We have a lot of legal issues and a little bit of dragging our feet into the case, which can make the summer's harvest useless, that the seeds cannot be obtained. The European Medicines Agency has in this matter upheld the legal explanation that the word cannabis is included in a list of substances listed in the Law on Addiction and Drugs, as the Minister says. However, in response to an application to the Agency for the import of the hamster seed in 2013, according to the permission of the president: It seems safe to say that if you are going to transfer seeds for which plants are not suitable, the seeds do not fall under the rules of drug and drug law. At this time, the position of the EMA seems to have changed surprisingly. The CHMP is authorized to give an expanded access and what I would like to ask at the end of this study is whether the highest. Ministers think they can promote it in some way, at least While we're working on this complication, that the Agency can give an exception to these pioneers so they can have seeds and that there'll be some crop in the summer so we're not ruining their good work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] - Excuse me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u7	A respectable president. I have not had time to put myself in the exact circumstances of the individuals referred to here, or put myself in the license team procedure, how it is built up, and how the individual institutions of that topic. It is a food clinic that gives you permission at first, and then this comment is made. I feel that in this matter, like others, the most important thing is to try to handle the whole matter, the principles that need to be applied. I expect that in view of the interests of the people underneath and the questions that have waked up and gone. A senator will need a team like this to have quick hands, and I will do what I can to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u8	A respectable president. I'm very interested in the function of our surveillance agencies. We've heard and seen before in the winter of Aggressive Factors, which are likely to present a large business of organized crime in the form of money pilfering, tax collections, and payoffs. As a result, the district attorney called for additional funding in his activities to increase about six standards that I understand are evaluated in about 90 million. K. every year. V.E.G. For Christmas, a financial minister was a bit criticized not to put into the budget and secure this money just so that we could walk more fully in these studies. The sooner, the better to get this out of the table in either direction. However, it has now been found to be the highest. Secretary of finance has published it up to 200 million. K. I'd like to enter our research team now and I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Where does this money go? The district attorney, formerly a district attorney, is expecting that this funds will return to him to the extent that he requested as a minimal improvement in his activities in order to work professionally and effectively to settle this matter or to be involved in it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u9	A respectable president. This question is raised on a matter that was not addressed at the end of the last year in connection with the payment of budgets, and in the Hall of Congress it gave us a view that should be assured of an increased budget in budgets during 2020 to certain key organizations. We had already made arrangements for the tax investigator and taxpayer, as his name was then, including. by transfer of corrupted sources from previous years. But toward the end of November, a district attorney, who was told shortly before the 3rd district attorney, received a message. Funds that pointed out a great deal of stress for the office. My presentation at the time was that we had a variety of instruments to play in order to cope with pressures at the local institutions. We've had a good discussion on ways, especially in my office with the head of the IRS and the taxpayer, as his name was at the time, and with the district attorney, 50 million has been working on a wire transfer. K. in the current year to face an increase in the number of investigators, and it is assumed that from the next year, the sum will increase further so that we can see on the annual basis around the year. 90 million. K. A lasting increase to the office since then.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u10	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, but I wasn't necessarily going to talk about what we've been doing for Christmas. I have also had a good conversation with the district attorney, which reveals that he has not been able to add one person. He hasn't got a single cent yet. That's what's at the top. A minister says, which I'm very grateful to be cleared up here, is that this year there is a possibility that he can add three levels. For the rest, you have to ask: "The highest level of your life. The financial minister of the matter is not such that we should show it out and out of every place, we, who are now on a gray list, we who are looking at the wide range of places where the Icelanders actually come to shut the door because we are on a gray list? We drew our feet to submit to the laws we had to do in order to show it and prove that we were fighting against any organized financial crime. It's under the roof. In view of the seriousness of the situation and the fact that we are being observed around the world, does the minister of finance really have enough to set the values of three points for the district attorney? The international community is staring at how we are going to respond.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u11	A respectable president. The reason the Icelanders landed on the gray list, not on the black list, but on some sort of observation list, is not that these designated positions were subdiscovered. That's not the main reason. There are a variety of processes and software that have attracted the introduction, but we have them all in the process. Of course, after reviewing how the funds can be used, we are ensuring that the cost is in harmony with their wishes. I call attention to such factors as Money will also benefit those who go to the tax investigator's office because of such cases and will not only be bound to the district attorney's office that receives the suggestions we are working on and have discussed in the government in addition to 90 million. K. Every year, 50 million. K. This year, which goes up to 90 million. K. lasting from next New Year's. Yes, this amount of money may be matters of concern, and it may be nice to conclude that we did not agree on a suggestion. At the end of our last speech, at the end of the last council, a senator who requested 36 billion last time. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u12	...all they...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u13	Mr. President. Over a period of several years, the government agency, the Sedlabanski of Iceland, met a procedure that included offering remuneration in currency markets to meet certain conditions. Here we will discuss the bank's currency tenders, which included those who chose to bring in their currency to Iceland, as it was said, could switch them to Icelandic dollars for a more favorable score than if they were to do so in business banks according to their usual means. Now it's got the highest. The minister answered a request from me, and I thank him for the answer, of the way the surveillance was conducted by the application of the terms of the origin of funds, with reference to the rules of financial management and the fact that investors were real assets. It is revealed in the reply of the highest. Ministers that formally participated in the exports were in the name of a domestic financial company and therefore the court, as it is said, that it was the Secret Bank's database's data board in the business. It is reported that these financial companies were obliged to investigate investors in terms of legal action against the financial resources and the funding of terrorism and to confirm against the Federal Bank. This raises the question, Mr. President, do the Ministers believe that there has been a certain amount of security involved, hiding such a surveillance role in finance? There is no mention of the SEC in this answer. The question, though, is of the highest attitude. Minister to see if there was an adequate performance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u14	A respectable president. I will not say anything about this being enough to eliminate the possibility of it or to learn how to experiment with money nonsense in these efforts, rather than by increasing police, we would believe that we could prevent burglary or theft, shoplifting, something like that. However, there must be rules, and there must be a system, and there must be surveillance. In this reply given to them, yes, it is pointed out that this has been installed in a way that the Secret Bank's data sources were domestic financial companies, they have certain obligations. What we know after the report in Iceland due to our participation in the international work on these topics - I'm here referring to the FAFF publication - is that there were no special weaknesses in the financial institutions that were the basis of gray art. On the other hand, in the national financial department it was observed that some financial projects needed some planning. We have seen this in a recent public discussion of these matters. If people want to tell me if I'm absolutely certain that everything that mattered, I can't say that I'm 100% sure of it. I did not come personally to check on this, but it was to be done by those who participated, and if we have evidence that participation in the invitations was one of those who had illegal money, it is important that those who study such things get information about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u15	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. There's another thing in the answers to the highest. Minister for my inquiry, which I would like to make as a subject. When I ask if a minister would consider to publish the names of the U.S. government's actual depositors in an approved payment and thus enjoy the choice of men, their private agreements will allow me to say, which was offered on the part of Iceland's Secret Bank in the granted currency exchanges, they are answered and referred to by the regulations of confidentiality under the relevant law of the law, and they say that a list of individuals and lawyers, along with a sum that each party moved to the country will fall under a court of confidentiality by the decision of information. I also ask a minister, in view of the fact that it is believed, I quote here in an article in the core since December 26, 2000, that the increase in the investments brought to the owners of the Icelandic currency nearly 49 billion dollars. I'm asking the highest. A minister of his attitude that was thus designed to make it impossible to identify who was enjoying these private expressions and to enjoy the benefits that are considered to be 50 billion dollars. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u16	A respectable president. My attitude that there is a need to be careful about the rules on that subject is that I think it's normal in my own eyes, but I don't think that's right. I think it is unfortunate that this is not better at opening doors, similar to what we would have in general an invitation to the public for public services or products or other items, it would be most fortunate, and then the general rule is that it is public who is involved in an invitation. That in itself is a certain way being held an invitation, yet we must respect the rules of the game that was set out. However, I would like to mention in the context of the fact that in view of the time being done, all those issues must be examined. It sounds funny now when we're sitting on the rights of some 900 billion currency reserves that we've been performing an invitation a few years ago to get a currency into the country. That's the way it was. It's been so long.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u17	Mr. President. I've wished to have a place to speak at the highest. Healthcare minister on the status of the healthcare system. We are in this together, but we cannot overlook the fact that the minister of the seminar is responsible for the situation and has the power to respond. Yes, there has been an increase in contributions to health care, but the facts must be considered. According to the OECD report, a much lower proportion of GDP is introduced to the group than the control countries, and this did not change 2018 and 2019. The government has explained this dramatic difference between the nation's young age, with the growth of domestic production and the addition of more dollars in the category, but no mention of more than 20% in the uncircumcised failure, the 2015 medical contracts also unassailed; no mention of a small and scattered nation, and a high salary in a country that is between 70 and 80% of the medical expenses. This, Mr. President, must be taken into account. I want to pray to the highest. Ministers to listen to the voices of those who run the nursing homes, who say they have to send the weakest people to Land Hospitals for savings; hear the voices of the head of the health departments out of the country that need to, if the government doesn't respond, shut down services, and even shut down operating rooms, and send out the weakest people at the National Hospital. Finally, the situation is watched at the emergency room and other departments of Land Hospitals, answering the question, Is that enough? Does not the health - care system need to be recognized and dealt with more seriously?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. The candidate of the inquiry agrees with what it says on the matter that we are in this together. To discuss health issues, you need to keep in mind and first of all the importance of being on course to the seminary. Happily, there is a policy adopted at the General Assembly last June, and the policy received the support of the Congress of Porta and the Group of Congress, members of Congress, who believed that health issues were a class that would not be particularly useful in the pits but that it would be better for them to hold a long - term stand. Because of what? A senator then mentions numbers and increases the contribution to health care, so in my time at the Ministry of Health, this category has been increased by about 34 billion. But the point is true. According to figures from 2017, in the latest OECD figures in the latest report from 2019, where a ratio of GDP is observed. However, when you look at the amount of contribution you make to each individual population, we are there, for example. with more than what Finns put into their system, so there are various ways to look at this. I agree, however, that this system needs to be financed and it takes a long time to get us out of the cut-down period, which, unfortunately, was not just after a crash but also in its leading.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u19	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the answer. It's good to have a policy, but we don't run a health system with subsidies, unfortunately. Following a collapse, as previously observed, the health system was cut down by about 20%. There are many billions of people in the medical system, that's right. But we need to see the starting point and where the site is, what the task site is today. We do not run health systems on ancient fame. Since the turn of the century, the population has increased by 25% and over in number to 60% at the same time. The actual increase in land hospital contribution between 2019 and 2020 is 1.7%, in spite of this story I gave in my previous talk, that the projects of the country, and the projects in nursing homes, are piling into the Lands Hospital because these places are scarce. Could be at the top. Health Ministers need to lower their feet to their friends in the Independence Party, who primarily want to give personal attention to the health system and to take the initiative who is in charge of the current health care department and who is on the side of people, both users of the health system and staff? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u20	A respectable president. Because we're here talking about numbers, and that we're not living on the course alone, which is right, we're reflecting an increase in the money of policy too. During my time at the Ministry of Health, the increase in health care in the capital area has been 24% on solid prices. This is to strengthen and strengthen health care as the first stop in the medical system, and we are, of course, also contributing to the environment of Hospitals. Hv. A senator encouraged me to take action at the emergency department. It was started on Friday, and he started his work this morning. He is put together by specialists, both from the Ministry and from the Land Hospital, and he is aimed at solving the ongoing problem that has repeatedly come up to the emergency room.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u21	Mr. President. During the past few weeks, no one has missed the big problem facing the land hospital. It must be surprising to a government that, according to their own claims, has put health matters first in this election period that we are in the middle of the term to deal with the situation of the Lands Hospital as urgent as it really is. But it may not be surprising when you look into it. It has been said for years that the largest problem in the Land Hospital is the so - called aerodynamic problem and that together with the rapid aging of the nation, as noted in the previous unprepared inquiry, would have to be a real joke about the building of new nurses just to make the Land Hospital easier. This was what the government said was going to do in its policy declaration. But where are they? Where are they? Where are they? Where are they? A health minister? It will not be seen according to the Health Ministry strategy published in the last fall that there are no new areas of nursing so that it can be thought to have been initiated in the history of this government. However, it is reasonable to assume that at least 100 new spaces a year. To keep these numbers in perspective: The use of nursing sites during the past decade is about 90 spaces into that brain, not every year, but into that brain. And still no plans. V.E.G. A minister announced a campaign in the capital area of 200 new space, but according to the latest Health Ministry strategy, there has not even been room available to them, let alone prepare or implement such space. unchanged, the flow problem of the Land Hospital will only continue to increase beyond this ideal period, unless something has to be done. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister: What will a minister do?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u22	A respectable president. That is correct. One of the biggest and most important challenges, not only to the health system, but also to the civil and community business, is to ensure adequate service for more and more elderly people. As indicated in the case and the question of why. A senator was introduced here as I took over at the Ministry of Health for considerable structure, and now at the end of the next month, 99 spaces will be opened on Plain Road. But because of him. A senator has stuck to the fact that little or nothing has happened in my time, and we are more opening something that someone else has started with, both of us are talking about new projects in Húsavík, Cape, and in Aargour, a shovel has been taken up in Aarbourg. I think it's very important when we are talking about this service to look more at a more flexible approach for the elderly, i.e. A flexible day's stay and a home nurse. Because of our domestic care, we Icelanders have not only been drawn back but, in fact, never have we returned anything to home nursing compared to the countries around us. In fact, when we compare contributions to health care between Iceland and Sweden, we are likely to contribute to health care, but we may contribute another eighth if we are talking about household care. For this reason, I have also emphasized that we do not solve all of this by building more room, although the plan will be carried out and carried out, we also need to improve significantly in our home care, day - to - day decisions, and I don't talk about the health of the elderly who are also important.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u23	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of Ministers answered, but in me there is not much calmer in itself. It is true that there are a variety of resources and that is exactly what needs to be added to our homework, but it has also been very heavy during the past decade or so on the simple fact that the medical room has not been built in this period. The preparation and construction of Plains began almost three years ago. The fact is, it is now a two - year - old hole in new projects here on the southwest corner and does not provide the end of it. The first bid for the southwestern corner to be planned for the government's administration is next year. It will take more than two years for such space to open up. Thus, it is seen that any new space will open up to this government during the entire election period. It's all the emphasis. It's the whole priority for this great weakness that's causing such a big problem at the Land Hospital. This is disappointing. That's what worries me. I'm asking, is the health system being controlled?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u24	A respectable president. I don't like being impatient. A senator because I share that impatience, and I think that we would all be calmers if they could start preparing nurses, building them, and opening them in the same year, staying in the same quarter of the year. I'd love to see it. However, the subjects are far more urgent than we can focus on the design of nurses, and that's why we have been looking at the possibility of making additional contracts with those already involved, adding flexible day - to - day decisions that we are doing, hopefully both in Reykjavík and in many parts of the country, adding considerably to domestic care and other services, so this is really all beneath us. Also important is the opening of the medical hotel, and this was discussed in the field physician's indications a year ago when it was discussed about the graduation problems of the Lands Hospital. There are a number of measures that have been taken to relieve this problem, and part of it is increased cooperation with the health care facilities that have also been developed. [[The president calls.]] So, yes, this medical system is being controlled.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u25	A respectable president. I'm here to ask about the arrangements for hairy research. Environmental protection, monitoring of crops, and marine research are the basis for sustainable marine valuables. In particular, studies on the hairy stem are important, since the behavior of a hairy person is not always predictable, and we know various aspects of its life course much worse than we would like. If it turns out that there will be a relapse in the second consecutive year, it will have an extensive effect in Icelandic society. There are direct effects on the up-to-date companies as well as on the number of companies around the country as their services, including We're in countries, we're moving, we're moving, we're using technology, we're doing a lot of other stuff. Besides that, people and homes lose important income, businesses, and government funds. The community where the effects are most distant, while weapons wars, Langanes, Hornhur, and Western islands also have great interests. In 2018, less than half of the hairy forces were received in the Far East, and the town authorities'evaluations are that the direct loss of the community is due to hairy failure in 2019 is 280 million. K. The second year of loss can have far more dramatic consequences than a year's loss. To the other fluctuations, it'll make them smaller. Naturally, then, many people ask about priorities and arrangements for hairy research and framing. Among other things, at the beginning of a month, the town council of the Far East expressed a lot of concern over the situation of hairy shopping in Iceland, and I ask: "How has a hairy search been made for what's left of winter? What are the advantages and weaknesses of cooperation with the Cradle and the fishing companies for search and research? Have any additional studies been conducted on the hairy powder this year beyond traditional levels? Is there any news of today's fur seek for winter or for the next year?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is the right thing to say in her case. It is an enormous task. Lofty stock is extremely important for all the life in Iceland, as well as for the survival of a number of people and businesses, and as a result, society all. It is true that the senator's case regarding the most relevant rural areas, these so - called expansive organizations, and in addition to this, the sufferers will be affected by other lobsters as well as by a recession in sea oedema fishing. Many of these communities are experiencing massive transfusions of blood. It is clear that the government in the period of this government has preconceived funds for hairy research. I would like to mention, for example, that the search for fur has never been so extensive and extensive as it was during the past season. It was exemplary in her manner of living, and there was good cooperation between the Oceanographic Institute and the Corporation. Despite the fact that the search for this fish stock had never been the same, research did not give a basis for restarting hairy fishing, unfortunately. The work together has been very successful, and in view of the way this was done, I preached to these members, to the Oceanographic Institutes, and to the development, to a meeting in September to prepare the search for the winter. It worked out and it's started. The phonies began last week, and within them four ships are involved, as well as the Árni of Friðrik's Friðriksson. The weather may be a major factor, but not so that we may not be able to find the hairy, but it will not be a combination in our search. [[The president calls.]] I'll tell you what. A senator better informed about future developments.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u27	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. As noted in the case of a minister, it is important to focus on studies of the fur and priorities and to pursue widespread framing, as was the last year. Whether this allows us to spend more years or not, our knowledge will increase for the future. As I traced the previous year, Hysterism has had a lot of effect. I came in for 280 million. K. missing from the Far East Side box, which really was 10 billion dollars short. in the export income of the community. The effect on the income of the state funds was estimated to be 46.5 billion last year. Although new employment projects, such as tourism and fish farming, are still essential that basic work projects continue to produce income. I look forward to hearing more answers to the questions from earlier, but in view of the situation, I ask: Will Ministers take the initiative to discuss the government's position? [[The president calls.]] Is there any reason to react, e.g. ... withtheenlightenmentof innovation and research?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u28	A respectable president. I still thank you for the emphasis. A senator places on the survival of the most relevant community. I called attention to this and began a discussion in the government at the time of the Flame crisis, but we've taken no direct action. For the extension of this study, I just want to say that in the remaining study programme, it is assumed that a previous study will be completed in January, hopefully not later than January 24, provided that weather windows will be slightly longer and more than ever before, and then the second measure will be taken in February. It has to do with communities in many places, yes, it is true. Just before I came into the house, I found Japanese segregators and buyers to the hairy and hairy yurt. If, as indicated by some evidence, it is not necessarily hard to face again, unfortunately, nothing is going well in it, and it is quite clear that this has an enormous impact, not just on the job or the survival of people in Japan, but also on our prospects for future prospects at the market that has been of this industry and these aspects of the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u29	During a talk period, the president was very tolerant. A minister in hopes that he would promote the discovery of a hairy stick, but that did not happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u30	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to correct a law on the affairs of immigrants. They went into effect on November 28, 2012, but their goal is to promote a community where all can be active participants regardless of nationality. This aim is achieved by integrating the interests of immigrants across all policies, administration and public services, promoting wide cooperation, promoting education and sharing of information, and supporting the research and development projects on the affairs of immigrants. The bill suggests two changes in the law, one of the changes to the role of a multicultural site that has to do with the concerted welcome of refugees and the change in the commission to the embargo council. In recent years, there have been significant changes in the number of individuals who come to the country on their own and who receive international protection or leave by humanitarian grounds. In 2019 over 450 individuals, who came here on their own protection in Iceland, were protected by some 230 individuals in 2018. To date, it has been not a formal welcome system for refugees who come to the country on their own but only for refugees who come here on government command in cooperation with the United Nations Refugee Organization. The explanation is that until recently, there was a relatively small group. In accordance with the government's treaties and the implementation of a government plan on the affairs of immigrants, refugees have been made a concerted welcome, whether or not they come on their own roads or on government commands. A report on the concerted reception of refugees was published in January 2019, which suggested a consistent welcome system for refugees and individuals who have been granted leave on welfare grounds. This bill's presentation is part of it. The proposals of the Committee can be divided into three main services, first of all, that the Department of Social Affairs negotiates with reception groups for increased assistance and services to refugees, including those involved. in order to appoint a speech manager who is responsible for ensuring a partnership in a service based on an individualised programme, secondly, that the employment agency receives additional roles and services for community education and Icelandic education for refugees, provide educational and professional advice as well as help with job search and other activities. Third, a multicultural site is given added roles that involve linking refugees and welcome groups who have made a deal with the Ministry of Social Affairs. This bill contains a far more comprehensive role for the concerted welcome of refugees, in line with the proposal of the Commission for the concerted welcome of refugees. A multicultural site is assigned to give professional advice to local communities regarding the acceptance of refugees and the education of professionals. The new role of the Agency is to keep in mind the invitation of hosting and services, based on the available information and on specific aspects, such as the possibility of education, access to necessary health services, employment opportunities and transportation. Thus, a multicultural site must have access to needed information, on the other hand, about the receptional groups, and on the other hand, information from refugees itself, and information from a foreign agency as appropriate. It is important that the authority of the Multi-Creation Centre on Information and Media is clearly stated so that the Agency can perform this new role. Examples of such information are basic information about individuals with education, family interests, previous employment and future expectations as well as health information. The bill also suggests a change in Article 4. The law is about immigrants'Council. As a result of the intervention of the Ministry of Health at the end of 2018 at the Department of Health and the Department of Social Affairs, no longer has a representative from the Ministry of Health at the council. Since the role of the Council is to promote coordination and coordination between recruitment, rural society and the management board, it is important that the representative of the health minister be in the council, and it is recommended that the health minister be appointed by the council. The bill was presented by government consultations and received two reviews. The comments observed were taken into account when considering what could be done and the changes made to the bill in question. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u31	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for the fact that this bill has been released. Though it's not too long or much, I think it's important. However, I wanted to ask the highest question. Minister only in the personal information discussed in the bill that needs to be transferred between the strains. I can't quickly see on the bill that there was special consultation with the Persian Protection of the Convention of the bill. Perhaps a minister doesn't think it is necessary, perhaps not to be needed, but I felt that it was important to be revealed because the nature of the case according to it is often involved individuals who come here for sensitive reasons, and that may be information about them, and in some cases, it doesn't take more than the name so that it is beginning to go closer to their interests but could be expected if they were not fleeing the circumstances that some of them are fleeing. Then, information that others consider to be less sensitive in the everyday life, such as the name and address or anything, can become more sensitive. That was the first question I wanted to make. Minister to go. The second is whether this bill is in any way a result of UN approval of passengers who, however, caused quite a stir during the day, due to the misunderstanding of the critics who were most concerned about the good news. I can't find a discussion about it in the bill, so I don't expect it to be, but I can honestly say that, in my opinion, the bill seems to be in harmony with the good plan, at least not contradicting it. I wanted to go to the highest. Ministers according to whether this consent has brought about any of the preparations for this matter and if not only during the last second if it was accepted for a discussion in the Ministry in connection with the preparation of other cases or in the general case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u32	A respectable president. Thank you for these inquiries. The first question was to see if there had been a Persian protection during the processing of the bill. It wasn't formally done. On the other hand, this bill was worked and met several times with the Council's personal guardianship, let's say, the person taking it on behalf of the government and the Board of Directors, working with him on the factors of personal information. I would also like to point out that a paper with the bill on page 20. 3 This is absolutely clear, and I'm going to read it, with the permission of a president: It's suggested to process information according to Article 3. b subject to the requirements that the applicant has, before the process, confirmed that he or she has been informed about the planned implementation of information in the relevant case, such as signing the declaration of the material. So they thought it might be okay. But, as I say, this was worked by the Board of Directors of State. Regarding the second question, if it has anything to do with the passengers. No, it's not in a direct way. On the other hand, it may be somewhat similar, but this bill is primarily involved, as explained in a talk, by the government's decision and by a government contract to begin a concerted welcome for refugees regardless of whether it comes here as trustmakers or in other ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u33	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and believe they're adequate. In terms of the personal protection issues, I would think that it should be enough to take that path to the highest level. Ministers have gone to speak with the Board's personal guardianship and should be sufficient to ensure that the law takes sufficient account of the personal protection laws, following the GDPR legislation that we agreed on during the days. The other is that the case will probably go to the General and Education Committee if I recall correctly -- no, I guess not going there. All right, but I strongly assume that there will be a review from Peritoneal protection that will be able to express its opinion if something goes better. I'll take the top answer. Ministers only in good standing, and they will not be involved at this time. As for the United Nations approval of passengers, I intend to give more attention to this in the following talk, which was adopted to try to create a better organization in view that in recent years, it has been called a crisis for passengers or refugees and refugees, especially for events in Syria but also more, conditions that will get worse and will be more serious in the future because of climate change. As far as I know, there will be more of such problems in the future in the decades ahead. So it is important that we deal with that fact rather than try to put our heads in the sand and pretend that Iceland can somehow escape that problem. It's not like that. We need to deal with this. That approval is more than perhaps this bill, but it is consistent with the fact that governments are acting on their own initiative according to the good United Nations approved by the United Nations, which is why I come to support this issue. I have no further questions to the highest level. Minister at the end of that. But I always rejoice when governments are trying to greet refugees, since we need to receive them whether we like them or not. [[The president calls.]] The question is, Should I do it well or not? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u34	A respectable president. I agree with what. A member of the Federal Protection Agency, I'm sure it's a request for a U.S. Federal Protection Agency, but I also believe that it should be enough that the case was cooperated with the Directorates of Human Protection, but there's nothing wrong with it if the Committee requests a U.S. Federal Protection. Regarding the later years, I just look forward to hearing a talk. A senator following this and reiterates that Iceland is taking in more quotas. We're increasing it, and compared to making the other North countries, we're on a pair, or we're better, or we're comparable, if the numbers are checked from an oscillary number. But I look forward to hearing a talk. A senator will follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u35	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for bringing up this case. I think it's a perfect example because we have to conform to the way we treat people who run away regardless of how they get to the country. I just wanted to ask if the job had never been considered to be part of this case to bring up some service of the Multihuman Parks to those who have not yet received the status of a fugitive or who are candidates for international protection; whether that group should still be out in the cold when it comes to humanitarian treatment. There is one factor that I have particularly in mind here and he has to deal with temporary work permit for those waiting. Because employment permits and employment agencies are at the top of the topic area. A minister asks if, in the opinion of a minister, there is any possibility that the labour agency will speed up the application for temporary work permit in the case of a person awaiting a decision. More often than not, individuals have had to raise a lot of money to apply for temporary work permit, money that they do not have. And after six months and the temporary license has not yet been completed, the employer has long hired someone else for the job, not for a very special job in which there is a relatively unknown person. I just want to hear if those who are waiting, candidates for international protection, can possibly get some hearing in there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u36	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the input. Regarding the first few years, whether those who have not received a position in the country may be assigned to a multicultural service: Of course, they can search there, but this united convention is subject to what takes place after the person has been served. Then, custody of the case actually comes from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Social Affairs. In the foundation is what happens to the decision we were working on with a consistent reception. No, it did not formally decide whether to change something, it has been quite clear. We at the Department of Social Affairs see it, and I think it's our job to take over after a decision has been made. Of course, like others, individuals can go to a multicultural site. For temporary employment permits, it is not formally considered in the Ministry or at the Labour Department to make adjustments. On the other hand, there is work to be done, and of course there is something to be considered. I trust it depends on the current work, or is about to start, by the Minister of Justice, to which the Ministry of Social Affairs is involved, as well as on a representative of the political party, and I have understood it so. It involves the position of immigrants in a larger context. But we have no independent work at the Ministry, so that the answer is clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u37	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the previous answer. I feel that it is the will of the Ministry to do well with this group, and I am so delighted. Perhaps that's why I deliver the form of a petition here in a pita, especially because of chapter 6 of the report that speaks of this uniform welcome system being done to provide refugees with equal service regardless of how it comes to the country and the necessary assistance needed to process the events, while making sure that they will soon be able to get an active share in the community, whether in a labour market, education, or other fields. V.E.G. The minister gave a clear answer to the question that this is just a discussion of those who have received the status of a fugitive in Iceland. I'll figure it out. However, I'm going to allow myself to come here for the offer. I believe that by welcoming the people who are seeking protection here with respect, fairness, and equality, regardless of what happens to them, we will potentially reduce the lasting damage that is evident to those who are fleeing. That's why I address the challenge to the highest level. Social Affairs Ministers to do all he can, in all this work at the Department of Social Affairs, where the labour markets include, but no less within the government, and speak the case of those waiting here months and even years after protection; that they will be involved in the community, may receive visitors, etc. This is important.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u38	A respectable president. I just want to say again that this is not a formal tour of the Ministry, as I told you earlier. Although there is a warrant for granting temporary work permit, there are certain conditions that the individual must meet in order to obtain temporary work permit. This is not a formal view, but I'm sure it's a good idea to see if there's any reason to do so. We'll take these tips from the wind. A senator with us into the Ministry, but as I say, we have looked to the current job and are led by the Ministry of Justice. Social Services is in there, including Because of the job cover and the concerted reception. We've been looking at that job, so I'm honest about it, but it's probably a matter of taking an opinion on the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u39	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. Before I come to what I wanted to ask the highest. Minister out there, I'd like to mention only the coders. Iceland has hosted so - called hostilities, refugees who are the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees, who have requested that the nations respond to the war conditions in their homeland. Me and the Icelanders have done it well, and I support it, of course, that we'll be welcoming codemen. If we look only at the ministry that is available to those in need of a greeting, they will be included. to provide financial and housing support, health care, access to the school system, interpreter services and job search support. They are also required to attend a course in Icelandic, take an active part in job search, and interview with a psychologist to review the experience of living in the country and the adjustment to the reception country. Then, after five years of living here, claimors can get an Icelandic citizen's right to live here. The presence of a financial committee follows the budget of this group at a time. If I recall, I think the government has decided to raise the number that will be received this year, that will be 85 individuals. Now the article with the bill on page 24 says. 4, on impact assessments: ◯ By a consistent welcome system, you are working to provide refugees with equal services regardless of how they get to the country...◯. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: Is it true that those who come here to the country to get a permit get exactly the same service as the codekeepers?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u40	I thank the senator for this inquiry. The thought of a concerted reception is to reconcile it. We're here to greet a host of people, and then they're coming to people who are granted leave on humanitarian grounds, et cetera. The changes being made with a uniform welcome are that all who come in here as refugees take a similar approach. The concept behind the bill is that the Multicultural site is there to connect and prepare the rural communities, connect the respective individuals to their rural communities to make sure that everyone gets the same service, so the answer is yes. The idea of a bill is to ensure what it says, consistent with the reception of refugees.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u41	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. It's clear that there's really no difference between vagrants and people who come here to the country and want international protection and then get a permit. Then I'd like to ask the highest. A minister in this regard: Is it not clear, then, that financial rights must be adhered to? This year, I think there were about 84 people from Venezuela who were given a living permit here, which is the same number as the greeting fighters this year. These are expected financial expenditures, and it is clear that they need earmarking on the budget bill. In this regard, I think it's pretty clear that people will be careful. In this regard, perhaps it would be appropriate to ask a minister if it could not be a bit of a concern now, if we take Venezuela as an example, or if anyone has been approved or obtained a permit from there. I'm not minimizing the situation in Venezuela, really. But is there not the danger that if this system becomes this way, there will be a significant increase in the number of refugees who come to the country in such a way, such as from Venezuela? Don't you think it's necessary to comply?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u42	A respectable president. With a uniform reception, as I told you earlier, a multi-cultural site is designed to link rural areas to refugees who want to enter a consistent reception. The word "divide" is very important in this regard because people can have a choice whether they want to enter it when they come into it, not as a greeting, but in other ways, as are those who come from Venezuela who have been allowed to stay here. They can choose whether to attend a consistent reception, so it is optional, so they can arrange for it. Regarding the concerted receptions and the plans we're working on, funding a financial programme, in the budget of the current year, is expected to begin the concerted welcome of refugees. So we expect these funds and expect to be able to take both the greeting workers and those who come in other ways. So the answer to whether this is funded is: Yes, it's funded, we're working within the frameworks and the estimates they agreed to take on this project, so that it is completely clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u43	A respectable president. We are here again discussing foreign affairs, an important group of subjects that often goes into some form of haemoptysis, and they are often very much misunderstandings in the general discussion. There are great misunderstandings about the affairs of foreigners in general, about the legal environment, about the right of people, and about government policy, both of this government and of others. In such an environment, it is a bit difficult to try to reach a common conclusion with any of the two who have a different vision, even if that vision is basically the same or at least similar to that of individuals if they understood all the facts in the same way, and if there were not for the various discrepancies that would pact the general class. This bill is a good example of positive efforts that I think everyone should agree, no matter where they are involved in foreign affairs in themselves, except for some special application procedure or so as to be like or worried that costs are not expected when it comes to costing. I believe that whether you feel that you are too much of a fugitive or a stranger or if you feel too little of it or what. This is the same characteristic that I see on another United Nations document that approved the United Nations organization for passengers, which was a great discussion during the days, and this misunderstanding was presented that I spoke of very clearly and extremely loudly. But the statements that were allowed to wander about the good paper were, in fact, best to say absolutely out of the cow. I was convinced in the discussion repeatedly and in a way that in some way it would oblige Iceland, if it were legal binding, to eliminate freedom of expression and to take up the sharia laws and a number of things from the crazier. Of course, no such thing is found in the document itself. Rather, it must have had to be either determined will to misunderstand the torture or some uncontrollable fear in order to reach the ludicrous conclusion I was here describing. On the contrary, it was a document that was as good as any nation of the world, more or less, agreed with individual exceptions. Perhaps it is primarily to name the United States under it - I beg pardoned, a respectable president, I just don't know how to say it differently - a high leadership there is. The loud voices of foreigners and, in particular, refugees made the leaders of various nations question those who were then used by the same leaders as a reason to reject them. All very amazing presentation, a respectable president, if not for this above - mentioned misunderstanding that appears to be deliberate. There's one thing we need to realize when it comes to passengers, kooks, trustees, people who for some reason come from abroad, and that even if we could just do it in the prince's hand, we could put up some huge wall with the Donald Trump dream of and just shut up the country, and make sure no one comes here, it wouldn't save money. That wouldn't increase Iceland's road. That's what I think everybody agrees with. However, there are extremely many people who are concerned about the so - called flood. There are concerns that can be attributed to any conversation about foreigners from all times, I think, and probably from all places more or less, with exceptional exceptions. When the EEA contract was adopted here, e.g. Some are very concerned that there would be a flood of Italians here, that in one day, millions of Italians would decide to go to Iceland, the country called after the ice. People in Italy would dream of coming here for reasons that, knowing me, were not explained then and have not yet been explained. It is with human beings, in general, but nothing at all, and the person standing here can truly prove that they generally want to be at home, they generally want to live in a country where their language is spoken, where they understand society, where community values go against their own values, where they can walk as a truth they know in general. But then we do not live in a more perfect world than the fact that people will not enjoy life and conditions at the same time. Such examples include, for example, The civil war in Syria I haven't heard an Arab, my friends, that's a wonderful weather trip in Iceland so far. I haven't heard refugees say they dreamt of coming here before they had to come here. I don't know exactly where people get the idea that just by allowing people to move from abroad, everyone suddenly flew into the head to move abroad. It's not like that, Mr. Honorable President. It takes courage and determination, determination of spiritual strength, and financial strength to move from one country to another, even for people who are just fine. It's hard, it takes time. It's difficult to settle into a new community, even a closely related community. An Icelander moving to Canada, an Icelander who moves to Canada, will still have some real trouble where he will hopefully get through with the help of friends and relatives. But I think most Icelanders today think they can move to Canada almost by snapping a finger. But most do not. Why? Because they want to stay at home. They want to be with their family, with the people they love. People just want to be in their own society. That's what it's like in general. Now we face unprecedented challenges to climate change. That, in principle, is beyond question as far as I can see. In Iceland, doubts seem mainly to concern the fact that this route is not a suitable one but someone else, rather than the fact that people are standing here in a torturete and protesting directly that human climate change is becoming a source of confusion if it is not very soon and actually immediately to be done. This will follow the migration; these will follow the passengers, the kooks, and those who take refuge, from different nationalities, from different places, and for various reasons. It will not simply be so hot that it cannot be there - in some places it will be, and it is, in effect, such disasters and natural tears tend to produce even more human conflicts that may have existed before. The civil war in Syria illustrates this, but the year before the outbreak of civil war, in the late spring of Arabic, was the greatest drought that has ever existed, a direct result of climate change. We must know for sure at this point. It causes hunger that is generally not good for peace. In general, it is not good for peace to deprive people of their livelihood or make it difficult for them to survive. This means conflict and conflict, with a very rich tendency to create large groups of passengers, kooks, and inmates. This is something that we can totally assume will continue to be the theme of the next few decades, even if we will act quickly against climate change and will do all we can to prevent the calamities that would otherwise be done. In that light, we do not flirt with ideas that we can build a wall. Actually, we have a wall, and it's called the Atlantic, and it works well to prevent people from coming here on their feet, as people must see. But people will come here. It will go out all over the planet, it will try to find a place because it needs and wants to live - for that simple reason, not because everyone has the dream of coming to some country that lets it in. Then we need to be realistic. This has its own problem. They can be cultural. There may be cultural differences that have to be dealt with in some way if a person is, for example, a person. In principle, with a different understanding of how righteousness works. Let's say, like a view of sex, gender, or religion, or anything, all of these are real problems that we have to contend with, but we don't do that by pretending to build the wall. It's not going to be fixed with the wall. People will come here and we'll have to deal with it. There is no way to do that at the same time and always to be complaining and complaining about the cost of money. It's gonna cost money. The only way to save money in this category is to have no wall and let everyone in. I don't hear anyone suggesting it against what is sometimes said here in the discussion. I don't hear anyone here at the council suggesting it. I'm not suggesting it. But that is the way to save money if that is the primary objective. Let us forget that we are about to save some money in this category. It's not like that. The question is, How do we put the funds to the best use of the people we need and will accept so that they can have the best share in our good society; we will have the best use of their character and success here? That's the question, Mr. Honorable President. Another problem that can accompany passengers is if the amount is simply large in a short period of time that certain structures are too high. We know this from the traveling service in Iceland when so many people come to the country that they face pressures, health care, or law enforcement, as well as the like. It's not critical of tourism or tourists, it's just an inevitable codfish that suddenly a large crowd of people arrive at the same time. We are not looking at it when it comes to the pleasure of the trustees or the armaholics. We're looking ahead for budgets, certainly and natural and inevitable, but this is not the case with millions of Italians following the EU Convention's approved contract. It's not that following UN approval of passengers, millions of people will be here or the freedom of expression will be taken away and the sharia law will be taken up. It's not that by accepting reasonable bills like this, which I think is in full agreement with the supplied, we're opening up to some kind of puzzle. It is simply not that way, a respectable president, and we should not view it that way. But I'd like to say that if people are extremely concerned that there are suddenly millions in one day or whatever - and by the time I remember, there are 500 million people allowed to do it today, there are people from Europe. All Italians are allowed to move to Iceland today. Today, all Germans, Finns, Irish, Spanish and Portugal would be able to take their bag and move to Iceland according to local law. This did not happen, as we know, perhaps the anxiety is unnecessary. However, if people are extremely worried about this, then they will make a number of demands. What? 200 a year? Five hundred a year? I don't know, but it doesn't have to be extreme limitations in order to be quite different from what we expect today from how many people come here to begin with. The concern about the Flood is unnecessary. If they were real, cool, we should deal with them worry by some reasonable means. When the discussion is based on baloney and facts, and sometimes some very serious problems, it is difficult to have that conversation. I can totally agree that I don't want 10 million people all of a sudden to Iceland in one day. I don't think that would make sense for the interior of the country. I'd like to scatter it for a long time or something like that. That is quite the opposite of what is sometimes said. It may be a foreign matter, but it should not be based on the myths that some people have of building walls, to make sure that people do not come here. It's not Iceland's main problem today and it's not predictable. What's predictable is that we don't welcome people well enough, so we don't help them get into the same together, so they're doing well here. If the passengers are doing well here, Iceland will do well with the passengers. It's going completely in both directions. During the two minutes I have left, one and a half, I would like to mention one thing that I often sense in the discussion. There is talk of the cost of serving as a greeting, of paying teachers to look after their children in nurserys or day - to - day parents, or of wasting money by teaching people to read or waste money by paying them to help with jobs. This is not a waste, a respectable president, but we are careful not to tear down opportunities. It takes money to make the most of it. It's investments. This is Iceland for the well-being and interests of passengers here in Iceland, and this is in no way worthy of Icelandic interests, whether we're discussing the state funds or the public in the country. To say that, I support this bill, premonition that we are here in 1st. and may be able to give some suggestions in the treatment of the council. Thank you very much. Minister for bringing it forward and effort to the general lawsuit. I am not so convinced that we will reach all the goals we have set for ourselves. I think we need to spit on our hands, and I think it's very important because the problem isn't going anywhere. The issues of refugees and refugees in particular will remain large. Then it's important that we get to the seminary out of reality, not stick our heads in the sand, but talk about things the way they are. It's the national interests of the Icelandic government that people come here and they're doing well here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u44	A respectable president. We're here for a bill to correct the move on the immigrants'case, with subsequent changes, i.e. The role of refugees and emigrants to attend. For various reasons, this bill may be considered a little later. It is referred to as two Parliamentary decrees dealt with in 149 of Congress. It is, on the one hand, our body of Congress proposal in the United States, which is presented at this council another time, did not progress in the first, in the shape of a policy that promotes people of foreign origin to share in the community. The other was a proposal for a hearing about the establishment of the immigrant counseling agency. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé was a 1st transporter. It was a government proposal, and it was established and accepted as an order by the Generals. Both are excellent suggestions, and hopefully they extend to the proposal that did not progress in 149, and they agree that they deal with the issues of the group discussed here in general, from the point of presentation, instruction and presentation of land and nation, and from learning in all its ways, education, employment, and well - being. A respectable president. During recent discussions, there has been a significant need to improve the situation of immigrants. This is true not only of the general social setting but also of the civilisation of immigrants, the Foreign Institute for Foreign Affairs, the Multicultural Institute, the government's maintenance and trust in the adaptation of immigrants to the community, but also of the immigrant Development Fund. All of this is motivated by the effort to care more for the needs of this important and growing group of subjects. In the mid - 2001's, a multicultural service took place, and the role was then established into law on the affairs of immigrants in 2012. A multicultural site is to provide for the relations of people of different backgrounds and to promote the services of immigrants who live here and are moving to the country. This agency has provided government, organisations and companies, partners and individuals with advice and information regarding the task of welcoming and covering the interests of immigrants. Multicultural centres also impart information to immigrants on their rights and responsibilities, monitoring the development of immigrants in society, including with information and research, analyses and information sharing and their results and they are readily available. It has been a fine job, but we need to do it even more, and it is now being done with this excellent bill. A multicultural site has been able to look for information on many aspects of daily life in Iceland, those who are coming to the country, about the administration and for assistance on transport and transport from Iceland. However, this currently existing bill involves some adjustments. A multicultural site is designed for more extensive roles, and it is so important that it is considered to be legalized. It must be done to coordinate the presence of refugees further, and that is why men want to promote the Agency so that they can handle this project. It is not a secret that a multicultural site has enjoyed a very narrow advantage over the past few years, proving that history is a matter of whether the Agency survives or dies. As we know, although most people apply for international protection, the Agency is located in Iceland, which is a good solution. dwells in the capital area or in the Southnes. We have many more immigrants, and they are scattered throughout the country, although it is obvious that most of us live on the southwest corner. As mentioned earlier, new assignments are considered to be valid. This ensures that the Agency is assured to cooperate with personal information and provide it with what the laws of personal protection and the processing of personal information indicate. This is essential for profit for immigrants themselves. Of course, for a multicultural site to cope with this increased role, it is necessary to add human life and to strengthen the foundation for the Agency. It's my opinion that it has to happen both in Iceland and in the capital area. I'm incredibly positive at the highest. A minister takes the Polish on the hill to promote a multicultural facility and uses it to gain experience and knowledge, the wealth that resides in that facility, to further the work at a national level. It is clear that somewhere in the capital area there is a work station to be established so that the Agency can fulfill its role as best, for representatives in the United States will have to meet up face - to - face with refugees. It's in nature. It doesn't have to be explained here and now. Their issues need to be addressed in consultation with the relevant, to choose the reception of local members, etc. There are countless factors that are important, sensitive, and must be done with accuracy and skill. There is no denying that countless other activities in dealing with immigrants can be done electronically, by telecommunications, by e - mail transmissions, and by searching the site, since a multicultural site provides excellent information on its website. The report on the bill shows that there is an expected increase in the Agency, a multi-cultural centre, of two long-term status values, and some of the costs for employees in Reykjavík. I think this is a careful estimate because the scope of this service will arise by increasing and as noted by the circumstances. A senator and a speaker earlier, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, are extremely important for us to be careful. It will have a direct result of success for the community and immigrants, the newcomers who choose Iceland or where Iceland will share their lot in longer or shorter living areas. A respectable president. This bill, which aims to synchronize and improve the attitude that awaits immigrants in Iceland, for whatever reason they move here, is for the good. I will allow me to hope that there will be a reality in this council. We are dealing with matters that involve much of the people living in this land or nearly 50,000 people. The number of immigrants is about 50,000 or over 14% of the population in the country. It says in the bill text that this law is already valid, and I couldn't understand the highest. Ministers before them so that funding for implementing projects, at least The first strike, be assured already and it is well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u45	A respectable president. I apologize for having someone wait for me, and I expected that men would be more aggressive in this discussion than they were. I want to celebrate this matter. This is vital, good, and satisfying, to see it become a reality. It is good to think that it was then the highest. Social Affairs Minister, Eygló Harðardóttir, who set this issue in place for 2016 of the Action Programme, and then I was allowed to follow it only during my Ministerial period by ordering the staff of the programme to order the harmonization of hostilities and other members of international protection. This is very important, for it causes certain refugees who are being protected internationally when they realize the great difference we have seen in our receptions with the armadavers and refugees we receive by other means. The key point is, of course, that we will ensure that the effective and good adjustment of this person in Icelandic society, the possibility, the help of setting up, finding housing, finding employment, etc. It is crucial when we as a community are changing as much as we really are, and this applies not just to refugees but to the simple fact that Iceland is turning into an immigrant community. More than 15% of the people living here are from foreign berries today, and the percentage is growing rapidly. Without these groups, we could not have managed the growth that has taken place in our economy and that has increased in number. Despite our temporary setbacks now, we have built up our success in the past decade to a large extent in the immigrants. That's a good thing. We see that the community is becoming more diverse and enjoyable, but at the same time we must carry out our duties as a community so that this growing group of people will enjoy living here, having as much opportunity with other people, that the decision to make it a success and a success to be found here. I think this case is a very good and positive step in that direction and rejoices at it. The Minister of Social Affairs is giving a recommendation today, hoping that they will be well established at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u46	V.E.G. President. Here we discuss a number of cases related to one of the world's largest issues of modern times, which are a growing number of refugees. Sad to say, this case seems to depend on the same issue or is the same as it is too many cases from this government that a written or declared purpose may appear to be good, but the method is not designed to achieve the results or even to make things worse. It seems that there is no room for any kind of service that would ensure the same kind of service for all, i.e. and the hostilities, a great and long experience in welcoming Iceland, and we have emphasized that we welcome, as well as the huge and growing numbers of inmates who are being received here what is now called international protection, are being granted a home. As a result, I don't think it's safe to say that we could be able to give the services we've been doing very well, to give relief to people in the country or abroad. Making an obligation for the State to provide a specific service for the non-specified number of people and at the same time to increase the number of inevitable, without assuming the consequences, is not a sign of good preparation for making a case of as important a lawsuit as this. It is clear that the way you respond to those who are taking refuge has a very significant effect on the number of applications. This experience is known from neighboring countries and, indeed, to countries around the world. It has also become known today how it works. Unfortunately, there is a part of the fact that gangs who abuse people's problems, use their advertising activities - because this is really nothing else - the services available locally to sell access to those areas. Thus, Finnar experienced a few years ago that a large number of applications were suddenly received, and thousands of people came from Iraq. They don't know how this is going, but they're gonna look into it. The day came when a group of refugees, people in need, traveled to other countries, had earlier stressed moving people to Belgium, reevaluated their positions after changing rules, and concluded that the most successful destination, relative to what was available, was Finland. The North countries have responded to this in order to have better control of refugees and better follow the policies most of the North countries have wanted to follow, and Iceland has been well controlled for a long time, i.e. to be in a position to receive the host, especially in cooperation with the United Nations, and to welcome and direct people on that course. The North thought that there was a reason to react to this trend and to show that the best way, the right way, was to follow the international system that man had been putting together rather than to encourage people to come in another way that often involves frequent, unfortunately, very dangerous travel on the ground of man, which is often unsatisfactory. As a result, in recent years all the northern countries have revised their immigrants'policy, and especially in regard to the status of refugees, with the goal of improving their performance and accepting those who are truly entitled to asylum. In Denmark, it took a form that was rather unpleasant to many, including me, to demand that refugees return to the land give their belongings to the State. Why did Danir deal with this? They would know that this would be news. Yes, for that matter, the game was designed, so to speak, that it was not a struggle to apply for asylum in Denmark if they did not, on the grounds of which the Danish government and, in fact, other Norwegian governments considered important for these matters, i.e. to follow the direction that the Norwegian government considered important to get these issues into, especially now that this is ever more urgent. The situation is now in Iceland, with a relatively higher number of people applying for asylum here than in Sweden and Germany, and a lot more than they are applying for asylum in Denmark or Norway. It's a figure of 2017 and 2018. In 2017, over five times the proportion of people in total applied for asylum in Iceland than in Norway and six times as many as in Denmark. Popular applications based on the population of the country are the majority in Iceland of the northern countries, and as I had the ability to do more than I could in Germany. In fact, Iceland has the highest share in the world, most of which are Mediterranean, Greece, Cyprus, and Malta, who receive more applications simply because these countries are close to the highest and close to the areas in which the members of this population are sending in most people's plight, and unfortunately often with tragic consequences. I would have thought it would be natural and, in fact, necessary for Iceland to look to the development of the North countries. We are able to discuss trends in the North countries, and especially in this area, where we can learn from the experiences of countries that have far greater experience in dealing with these issues than Iceland, and we can learn them both from their mistakes and what they have done. Now that a review of the alien laws associated with this matter is being made, in my opinion, it is very strange that the government should bring up this matter here, absolutely without regard to its consultation. This may reveal how much there is a grasp of that agreement or the will of the government to discuss it. Of course, one indication that this is a problem is how the estimated cost of this is measured. There is an expense to increase the staff of the Multi-Creation Centre by two and so, I think, for example, I think that it will cost 1.2 million to buy office equipment for this case, but there is nothing in the bill on what the real cost will be because this system is completely altered in Iceland, despite the fact that it would be perfectly predictable, even if only by looking at the experience of other countries, this will be the big increase in international protection, about Iceland's refuge and the number of them who will eventually enjoy these rights. In other words, this cost is simply being hidden. In a speech earlier, the minister could take into account him in the government budget. There's no sign of it. It mentions about 180 million. K. increase over time. Sadly, this is not the first time the government has a policy, especially in this category, where, apparently, an obvious effect is overlooked, especially in terms of cost. At the time, in 2015, as the flow of refugees suddenly grew to a great degree, the government responded by three measures. First, by welcoming and setting up funds for more eaters. Second, by reacting to an increase in the number of trust applications and setting funding to cope better with those applications and to deliver them faster than they had already been able to. This was the response to the vast increase in refuge attendance. Third, with the support of countries that have the greatest difficulty with refugees, especially countries with very large refugee camps, to form in Lebanon, where the Lebanese state, which is extremely poor financially, is very alert to fight, and is hard to live up to the land - assigned service and, unfortunately, does not have the assistance that should be provided by Western countries in the form of financial contributions. The same is true of rich people other than Lebanon because governments in these Western countries do not often view the bigger picture and want to place their money on something they can show at home rather than contribute funds where it is even more useful. As a result, the situation of refugees in many of the countries that are closer to the conflict and danger areas is very poor. I would encourage the government of Iceland to further support the arrival of refugees in these areas, to assist these countries with this important role, and to welcome the refugees we accept, especially in agreement with the United Nations, rather than to give constant attention to unconcerned, unappreciated, unfunded, and even to cause harm rather than to the others. It would likely be fine to see that the government not only looked back on the experience of the northern countries as I could before, and tried to learn from them, but rather looked at the work that has taken place in political parties in the North countries to form in Denmark. If to form the direction of the socipheric codfish, the Danish Company, would be guided by a number of them, and there might be a fall in making it easier for us to welcome the people who come here, to assist people better than we do in the areas close to war and other dangers and to care for this great and important class, and the humanity that is the essence of this group, better than by being shown as presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u47	A respectable president. I have to admit, I don't understand what's wrong. A senator fears these matters so much. Now I don't want to go. This is the case by a senator, but the discussion presented here is related to the fear constantly brought on by foreigners and refugees. I hope that's certainly not what it is. A senator is leaving with his language. But they say, "Yes, we should support them at home. " We need to do the same. We need to be more ambitious in assistance, development aid, government assistance, but often that is not enough. There is a real difficulty in fleeing war - torn territory, and the solution is not to pay neighboring countries to house them in refugee camps for years. This is not a future solution or a future resort for those in a delicate position with children. That's why I don't understand what the problem is, that we only pride ourselves in accepting refugees coming from danger zones. There's nothing to fear that we have the gaming border here. There are few countries that have as closed borders as they are from the EEA, in fact. It's just that it's very difficult for people outside the EEA to get a residence or residence permit in any way, maybe that's part of the problem. But the big thing in the end is to move in from states in the EEA every year to the U.S. On the contrary, we have not been able to receive it, and we have just been moving people to the country to work here. We're supposed to welcome these people. I don't know what it is. A senator fears in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u48	Mr. President. I'm going to pass on making a lot of remarks to the first remark. A senator who was typical of restoration thoughts in the spirit of the image politics that this class has become active. So as a result, because I release it, I'll also not discuss how strange approach is. A senator is primarily considering refugees to be a future labor force to keep the economy going. But because of him. A senator asked about the situation at a refugee camp and made me feel a little less aware of the other measures in the refugee affairs, the comparison I had of the importance of supporting these camps and countries holding them, it is quite clear that much more part, the vast majority of those who live in these camps, it is my experience of meeting these people, meeting with the representatives of the United Nations, and is experience with most or all who have got to go and get to know this by their own experience, that these people prefer to return home. Yet, there they live in the refugee camp, often under dreary conditions. Actually, there's a lot of access to it. There's a big difference between these camps. In many places, and that is the way it should be, offered a medical service, an education program, and other basic services for the people there. But it is not free and often very difficult for these poor countries to care for the necessary services, health care, education, for these people. Why, then, should we Icelanders not want to use the funds we have available to address this problem, the vastest problem in the most reasonable way? Why, then, should we have to follow such ideas as Awakening and other speakers that, all too often, go out to appear to be the best by doing something as visible as possible in the vicinity of the environment but often care about what is farther away?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u49	Mr. President. I'd like to have a conversation. Chairman of the Central Party and what. A senator on the ideal case, but let us choose a better and longer time for that discussion. I view refugees and immigrants, not as labor workers, but simply people who are here to live in search of a better standard of living but who just want us to benefit. It's just contrary to this discussion, and it's so often heard that immigrants are some kind of burden on society. In fact, immigrants are not a burden on society at all. They are deeply involved in building this community up for themselves and for the rest of us. There is nothing to be afraid of in that regard. I just agree with what. A senator, of course, is expected to do more in the vicinity of the environment, but we need to realize that the world's refugee problem is great, that it has come to be, and that it will probably only grow, and not just because of war, but because of the very serious consequences of global warming that will lead to more refugee problems in the world. [[The president calls.]] It is the community duty of all of us built to ensure that people can move around, even though borders have been drawn here and there over the past few centuries. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u50	Mr. President. Make sure people move around, say what. Senator. It has been guaranteed, as he well knows, in Europe. But how did it work out? How does the EEA deal work? Yes, it goes on to ensure that the rights and the equal circumstances between countries are equal in order for humans to move around. Hence, it is inevitable to discuss this, the international stream, not just refugees, but like the wind. One senator, who says, is able to move around, will discuss the importance of choosing public improvement in many parts of the world. However, this depends, of course, on having a reasonable government, not on government, such as those in Venezuela, where socialism, socialistic government causes one of the world's greatest refugees.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u51	A respectable president. I will not have the time to reason this all out. A senator but for answer. A senator asking how the EEA deal went and moving around it is just very well. There are 500 million people who are allowed to move to Iceland today, and that's all right, amazing but true, which has been for quite a while. Hv. A senator says he wants to support the group, i.e. But he never does anything except take some action to solve the problem, as he describes best in his speech, which is simply a number of inmates, and that he takes some money to receive people. These are the problems I hear. Whether there are 20 people or 2,000, we are dealing with a senator in his speech, not the problem of welcoming people who come here. Hv. A senator also goes on to see the typical fear propaganda that has developed here in connection with the United Nations approval of passengers and especially among the last alien laws approved here, i.e. When it's low. A senator speaks of someone trying to change the system and a large variety of applications for international protection. A respectable president. There's just no discussion here, either in this bill or in government plans. There is nothing in the United Nations approved about it either, as we have seen many times. What I really feel is the hardest thing to listen to. In this regard, a senator always looks at the matter so that there are some evil mansal rings out there, which are true, responsible for all of this. He doesn't realize that there's a reason why human rings don't try to lure Polish into Iceland or Germany or find them. That's because the Poles, Greeks, Germans, Portugal, and Finns can stay here. They can simply do so. There's nothing to sell them. When we received an enormous amount of trust from people from Albania, Macedonia, Georgia, and undoubtedly from abroad, the people who were looking only for employment and who had been advised to take the safe course, which, of course, was bad for these people, were bad for the Icelandic system and all of that. Instead of offering some resources that would be appropriate for the people who come here to work, we say no for fear of a flood, and that is the circumstances that create the pressure that suits the ment rings. Hv. A senator is trying to solve the wrong problem when speaking here in conjunction with this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u52	Mr. President. Hv. A senator now asked no questions, gave a small incoherent talk that was a sort of extract from his earlier speech. I have no question to answer, but I can still try to correct things as well as other things. A senator mentioned, as time is meant. First of all, I wasn't critical of the EEA deal before if he understood me like that. On the contrary, I was referring to the terms of the EEA Convention and why people imagine that people can move freely between countries of the EEA. This is because in that region, the standard of living has reached a relative level but not to a greater degree, so I am adding to the previous explanation, that from the less-effective Eastern European region, there has been a considerable stream of west, just to be expected and may be said to have been expected or expected. In fact, that current has perhaps. Some of these countries have lost a large number of qualified people to whom countries have needed, but that is another story. It is one of the side effects of the EEA Convention that undoubtedly has benefited many of these countries greatly. Toward the end of his talk, it was difficult. However, a senator just beyond his earlier speech, when he opened to what I had just suspected he would, that simply open the border fairly independent of the circumstances, and that those who wanted to move from one country to another should have the right to do so. It is not a realistic arrangement, Mr. President, as men have figured out to form in Denmark, where the Danish socialists have actually explained that they cannot compare North American welfare systems with open borders. Unfortunately, it is not possible to have both at the same time and a strong notic welfare system better equipped to help others than to damage the welfare system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u53	A respectable president. I didn't come here to ask what. Rather, a senator points to things and gives him the freedom that he wants to answer them as he wants or not if he does not. That's against me without cause. I'm just here for the discussion, to give it to her whatever I can, whatever it is. However, whether it is useful or not of an EEA partnership, it remains after approximately 500 million people who are allowed to move from one country to another have not caused the foretold Deluge. I like it. A senator and his followers quickly begin talking about the gap between the gap and the like. For Albania, Macedonians, and Georgians, it does not take any open border to create a work permit suitable for them. There is no need to open a border to that end. There is even a number limit, a number similar to that of the Poles every year or something. Would that be some terrible problem? I don't think so. How is it not a problem if we get the workers here, tell about East Poland, all of a sudden it's a problem if people in exactly the same situation come from Albania? This is what we can't resist, a respectable president. What's wrong with you? A senator always turns to try to reduce people who come here rather than have the legal environment so that people from Iraq or other places that can come here and build their society do not have to use mansales to find some hope in life.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u54	Mr. President. First I heard why. A senator would say that I didn't understand him right, but then he explained that I had correctly understood him, that anyone could come from anywhere if they wanted to work in Iceland or then in Britain or in the United States or anything, in other words: an open border. Or wanted to do it. A senator just draws the boundaries from the countries he referred to, Albania, Georgia, Macedonia, and Iraq? What about a large country in East Asia where there are maybe 5% of what they are here? Is there, then, a way to enter a Icelandic labour market and compete with Icelandic workers? There was nothing else to hear - except why. A senator was merely thinking of these four lands and not just mentioned them - but at the same time. A senator wanted an open border. Then I reiterate what I said before, as the Danish socialists have come to realize, that there is not a parallel between the North American welfare system and an open border.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u55	A respectable president. Here we will discuss the change in the law on the affairs of immigrants, a case that is in support of my mind, a case based on a Senate resolution of an operation program on the affairs of immigrants proposed by a government acting in 20136/2016. I followed this case through a General and Education Committee as an executive and I'm very happy to see that now we're fulfilling what we've put forward and that this operation has been completed, as well as others I expect. However, the debate here has been a matter of very little interest in the legal or judicial matters of immigrants. It has focused primarily on the affairs of foreigners and the people who are traveling around the world. I'd like to give a quote. A senator who spoke in his talk: We are to focus on receiving more of those who are entitled to an asylum here. I think I got it right. As far as I could hear, the senator stressed that we should take good care of those entitled to international protection. That's exactly what this case is all about. Can't the senator confirm that? This is a matter of service to all who have the right to international protection. This will work out how the service to those who have received these applications is being conducted, that both the greeting and those who receive international protection will enjoy a service comparable to that of having the opportunity to become active members of the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u56	Mr. President. I stressed that we would welcome the people we have invited here, welcome the refugees, as we have done for several decades, refugees who go that way as different countries, and we, according to my opinion, would like to try to focus this problem on, i.e. The best way to cope with this vast problem. If there is to be the same rights for those who come here or who are sent here, many of which are also examples, provide the same rights as the host at this table, then first, it calls for a very significant increase in expenses that we may spend for some year. But it also calls for a growing number of people, the growth of those who do things differently, to which it has been considered the best way to deal with this problem. And who are the ones that keep people in line? Unfortunately, gangs, such as I previously traced, who advertise the trips to Europe, especially Facebook and other community media, and who make use of the situations offered to exploit the people who are in trouble. We need to have ways to welcome those who will enable us to help those in most dire situations and who will do so in a decent way. The way we're going here isn't for that. I repeat what I pointed to earlier. Just look at the comparison between the northern countries and their experience with these two, and how it proved to be possible to unite them in one.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u57	A respectable president. This is where I think it is. The contrast is confused between the welcome of the people who apply here for international protection and the rate of application and the service they receive while waiting for the release of applications and then the services they receive after the application has been completed. This is the service discussed here, not the service or the speed of the trial. Questions that I would like to direct to the later senator are: Where does the number of people from the north come from as a proportion of people in the North countries who have received international protection? The information I have most recent since 2018 and 2018 shows that we're on a pair with Norway and Finland at a reception both of the host and of those who come themselves, but in Sweden the ratio is twice as high as here. [[The president calls.]] How much have candidates for international protection decreased in the past two years?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u58	Mr. President. I wasn't talking about anything that takes time to sort out applications, although it's certainly worth talking about, and I wasn't talking about a service that humans enjoy during the application period. I was just talking about the comparison made by this case in a service that people will be entitled to, that has been accepted as patrons, as well as the services that are entitled to those in tribulation. It's not me, actually. It's why. A senator who confused with applications and asylum groups. I wasn't talking about asylum groups, I was talking about asylum applications, and from numbers from Foreign Institutes that clearly show that, on the basis of population, many more are applying for asylum, at least Compared to 2017 and 2018, Iceland and Norway and Denmark. Hv. One member noted that there has been a decrease in number. In fact, it seems to me that there is an increase this year. The reduction in Denmark was 84% between 2015 and 2017.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u59	A respectable president. I can't sit here for the discussion that's been going on today, especially since then. 3.m. That's the north side. " Sigmundur Davíð, son of Gunnlaugsson, " I must say, his speech and answer were sadly not surprising. I always try to see the light of the Middle Ages. I try to think of him as not taking advantage of the fear of people or ignorance of the group of lawsuits in an effort to pave his way, as if once. In fact, a senator made a point of handling a certain bar at the time; let's not discuss it further. But this needs to be corrected. paritaprevir This is the case with Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, who needs to be corrected, and they need to be challenged when people come up here in a pit to create problems and to make up others opinions they have just not claimed. I was standing right here, saying exactly that I wasn't talking about a gaudy border. I'd be talking about a permit to be granted on the basis of a work programme that worked, for example. ... forAlbani. There are a lot of tools to be taken into account, and there are no open borders, a respected president. An open border means you don't need a living permit at first. That's not what I was suggesting, I just want to keep it up. The reason why they should wake up. paritaprevir Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson's lie about this is because it suits his cause. It's easy for him to come to a peninsula and say he's opposed to wide-open the border, that's just a very easy compromise. He cannot handle the language that it may be all right for a couple of Albanirs to come here and work, and that it is possible to make a law that serves that purpose. He can't come here and explain why he's against it. He must resort to lies as to how others have spoken here and begin to gas through open borders and what one has to say. It is the same proverb that we saw in the discussion of foreigners in our day. At this point, the gaping border was claimed to be a total loss of control over our borders, and it is the same as the United Nations approval of passengers. A respectable president. It's just a bunch of bullies and shit. A senator well knows this. However, as he seemed to understand here in reply earlier, this bill does not have any changes in the conditions for asylum. And one thing he hasn't explained either, that's why in the world he likes this idea, and he says himself, a respectable president, stressed that this service is there to be a host of men who come here through the United Nations, while he would not offer this service for people who come up here on their own and receive refuge, receive protection. Why should one group be given no service, as it has been, and the other group should receive the ministry at the same time? A senator of his own? Why? He hasn't explained that. The reason is simple. That is because he wants to be supportive of pathways that are obviously positive and that clearly work today, such as the support of the greeting workers at the same time as he wants to feed and take advantage of fear and, in many cases, people's ignorance regarding the sect in order to break down the fear and take advantage of it for political gain. That, a respectable president, is dishonest and shameful. It is possible to disagree with this group of subjects and this bill without resorting to such techniques, without putting up with people's opinions in a ponta and creating any problems that are not there, brushing off all the tables that people offer without replacing, and claiming to emphasize the solutions that are given at the same time. It's easy to act like this. Any politician can do this after two weeks of media training. Every politician must know that. It's just cheap. It's just a poor, respectable president, and I think it's all right to say it out here. I want to use the final seconds to talk again about the solutions. The United Nations Convention on Transporters is about trying to establish a series of crisis conditions that arise from time to time in the affairs of passengers, e.g. Because of the civil war in Syria, as well as because of Venezuela today and other such monsters will be in the coming decades, that is, given. What nourishes human cartels and organizations is the reaction of communities to this epidemic problem. It's just like on drugs, it's a public policy that makes it profitable to become a drug - based criminal king. Our reactions are important. It matters how the law is in the country, and we can make it so that we can measure people's human rights and our personal interests at the same time, let more people in, better take care of them without having to resort to the fear of nervousness reflex. The senator's order is here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u60	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct any change in the property law suggested to enable owners to set up electrical cars at or at the parking lot in the real estate. The bill was written at the Department of Social Affairs, having agreed on the employment and innovations and the Environmental and Resource Ministry, as well as the representatives of the Home Deposit Society and the European Union. The bill is a factor in government policy on energy exchange in road transport, but one third of the greenhouse gas emissions that are directly responsible for the public's direct responsibility comes from road transport. The largest single action possible to meet Iceland's commitments is to reduce such emissions by changing tourism and energy exchanges in road transport. There has been a rapid increase in the number of electric cars in Iceland and in the second world seat after Norway in terms of the proportion of newly registered automobiles. Yet, among other things, energy exchange can be delayed, there are loading opportunities in the pantry. The current laws on the multi property houses include a degree of barrier in this area, including those in the pan-European region. It is understood that all owners' consent is available to exchange common and exclusive parking lots in such buildings. The simple majority of owners must then agree to provide a loading station for cars on a common property, although parking lot is still used as a common parking lot. On the other hand, if the use of a specific parking lot is restricted to loading electrical vehicles, the approval of all owners is required, by sharing common parking lots or by allowing the owners of such vehicles to be specific and to increase the right to use partnership above other owners. Hence, the subject of the bill is to make necessary changes in the multi property law, guided by the guidance of electrical vehicle evasion, in accordance with government policies on energy exchange in roadways, by enabling the public to install relief devices for electrical cars at home in multi owned buildings. With the bill I recommend here, four new articles will be set up for loading equipment in the multi-market electric theaters. It is suggested that a owner who wishes that loading equipment be placed in an electric vehicle parking lot on the property of a property building should carry it to him. It is thus expected that the subject will report such a request to the house of the partner owner, who subsequent reviews the expected future need for such equipment and equipment, such as management equipment, and implementations may be expected to be necessary to meet this need. The bill suggests that in general the approval of other owners is not needed to allow loading equipment to be installed at or at the parking lot on the property site, unless this results in the use of electrical vehicles only if this results in more than half of the total and total automobiles. It is suggested that battery equipment for electrical vehicles and other related equipment should meet the requirements set out in law on electrical security, burn prevention and construction, and that a validated electrical contractor should be carried out for such equipment to the extent that they have to deal with electricity. The bill suggests how the cost of loading cars is divided into the owners of a multi owned building. Thus, costs are expected to be specialized to the extent of their special property. In contrast, to the extent of partnership, it is expected that the common cost of all the owners authorized to use from the respective parking lot will remain new as a common parking lot or only for loading electrical vehicles, regardless of whether the owners have special parking lot. Thus, it seems reasonable and reasonable that all those who have access to the respective parking lot will be allowed to take part in the cost, and they and their people will be allowed to take advantage of the opportunities for the future. Furthermore, it is suggested that there may be a common cost to owners, everyone or some, even if it is a means of loading on or on some special property to form in common terms. The bill also suggests that a smaller part of the owners may, in exceptional cases, demand that the project be postponed for up to two years while being collected into a special project fund. That is when a battery of electrical vehicles produces a common cost of unusually high compared to what is commonly practiced in similar homes because of special circumstances. Homemates are also expected to be authorized to demand moderate monthly fees from the owners using electrical loading equipment. As mentioned earlier, the bill was consulted by a representative of Homeowner's Society and the European Union of the United States. In addition, the bill was employed in consultation with the Employment and Development Ministry and the Environmental and Resource Ministry. Among these people was the drive taken to the bill for electrical loading equipment in multi owned buildings. Legalisation of the bill is not expected to affect government administration nor is it expected to result in financial spending. If this bill is legal, the rules for loading cars will be more specific to the use of powerhouses. Thus, in line with government policies on energy exchange, a Court's trial will be reduced in terms of the rules of handling such equipment, as well as by the role of electrical vehicles in this country. After this discussion, a respectable president, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u61	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize the annual bill, No. 3/2006, with subsequent changes, on deck. 663, No. 447. The bill suggests changes to XII. section of the Act on annual accounts in which conversion is considered, if they do not return annual accounts or condensation accounts, or when a year's balance sheet concludes that explanations or information from annual accounts or collection accounts do not meet the rules of the law. Recalculation of annual accounts has improved substantially after legal reformation in 2016, but timely understanding provides the basis for the success of information from linked partners. Based on annual accounts, 4,557 companies were found guilty of miscalculation in their annual accounts for 2016. Of these, 1,631 companies have not yet submitted their annual accounts and are still registered in a company file. It is not clear why the budget has not returned a year's account, but the enterprises which have not returned annual accounts in the above mentioned fall under the 121 - year bill.g. each year's bill. In view of the number of associates involved here, and especially the costs that would be due to the switch of them according to law, it has been considered appropriate to give partners the opportunity to restore their annual accounts together with the failure of their unions and adequate account accounts. The bill suggests two major changes. First, a change in the deadline is expected because of the imminent demand for change on the 121th basis of par. The law. In order to make changes in the final deadline provided by partners to set up annual accounts in the proper form and further rules for the treatment of this requirement for the state of the country. Secondly, it is suggested in the bill that a annual bill will be authorized to cancel the total government fines based on Article 120. The law and the law broke on the part of the individual. This authority is always conditioned by the fact that it has properly submitted annual accounts. The bill assumes that a monthly bill will be allowed to cancel the total number of each year due to a miscalculation of annual accounts as well as the dissociation of partners and a sufficient annual account will be submitted. If the bill remains unchanged, the law is not expected to influence the survival of a government fund. Mr. President. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u62	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a bill to correct the change of various legal requirements for the credit departments and the appropriate conditions of the management board and the Commission cooperation of a team. 624, No. 448. On the other hand, the bill is suggested to remove the authority of a partner to operate credit units and, on the other hand, to provide comparable appropriate conditions for the management and executive partners and to apply for the management and executives of their partner and partner and private partner. So the bill contains suggestions for changing the Community legislation and the secondary changes to other laws because of the above proposals for partnership-ins. Two. a in the Community Act, No. 22/1191 is the source of a partner's cooperation to operate credit units to meet certain strict conditions. In the 18th. The law says that carers are not responsible for the overall commitment of the enterprise beyond the payment of the Member State's fee and by property of the society's funds. In view of this, the status of the depositors in the banking departments of partners has not been sufficiently secure. With law No. 84/1993 and 23/2001 were required to be reexamined by the bank departments, first not later than January 1, 2000, and again on January 1, 2004. In the primes of those who became law No. 84/1993 and 23/2001 are carefully discussed on depositors' status in credit centres and describe concern for the situation. In a paper with a bill that turned into law No. 23/2001 says, including ... thata recession in the activities of deposit departments based on the overall loan of loan institutions and changes in capital markets show that the status of the joint partners has deteriorated in the years ahead compared to the business banking and savings funds. It may be reasoned that the loan departments do not serve the needs of financial services required, as well as that the interests of depositors are not protected in the same way as in business banks and savings. It is possible to view credit work as a future means for partners in a capital market. It is noted that depositing is generally considered to be a problem with other businesses, and thus business banks and savings have been put under tight restrictions on other activities than the particular financial functions. In recent years, employment and innovation have received indications from the SEC that it is necessary to take laws on partnerships for reimbursement to be revised by the Agency to monitor this cooperation partner. The topic "EEC " shows that a review of Article 2 needs to be made. a taking into account the lack of such activities, i.e. credit departments, please report to a group that does not match the safety precautions comparable to the values of business banks and savings. Between 1999 and 2006, the number of creditors dropped from ten to one. By the end of 2016, the deposit of the loan department was 1,668 million. K., i.e. 0.1% of total loans. In 2017, the last savings department was closed, and in 2018, insurance funds were severed. So today it's not a team-in-law job. In view of this, as well as the fact that depositing of loans is considered to be more suitable in banks and savings than fellow workers, but with them strict precautionary requirements are laid down to eliminate the value of the specified regulations. a in the law on partnerships. Also, as stated earlier, other laws are altered that result from the above change of law on partnerships. For the relevant conditions of the management board and the executive partner, members of a partner do not carry personal responsibility for the overall commitment of a member of the enterprise beyond the Member State's fee and therefore similar partnerships to partners and private partners in this respect. In view of this, it cannot be seen that there is a reason to measure less demands for an appropriate member of the management board and the manager's partner than it is made for the management board and the manager of its partner and private partner. The bill therefore suggests that the same appropriate conditions for the management and management of partners and the Commission apply to the management and executive of their partner and private partner. Mr. President. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u63	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of home loans to consumers and forced sales laws. That subject is the bill in the daily language of people's keys. The bill is designed to strengthen the defenses of homes and families on financial problems, just as the bill on growth and insurance that I recommended at the autumn Parliament and was reassigned from the previous council, such as this bill. Further, the movers here are aggressors. Councilmen Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir, Þórarinsson, Gunnar Jónsson Sveinsson, Þór Þorvaldsson, Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason, Sigmundundsson, ÞorsteinnDavíð Sæmundsson. Mr. President. The bills that are headed for the same objective as this bill, key launchers, have been submitted at least six times before, last in 149, the legislature, where it was the 135th matter. Well, that's a little different now, isn't it? The bill of this is building a series of initiatives from the household of the Habitats Association. It is based on the same reasoning given to the earlier embryos, but it is beginning to be a relatively recent means of exporting it in the light of recent legal developments. This bill suggests a modest change that can have a great deal to do with the consumers'wages, resulting in loss of their home on an overdue sale. According to information provided by the National Institutes of Economic Affairs, problems involving the survival of mortgages are followed by forced sale among the most common people now entering the board, and there are even some cases that consumers are still being demanded of suspected posts, even though they have been fully paid for their forced sale. Since this is now required at 38th. Law on home loans to consumers, No. 118/2016, for example, to offer alternative options before requiring an obligatory sale, it is likely that everything else will be fully developed before it is due to the fact that a creditor has no predictable means of living up to the commitments of his housing. In such cases, it is always safe to conclude that the terms of payment are automatically met in terms of the demolition of debt beyond the value of real estate. Is it, therefore, to contribute more efficiently to the solution of such cases that the remaining bets due to mortgages fall behind forced sales of consumer property, as well as that would share the risk of borrowing fairly between loans and creditors? Mr. President. The objective of the bill is to contribute to the careful loaning of loans by handing debts to mortgage loans, i.e. The real estate, and if you hit the bank, walk away without debts. The bill is such an important factor in distributing risks in real estate loans and giving domestic loans that there is a one - sided risk on loans. It is also the objective of the bill to contribute to the effective implementation and implementation of the European Parliament Directive and the Council 2014/17/EU from February 4, 2014, for the loan agreements for consumers in the setting of housing and Member States. With Parliamentary Reunion No. 9/150 from November 18, 2018, the General agreed that a administrative advance from Iceland would be agreed on to the decision made by the joint EEA on the recording of the EU contract. The directive's regulations have largely been legalized in this country by the law on property loans to consumers. In view of the indications that have been received regarding the implementation of the law, the aim is to sharpen them further in order to enhance and better explain the rights of consumers in this field. Mr. President. The need for legalizing measures, such as those recommended by the bill, was clearly seen following the 2008 financial collapse when the gang of the crowning labor fortunes caused the success of the loan agreements to become too much for the debtors. The grappling effects of the gang's success resulted in comparable consequences to the price of loans. The lack of intelligence faced by consumers caused an unprecedented riot in the community that followed. It is essential to learn from experience and to implement resources to prevent the recurrence of history. After receiving that experience, it would be a great improvement in strengthening the status of the debt of real estate loans in a manner laid down in the bill. In addition to bringing about the necessary resources needed to cope with economic problems, the potential risk distribution would encourage loan institutions to pursue more successful loans. Thus, the bill is designed to make the interest of a lender and a consumer put together beyond what is now with the objective of a consumer being able to live up to the payments of his mortgage, while true real estate will not be much less than the value of the loan agreement. This would reduce the likelihood of the formation of real estate microspheres, such as those in the years leading up to collapse. In the long run, changing the environment in this respect led to careful credit work, all for the benefit of society. Furthermore, an answer may be referred to the highest degree. The Minister of Justice asking about forced sales and bankruptcy as well as the justice minister's answer to a request for forced sales and remuneration - I proposed both of these written inquiries to the 148th legislature Council - where it was reported that in the past ten years, both of these written requests would have been submitted at least 9,195 individual property has been sold under compulsion or due to payment. No doubt more families have lost their homes by other means, but there are no official numbers in this regard. Despite this experience, small defenses have been built in behalf of the households. As evidence of this, a report by the Minister of Justice on the implementation of EICs on the terms and laws of forced sales on deck. The issue of 2076, 995, in 149 C.E., in more detail in Article 3 of Section A, does not specifically check whether the borrower has met the criteria of 1 mg. Thirty-eight. law on home loans to consumers in the implementation of forced sales. The bill aims to improve this, consumers to benefit. Mr. President. This bill suggests legalization of what is called the bill extant, and it comes from the international legal world, where Latin is often used, at least at times when it's solemn, and that's what it's called...... thedatioinsaidinsin real estate loans. Values thus reveal that demanding relationships between demands and creditors do not end in the first place, since the demands have been accepted as an adequate payment. Thus, in this bill it is assumed that according to a contract for mortgages, where loans are guaranteed by pledges in the purchased estate, the release of the specified property will be considered to be the complete payment of half a debt equal to the completion of the commitment. It is assumed that this is a test only in distress, I stress it, Mr. President, e.g. When a credit card has been given to the creditors and the legal rights of demands to seek the full extent of its demands, it has been effective. A report by the International Advisor Society London Economics, 2012, on resources for consumers in financial difficulties is very much discussed on top of the current level. It shows that similar resources have long since been available in the United States and have failed financially in Europe. Is Spain specifically mentioned in this regard. It also points to the European Commission guidelines from June 1, 2015, for underdeveloped and underdeveloped sales, which provide more detailed guidance on how to handle matters. This suggests that the candidate should be sufficiently moderate in such measures to the consumer. Details of legal implementation, Mr. President, I'd like to say, according to Article 38. legal on consumer mortgages is obliged to provide consumers with resources, such as reimbursement or return of loans, which could solve the problems of consumers before requiring forced sale. Thus, the lawgiver's will is to appoint a forced sale as a means of success in such cases and to make any way impossible, including the way to negotiate. When this is the case, the consumer's financial situation must always be problemed with debt, so it is a serious matter to provide a solution to the consumer's situation under such burdens, as has been sought in later times by a law on individual payment adjustments, No. 101/2010, change in bankruptcy law, etc., No. 21/1191, compare law No. 142/2010, as well as financial support laws on paying insurance for bankruptcy costs, No. 9/2014. In such cases when all other things have been fully developed before forced sales are required, it can always be concluded that the conditions of payment are automatically met in terms of the demolition of mortgages beyond the value of real estate. Is it, therefore, that in such cases, there is a tendency to increase the effectiveness of a solution to the situation that, according to the bill, the principle that the remaining debt due to real estate loans will fall down in the wake of an forced sale on consumer's property. This production of the bill has taken into account comments that have appeared at earlier levels, including from the office of the agent's office of creditors with reference to the law on forced sales. According to 57th. 6 / 15 " You Are God's Ministers, " No. 90/1191, the bail holder who cannot meet the demands of forced sales may not require loans for the payment of his demand unless he can show that the market value at the time of the forced sale would not have enough to pay them. This can only be true in those cases when the sale of the retailed property is under the market value. If the price of gambling is also paid under the market value of the property, the provision will lead to the release of a debt. This is true regardless of type or type of requirement, whether legal or individual, of any debt. On the other hand, if the price of gambling is higher than the market price of the prize, a debtor may still owe the other half of the market and have lost insurance on the property because of the forced sale. However, in terms of demands originally founded on consumer property loans, the bill's principle would mean that a debt would still be free. The bill, however, does not reach other species, nor does it reach its objective. Rather, it reaches only the requirements of home loans to consumers. So if the bill is legal, it goes on again with regulations of 57th. Invested sales songs, when requirements based on contracts made for consumers are involved. On the other hand, the law holds its value against other demands to form requirements based on the legal agreement on mortgage. In the 5th. The bill is suggested to add a paragraph to the 57th paragraph. This is explained by an arrangement for forced sales. To promote more efficient implementation of Article 38 The law on consumers' mortgage is further proposed to provide specific changes in the laws on forced sales to make more sure that the conditions of this article are met, as agreed. par. The bill. Together, Mr. President, this is a key bill to improve the position of consumers in real estate dealings with financial institutions. That's what I'm saying. I'm going to suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u64	Mr. President. A key bill has to take part in this process so that the law will start and very normal it is the creditor's responsibility to make it worth what is left of the loan. I'd like to walk a little further, I'd like to have it so that usually when you take a loan for property it's 80% credit rates or so and that's the thing you're paying for it. Thus, when you pay down the loan, it also changes, making more purchases in that way. I'm a little worried about one of these things, even though they mentioned a moderate measure of caution. I'm worried about a deposit loan on the smallest occasion, if you dropped it technically off one or maybe two of the payments, the second time you may miss one day, and the bank's just going to sell the house, it'll make more money, if that's the case, to sell it at a forced sale where the bank can only do it on its own or something like that, rather than continue his loan. It would be interesting to take part in the Committee's office how to tackle that potential problem. You've seen it on other loan agreements, e.g. In the United States, where students'debts were paid at the least for reasons, there were certain assurances and those that were more profitable for the loan companies than to get continued payments. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u65	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his keen remarks. I think they're a good entry into this case, and it'll be fine. When she begins to discuss the subject, she sees the comments. Hv. A senator mentioned a moderate measure that is very important. I would also like to mention that this measures are intended for disaster, that is a total emergency, and that there must be all previous attempts. It's no joke, as the book says. This is not a simple matter, and it is not as if the financial system is lost with joy when such issues are presented. I'm here following in the footsteps of fine people who have ahead of me put in such initials. This is the second time I have this bill, and I hope that it's a good support. I would like to say that generally speaking there is a great need to bring right what we want to call an imbalance in a position between consumers and lenders. I'll also think about it, even though it's more, more, more, and more topics of conversation, how credit institutions can get people into the register. There's a case that would have to be discussed very extensively here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u66	A respectable president. I'm gonna give you a really long speech. I only say that in the hope that it will be short. When you say that you will give a short talk, it usually becomes a very long talk. I come here mainly to declare support for the bill. I must admit that the application of this is relatively different from that already. paritaprevir Ólafur the Ísleifsson of Ishun made it last, the one standing here, and the more involved in it. This time I find the distribution interesting and quickly, aware that we have not received any of the committee's opinion. The Economic and Business Committee or the reviews of this process, I think it's more accurate and accurate. It's worth a little getting into that room. The senator mentioned, at least very brief. Actually, I wasn't in the gym all the time. A senator gave his speech. This is about how credit institutions react when restrictions are placed on what they are authorized to negotiate. It is worth noting to take such concerns seriously, even if they come from a bank system, but in the same way, we need to be careful not to allow it to continue whenever the banking system or financial sector opposes something or on some side effect is automatically impossible. In this case e.g. Someone thought that interest would increase because the bank would have to assume that he would have to make more money on his loan if perhaps he needed to go into forced sales, resulting in the borrower's not being able to pay back but only the value of the apartment on a forced sale. Of course, we're only talking in situations where the cost is lower than the rest of the loan, something that is likely not very common, except in the case of the priced mortgage today, I suppose, without having examined these numbers recently. On the other hand, I have to call attention to some excellent comments from the Már Wolfgang Mixa from the last time this was submitted. The fine economist and lecturer tend to say contrary to what I think first, which is also why I listen when he speaks. The argument, as I understand it, means that with this bill, where banks are forced to take it into account, there are more responsible loans. When banks lend themselves completely wild and crazy, there is a degree of irresponsibility in loans, which makes it more likely that loans will not be paid that will lead to forced sales or such. This means that the cost of the bank he needs or that he feels the need to make money on the loans is higher than any other consumers paid. This bill could play a role, at least from an economic perspective, in maintaining interest increases, or even in reducing interest rate. It has at least I hope that's what it's gonna do. As we have seen, the application of this is quite different and more careful than the previous contributions that have been made by various members of the Parliament, including those of Pirata for some time. A respected member of that council, Lilja Mósesdóttir'daughter, made a similar statement that others have expressed support for it. I have to say, I'm especially excited to see the matter coming out of nowhere. I expect a financial and business committee, including the members of the committee, and the reviews that will deal with the export process selected in this bill. I'm going to try not to give a long speech, but I'd like to come up here first to declare the support of this case, take from all the facts about it, and likewise point to this excellent statement from the Honorable Letter Már Wolfgang Mixa, since the side effects of such matters are often not exactly exactly what you think of first, since economics often become complex and often complex and tasteful of the side effects of all the things we take for ourselves. Thank you. A senator who makes contributions to the bill and looks forward to seeing it come out of a committee that I firmly expect to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u67	Mr. President. I'm an importer for that bill as well as that. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson recommended earlier, not to delay this discussion much, but to suggest a small addition, preferably to the core of this bill, what it really means. First, I'd like to say that a similar bill has been submitted many times before, at least Six times, as shown in the report. Prior to the 2008 financial collapse, this was known in the United States, and since then it has been adopted in many European countries. We haven't adopted this method of debt loans to consumers in Iceland. I believe this would significantly improve the position of the households, where 9,200 persons have been sold as forced sales in this country in the past ten years, as shown in response to an inquiry from the dog. paritaprevir Unsolved Ólafur of Ísleifsson to the Minister of Justice and Ministers of Social Affairs and Child Affairs. Do we need a case? Yeah, it's gonna take a big deal if you just look at these numbers. How has this been accomplished? There I speak from a few experiences where I worked on it. This has been done after forced sale to an incomplete demands, i.e. Those who fail to receive their demands fully after the forced sale have continued to collect the requirements after the forced sale. Thus, credit agencies have often hunted these people after their home has been sold into forced sales. Thus, people have been asked to leave their loans, even if the mortgage, property, home, has been sold. Really, we are here talking about responsibility. The responsibility so far has only fallen upon the borrower, i.e. If he does not pay, borrower will have some resources, such as this, to go on the forced trade route, take his share, or refuse the requirement, and then continue if something is often left out because of insurance, interest, labor, and collection costs that are often common, then continue to pay the person after the forced sale, perhaps for years, as well as to care for the debt, and place him on disparagement, with the discomfort of years for the individual. Then I'll find out what's responsible for the lender, the bank agency. The borrower may lend 50% or 70% of the value of real estate. He thus takes little risk because the loan can be raised considerably, and property can be raised considerably before he sees the real loss of part of his requirement unless he agrees to take over the opposition and back and take that risk. He does not take such risks. He is not given any responsibility when he decides to lend the individual. It's a matter of responsibility, in my opinion. It is time for loan agencies to take some part of their responsibility, not as it has been. It's simple. A loan agency borrows with a mortgage on property. If not enough, which the lender can provide largely for whether he will do or not - there is a need for major events, such as the huge decline in real estate assessment, which leads to some loss, and usually a loss is tied up in the collection process, the tow growth that usually occurs in late stages. At the last phase of the collection process, the demand may be rising very rapidly, the demand may still be moderate, perhaps a year after it is miscalculation, but all that we receive is growing with great dissatisfaction. That's what we're talking about. Is it justified that it will stand outside if the borrower has taken the risk of borrowing very high into the mortgage of real estate or not? I say, "Yes, we have to take responsibility for the lender too." That's not asking too much. We have to start taking responsibility in this community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u68	Mr. President. I'd like to have the shortest case, thank them. Congress members who have participated in this discussion and in the closer and far away ones who have observed it. I thank you for very helpful suggestions that have been presented by all of the people here. I agree with my optimism. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn treatment at the General Assembly. I believe this case merited very thorough treatment at the Senate Committee and then return to the General Hall to 2rd. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason said just before, of course, that there is a difference of responsibility in a way that has not been observed here. It is placed almost entirely on another person's credit agreement, the weaker in the contract. This is very urgent, and here is an attempt to settle this angle a little. Much more should be done and in view of the fact that this is possible when other options have been tested and there is no possibility that they can return the keys to the table. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Karl Hjaltason Einara mentioned the problem list. It's a special research and research project on how people know how to find it. It's a matter of private interest and observation, and I'm sure we'll discuss it later at this council. So, Mr. President, I reiterate my gratitude and allow me to express the hope that we will get this case back in the conference room after a field discussion. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u69	A respectable president. ▪ You have a big look at a little neighborhood, and they say Einar Benediktsson's son in his great song "Living." It is safe to say that he has often exaggerated more because the sea itself is essential to our existence in Icelanders. It surrounds our small society. It is a food chest for the national coven, which is a unique fishing grounds here dedicated to the fact that there are cold currents coming from the north and warm currents from the south, resulting in the discovery of 340 fish. This unique life - form drew men to this point, and the state has been built longer than the country has been, whenever it has been. Since the 14th century, Icelanders have sold fish in international markets and have earned from the significant income that has proved to be a failure over the centuries. The importance of the ocean for an Icelandic nation will never be enough. Now, as it is, and should not be taken lightly, the three Ministry Committees mentioned in this Parliament have already been cooperating with any cooperation under the State Department of State, Task Forces, first in 2017, who had to coordinate the global development of Icelanders in the affairs of the ocean. There were only representatives of the council. So in 2018 and 2018, this Ministry has brought with it a team of colleagues who have also served as representatives of the marine organizations. This group has been able to shape Iceland's policies through so-called BBNJ negotiations that deal with the protection and sustainable use of biological diversity and the making of a contract under the United Nations Sea Treaty. During 2004, cohesive policies in the marine affairs were established by the then government, which was an important step in its time, but also bear the mark of the time, e.g. in that the administration's view of free partnerships was negative in those years. It is safe to say that much water has flowed to the sea since then and that general knowledge of the threats due to climate change has become greater than at that time, e.g. acidification of the sea and plastic pollution, as well as reduced levels of natural protection as a form of signal for marine resources use policies. It is quite time to review these policies, and it is only natural for the Generals to be involved. The Conspiracy proposal here is an attempt to approach this important issue in a larger way than the management board is aimed at setting up fundamentals that should be maintained by Iceland's policy and ensuring that more views of that work are involved, especially nature's view of protection. The proposal is also an attempt to justify the U.S. sea fair policy, taking into account that we are a coastal nation primarily and that we are to be placed in it forever. This is an attempt to look at the issues of the ocean from the latest information we have and not just to maintain our right to hunt and claim there but also to protect the reasons in this world's largest long-term ecosystem, the interests of all of us are. Among the factors to be considered in this work are the following: that Iceland works against the decline of biodiversity by Aichi's aim to guide and take the lead in the established agreements at the UN's domain on the protection and sustainable biodiversity in the marine waters beyond the jurisdiction, BBNJ; to follow the course of Iceland's mobilization of marine decomposition; to be new opportunities to the 14th environmental protection and sustainable aims of the United Nations for the protection and sustainable use of the marine seas, particularly measures against pollution of the sea, including acidification due to increased emissions of carbon dioxide, which are 14.1 and 143, respectively, the protection of marine ecosystems and if they are affected by the efforts of the fish that are 14,6 and for the pooring of countries, thus ensuring the development of the development of substituitation of subcontinement of subs in the Western and Western environment. South 66 degrees. There will also be no prohibition on moving black oil through the north, the area north of 66 degrees, but the prohibition will also take them into account the economic history of Iceland. In this regard it should be noted that black oil is an extremely toxic, viscous, ship - fuel fuel that decays very slowly in marine life and especially in cold regions, in the North seas. If a ship's damage or a fishing accident could result in irreparable damage to our fishing grounds, there is virtually no hope of clearing black oil from the sea. The fire of black oil results in increased greenhouse effects when soots that form sit on ice and glaciers and darker surfaces. This reduces the reflection of sunlight from ice and glaciers, and they melt faster. In this regard, there is also good reason to review Iceland's policies at the World Food Council, and it is quite clear that the child of the past few decades has failed despite enormous effort and cost. Iceland reviewed its policy at the CITS Convention, and it is clear that Iceland's objective that whales will be moved to a protective party will not be reached in the predictable future. Icelanders also have to turn straight from the oil process in the Dragon area, for it is clear that further search for new oil or gas sources does not hold up the agreement made in Paris on greenhouse gas emissions. In this regard, there is reason to remind you of a bill. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson's about freezing oil hunt, but that bill is waiting for payment. In this regard, it is time for Iceland to provide a credible programme for participating in the European Union's joint effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, with the assurance that 40% EU drop by 2030, compared with 1990, will not be enough to achieve the aim of maintaining the air temperature below 2°C, much less than 1.5°C. For this goal to be achieved, the share of the EU, Iceland and Norway must be 55% in reduction by 2030 and the European Parliament adopted that goal in the fall. It is important for all of this work to consult a free association group on marine policy as laid down in the Sea of the Sea, Iceland's policy in the affairs of the sea, beginning in 2004, mentioned earlier. Icelanders need to consider the results of IPCC on the effects of climate change on the ocean. On the basis of such IPCC report from September 2018, the issues of the ocean will be discussed on the basis of the Paris meeting in the same way as we discuss the protection of tropical rainforests. A respectable president. This proposal is proposed in the belief that there will now be an overall national policy on climate change, sustainable innovation and biodiversity protection. It is also important that Icelanders be social parties to themselves and trustworthy ones. From the time the Icelands received control over their own fishing grounds, the nation's water policy for years was based on the concept of coastal countries' rights to control the use of resources within their own jurisdictions on the basis of the United Nations Sea rights Convention. This objective was met when the contract was signed in 1982 in Jamaica and became international law in 1994 when a certain number of Member States had validated the contract. It went into effect here when it was validated by the General of 1985, first by Western nations. During the years since the United Nations Sea Convention, there have been tremendous new environmental challenges. In 1982 climate change was an unknown concept, and only over a decade since the ocean's acidification became known. The Icelandic fishing industry has since 1993, when the Smuggle fishing was done here with a great but less foreseement, at fishing grounds in international seas, as well as in the economic history of the Third World, with disastrous consequences, as the United Nations shows. At the same time, although the Northern Atlantic Council has repeatedly warned of the consequences of such fishing for the karaokes, Russia has rejected the findings of scientists, the United States has been the target of the United States. We're going after them. The United States has also served for more than ten years as an ever - increasing catch of mackerel in Iceland's economic legal history and international seas without a pact on the basis of the United Nations Marine Convention. Iceland has increasingly been involved in regional contracts involving the protection and use of the Atlantic Ocean. Last spring, the Allied Parliament signed a contract to prevent a uncontrolled ocean hunt in the middle of the North Sea. In addition, there are more regional contracts on the globe than there are areas that have no protection. Pirate fishing is still practiced in many of those areas, and Icelanders are not to participate in such activity. The United Nations Convention on Protection of Biodiversity was signed in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, and the United Nations went into effect here in 1994. Similar agreements with his Member States on the protection of marine biodiversity have not been implemented. The Convention is the most important tool to protect and preserve the biological diversity of the earth and to work closely together and discuss its implementation and other international environmental protection agreements. The Treaty means an extensive international commitment for Iceland to the protection and sustainable use of the environment, as well as to a fair exchange of contributions from the use of natural resources. The Convention clearly states the right of each Member State to protect and use its own environment. However, in 2008 Iceland's policy on the implementation of the contract was published. A respectable president. This conclusion is not based on the fact that the first carrier is an expert on marine rights or fishing, others. I believe, however, that it is important for the Generals to develop policy in this matter, but not to leave the markets in the seas or officials in the councils of foreign affairs, marine roads, and to some extent environmentally, all of them growing old. I think it's important to talk about such a policy in this area, and I think it's important that such a policy is a whole thing. This is where we share our interests, all Icelanders, as citizens on planet Earth. [[The president calls.]] Everyone here has to lie down on one, jurists, sailors, natureists, builders, scientists, and politicians.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u70	Mr. President. We'll discuss a synopsis on the affairs of the ocean, which comes from the members of the statesmen. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. It is advertised for a policy in the affairs of the sea. No one hides the importance of having completed a policy in this regard. The importance is clear to all, but the report cannot say, that I am the best, of a course that exists. There is an Icelandic government policy on the affairs of the ocean called the Sea of Iceland. It's from 2004. This document was prepared by three advisers and signed by Siv Friðleifsdóttir, who was then the environmental minister, Árni M. Mathiesen, then the minister of the sea, and then Secretary of State Halldór Ásgrímsson. These include 40-page writing of six chapters, e.g. for marine life and sustainable use in chapter 3, so I'll give you an example. So there's a whole chapter, chapter 6, which is what's supposed to be the policy. I'm gonna be modest, and that's why I'm saying it's a fairly progressive policy relative to 16 years of age. This is a fine foundation under a review or a new policy, whatever we call this, which the State Department's representative at a meeting in the State Department called us a few days ago to be in preparation. The elements of the sea are vital, of course, key, and it was clearly identified. paritaprevir Guðmundur of Andri, son of Thorsson. I'd like to review some of the points that bear this witness, first just about the importance of our heads. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Andri mentioned this, and it's true, I'm not talking about the foodiest future because the way traditional fish are put away is that they will not produce much more than they do in the general sense. This will be an previously unknown source of food because the use of a country, which is only one third of the earth's globe, is limited to a much greater extent than what could be used at sea. I mean fish farms, sea plants, and small marine organisms, which we use very little yet. When compared with the land space available when you plan to preserve the biodiversity of the land, as well as the binding capacity of vegetation, and so on, it is quite clear that culture, vegetables, crops, or what you want to call land or that is why fish farming on land can never produce the same thing in general and sea itself. It reminds us of both the animal and the plant kingdom in the ocean that can be considered. This was only about the importance and limitation of the land when it comes to giving birth to eight, nine, ten billion people. Only on other matters, especially in the international community. The BBNJ project was published as an international contract on the farm to run out between 2018 and 2020. He's different from the 1992 Rio deal. We can put it as if it was about jurisdiction, but this agreement is about the sea outside the jurisdiction of countries and the biodiversity there. Similarly, there is an understatement that needs to be shaped, and this agreement is reasonably on hand, telling us the chairman of the Icelandic embassies working on it, and it will lead to the peace of marine areas at the end of the day. That's very positive, and then we can take a closer look at how these negotiations are conducted on the part of Iceland. So different, but the points were developed early in this process and considered them at the State Department meeting, and I could not help but hear that they were not done well. I'd also like to mention that now we're applying for Iceland's ocean bottom rights, and then we're going outside the economy. They're attending Iceland's rights beyond the economic legal history, and this work is in the process of new research criteria. Seeing is now particularly directed to the city of Rhines, and it is trying to complete the region where Iceland has set its standards. These are not negotiations, there are simply demands, and they try to see which one can be found in the United Nations. Under these conditions is the United Nations Sea rights Convention. It's been over so-called Highlands, northeastern of Iceland. It has acknowledged our rights. So, it's still trying to keep the Rhine side off, and then the hardest part remains, which is called the Hatton-Rocll region. This work is in full swing, and it can also be debated as to whether and how much state should focus on reaching the bottom of the ocean on a geological foundation, another Ella. Then there's another thing I'd like to mention, an international conference for the rise of sea level. It's not a natural convention. It's a legal policy. It is to be held in June 2020. They are trying to find out how the world's countries can respond to an increase in sea level on social and legal levels, e.g. Of insurance and such things. Then I'd like to mention what is called UN Scientific Ocean Information in English, i.e. a kind of initiative taken by the United Nations organization for its research on the oceans. It has become a natural process, and so it has become. This is where laboratory parameters are being coordinated and supplemented. It turns even that the acidification of the sea and the oxygen content of the sea In addition, I would like to mention that negotiations run the use and protection of international seas around the world. It is also a United Nations organization, and the water supply is being referred to, not by the seabed, but by the sea itself. They are trying to agree on the rules and behaviours of the EU and, at the same time, the rights to protect and use, including The whales and other forms of living things are primarily from plants and animals in this sea area, all the world's oceans outside the jurisdiction of countries. At the latest, I would like to mention that there has been a movement toward peace and protection of marine areas within the jurisdiction of countries for a long time. It is because of biological diversity, the breeding areas of marine animals, and the bottomless valuables that can't be mixed up. We are faced by the Icelandic examples, one on the other, in the United States, and at the same time we will be allowed to use it. Yet, this area is protected by specific laws. However, there has been a legal ban on something, then coral reef, mostly south of Iceland. All this is for improvement. Sometimes private people, like Mission Blue, are doing this, but they also have such authorities as the British authorities. Mr. President. There is plenty of work to do in further increase in the affairs of the sea. [[The president calls.]] I encourage you to look at this synonym in the light of all that I've done here and that there is a ocean policy in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Ari Trausti of Guðmundsson is fine for a meaningful and informative speech that might be expected and only for this one speech, I think it has proved its value to bring a discussion of the ocean's affairs into the congregation scene. True, I discussed my talk on the course of urgency. A senator named the Sea, which is from 2004. I mentioned one thing and another that I believe might revise in the light of our increased knowledge of these matters, which was not available at that time and changed attitudes. As early as 2015, a newly seen senator was present at the highest level. The prime reason to call for such revision and policy of the Generals in the affairs of the ocean when she asked the then minister of foreign affairs, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, 19 March 2015 of policy measures in the marine affairs. There were few answers, but he foretold that he would work on that matter in consultation with the local authorities. Environment Minister, Sigrún Magnúsdóttir. In other words, these policies have been drawn into at least Five years. Let me quote a question of the highest degree. On March 19, 2015, the prime minister says, with permission of the president: I'd like to ask the highest. Foreign Minister: Is there any direction on the part of the Ministry or in the preparation for the protection of the sea, not merely the use of relevant institutions, but of climate change that will affect us as well as others, and will not be the least of the sea. Then I'm talking about acidification of the sea. I'm talking about the temperature of the ocean. And the highest. Prime Minister continues. It does not seem in her speech that this fine course has meaning since 2004 when it comes to evaluating these matters. So I suggest that there will be an overall policy in the affairs of the sea, which will take into account other factors and opinions that we face rather than a demand for the right catch, such as perhaps Icelanders have rather focused on internationally. I was reluctant to guess in the race to finish the talk that I want to ask that this council proposal be sent to the environment and transport committee. After that, I want to thank you again. paritaprevir A Ari Trausti of Guðmundsson for a meaningful and good talk on this subject, hoping that a conquistancy will accept this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u72	A respectable president. I would like to recommend the interpretation of electronic real estate transactions and real estate status reports. The movers this time are the ones that say, The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Ingi In Jónsson and Eymarsdóttir, the daughter of Eymar. The suggestion reads: The General concluded to hide a travel, industrial, and innovation minister to have a legal bill prepared to include a review of real estate sales and orders, No. 70/2015, real estate law, no. 40/2002, and Constitutional Codes, No. 39/1978, with the following objective: a. to help ensure that state reports follow the sales statements of used real estate intended for an apartment, b. that those who produce state reports for property sales will be responsible for the failings of any of their valuables and are not listed in their reports and should have professional guarantees which guarantee the insecurities of buyers and sellers property when their failures lead to reformation, c. to contribute, without making it a direct law, to owners of real estate intended for an apartment, to keep a maintenance diary that gets electronically under the constant number of property, d. that simple legalizations, such as embassies for selling real estate, signing of a contract and buying contract for property electronically, can be arranged using services such as 25thland.is. This proposal is proposed until the fourth time, but it was last submitted to the 149th legislature but failed to succeed. The proposal is now reassigned with an updated report. However, this proposal went a little further into the 148th legion, which is always getting in the way of us here, we are half the time spent at the council by moving back a case that we could have continued on to a committee where changes were ready. Hence, the situation today is the case, so the adjustments should be taken into account. But I'm going to go over the matter as it is now in as short as I can. I'd like to keep it in the form as it is, because it hasn't been cut yet. Businesses with apartment housing are very difficult. They are usually the largest business shared by individuals and families in their lives, and much of their resources are usually below. Investment in house - to - house living is usually also an investment in a home. It is very important that regulations regarding such transactions increase the safety and security of consumers and reduce the damage and unnecessary strife and judicial issues. Then it is important to keep people from experiencing life in delinquency, but any conscious awakening has been about the dangers and dangers of molds. So far, no significant improvements have been made in this field. With the status reports and maintenance journals, however, the rationale and the transparency should be somewhat more responsible. This suggestion suggests that a minister be assigned to prepare some legal adjustments in order to improve the situation of consumers. It is emphasized that housing status will become known to all stakeholders on real estate transactions, i.e. The buyers, traders, and middlemen. This would greatly reduce the likelihood that since business with housing has taken place, secret defects could be raised with the related costs for buyers, traders, and society. It is suggested that there be clear rules on responsibility due to defects not included in the state reports. State reports made about property sales are often purchased by proposals and buyers today. Their access to property is not the same as that of a seller who can produce lower reports, as well as it is unavoidable that two or more bids have both file a state report on the basis of the same real estate. Then there may be some market conditions to leave such reports alone. For example, in a high demand for housing, the prenup for real estate status can be considered as a subsidies offer. While the state report may be among goods, problems and judicial matters can be greatly reduced as a result of the sale of apartment housing. This will reduce unnecessary expenses and reduce the quality of the business. Thus, a buyer would have better information on the quality of the facility in the earlier process and the safety of the seller as the quality and accuracy of sales indexes and other data would be increased. This would allow the intermediate to provide better and more accurate information and thus better service. A maintenance home diary has a purpose comparable to that of the oil diary for cars. A maintenance diary can include information such as when major building projects are performed. This is not expected to be part of such a maintenance diary, but more information on maintenance diary living has been made available to increase trust in business ventures with that property. For example, it would be more in favor of owner, e.g. When a trader comes and makes some updates, replaces the track, or something like that, registering it in a maintenance diary. It also encourages the lack of blackness. To be able to look up this information, even far back in time, also make significant efficiency in the maintenance of real estate. When you receive information about what has been done in real estate, it is usually smaller, and it is very dark. I found myself in that there was some straw in the apartment that had been replaced some time in the past, which no one had remembered and was made in a frequent owner of it before. It had grown up and all sorts of fun things. It would have been nice to know that it had been repaired and that it was different from the other places in the house. One of the main objectives of this proposal is to simplify communication between the seller and buyer of housing as well as landlords and tenants in making contracts and other necessary legalties. Such simplicity is designed to reduce the cost of buying and selling, increase the effectiveness in business, reduce the misunderstanding, and increase the safety of consumers. With electronic solutions such as the isolandis, it would be a step forward in the direction this business is developing. On December 21, 2018, there was a validation of terms of change in Congress laws, electronic transactions, and other electronic services and laws on the extra income of the state's funds, i.e. It's an electronic synopsis. In the bill, it is recommended that the law be allowed to announce an electronic entry which will be equivalent to a plagion declaration. At first, a synonym with an electronic entry will be restricted to a certain type of documents and specific candidate requests. As more experience becomes available in the electronic process, the number of documents reported in the electronic language will be increased. Such trends must be used to improve effectiveness and security and to improve the services of consumers. To illustrate the magnitude of these issues, we can consider judgments that have been taken because of real estate. However, a warning must be made that not all cases go through the system of justice, not at all, and that there are much more cases to be taken care of without judicial hearings being passed. Justice as well as the matters not carried out in court would be expected to decrease significantly over time in the following adjustments. In the process of the proposal, local courts with the passwords were searched for ◯Frequency, both contract purchases, retailing rates, and buying the stocks of domills.is between January 1, 2010 and August 18, 2017, and then the search was updated in this report. The judges or swerves were read to see if in part or in all the wrongs of property were involved. The report shows a chart on this, this is a total of 130 cases of real estate and 102 because of real estate defects. The cost of the twenty-two cases was laid down from 2016 to three. On average, the exact cost of judicial hearings was 1,227,500 k., minimum 250,000, with a maximum of 3,200,000. It should be noted that the cost of the matter is judged only by another person, so the other person's exact cost of the matter remains. In addition, the conviction of the court's charges does not have to reflect the actual cost of justice. During that same period, 15 counts of the Supreme Court had to do with property defects. The passwords were searched for ◯Taxest and ◯goli. I'd like to review the Commission's opinion with the motion change and then follow a story in this case ready for the review of the Committee on the Economic and Business Committee that discussed the matter last time. It says that the committee discussed the case, but reports were received from the Allied Union of Iceland, the Bjarná ehf., the partner of real estate dealers, the Early Army Corp, the Substitute Fund, Örvar Ingólfsson, and the National Congress of Iceland. The proposal suggests that the Allied Council conclude to hide travel, industrial and innovation ministers and Minister of Justice in order to prepare and submit a legal bill that includes a review of the law of No. 70/2015, real estate sales and orders, law No. 40/2002, real estate, and Constitutional law, No. 39/1978. The aim of the proposal is to promote improved consumer protection in real-estate trade and simple communication between sealers and buyers of housing as well as landlords and tenants in making contracts and other necessary legalties. Have the reviewers and guests of the Committee largely expressed support for these objectives of the proposal and for the whole proposal. The Commission's review made comments to the a-committee, which may have guided the review of the law that the users of used real estate intended for an apartment will be obliged to include their state reports. The members of the Committee and the reviewers were generally positive about the change in the state report of a share of property sales data, yet it was of concern that the obligation of the segregators to have a state report for the sake of real estate. Rather, you should look forward to offering such a report as a considered option and then to a standard form with predetermined assessments. - In the suggestion now, it's not exactly an obligation. - The committee doesn't think it necessary to say so strongly that real estate will be required to leave the state reports with the sale of an apartment house. Instead, it will be guided to promote the implementation of state reports with real estate statements. The right to decide whether it will be an obligation to include such reports and how this should be performed will be entrusted to the minister who submits the bill. Then a comment on whether it would be appropriate to revise the a-yield proposal to use the property designed for an apartment. The committee feels that it is proper to leave a minister to decide how to resolve the proposed changes, i.e. whether the state reports are relevant and used - new housing should have relatively prior planning information so that it should not be so difficult, it would not be a direct status report, and therefore it is not updated in the suggestion the way it is - or whether it should only follow an apartment housing or any other place to be added. Therefore, changes are suggested by the Committee's opinion that this substitution will be removed. In the management of the Committee, there was a view that the instructions a- and b-joints might be too precise in the preparation and processing of the state reports. Thus, the goals of both letters can be extended below one and the same letter by simple. Therefore, the committee suggests that the proposal will be changed in the way that the a- and b-a- team will be united and the terms of the b-parties will be simplified. This will only allow the applicant to be responsible for significant defects not reported in the state report but the secretary's order to further expand the work and responsibility of the employer. In the treatment of the Committee, it was a view that it was reasonable for the members of the Parliament to be included in the Parliament's declarations. This would be the goal of taping e - mails. That's exactly what happened since it was written. Here in the outline of how the arrangement was conducted before it is blessedly put into gear, so I'm going to let it go. The reviews also provided a wide range of suggestions on how to consider the details of the proposal. The Commission therefore aims at travel, industrial, and innovation, and the Minister of Justice regarding the e-mail statements, beyond that, taking it as a suggestion and terms for the processing of the bill. Taking into account the above, the committee suggests that the proposal will be agreed with the change as outlined. This supposition for a committee party was before the end of the council, and the committee decided not to even vote to take the matter out, even though all guests had arrived, and much of this was the contingency of the committee. I look forward to taking the case back on my arms and moving on where the committee was gone and completing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u73	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct the changing of fish control laws, No. 116/2006, with subsequent changes. The bill is submitted by a council of reveries, along with members of the council from the Commonwealths of the United Nations and the Pirates. The primary objective of the bill is large and large, increasing transparency in the processing of the resource, their credibility, and, above all, their trust in the sector for our community and for the sector as such, ensuring that the right to use the resource is not too few. This is very clear; transparency, to increase confidence and credibility, and to ensure that the right to use our resource is not on the hands of very few people. The bill has been working on us for a long time in the construction of the woodland, but it has rarely been as important as it is now to sharpen the rules of the waterways. Of course, we all know why, but perhaps first we need to list the newspaper article Hick, which revealed the great economic care that has been prevalent in the seaside for so long. Of course we need to take action, and I'm absolutely sure that, a respected president, if this bill becomes legal, we can take positive steps in order to increase confidence and transparency in this important business of our Icelanders. Those with a large amount of value in the nation must submit to clear guidelines that are reasonable for the nation and for those who work in this article. The rules of the game must not depend on political manuals after the prescription of interests. That is why this bill involves long - term justice. Of course, there is a particular change in the way the marine - road companies operate here. This is a timely change, not a nod. On the contrary, a respectable president, is supporting this change in the present fishing system that has proved successful for us Icelanders. I'd like to underscore that this is the fishing system that was started until 1983. By the arrival of thequaculture system 1990, the proposal was set with the development of a left category in its time, and then the system has evolved. It's certainly not perfect, but one of the wise things we've done is to build on our sustainability and build on this complaint system, with the changes that all members of the council have made, especially in the past. But is it perfect? No, in view of the experience and the development, we make clear the requirements of the modern society that we make up the article that has the exclusive right to the use of all our resources. The changes this bill involves, contrary to the current fishing system, but the system needs to be maintained. It's gonna have to be maintained, so the system simply doesn't break. This includes the changes we are proclaiming in this bill. There is a realistic chance that if we do not do something systematically - good means that there has been no counsel from the government on how to build trust and credibility. It is all in some committees and groups when we know what we need to do to ensure transparency and trust. If, on the other hand, the government and national groups, hopefully with transverse support, do not make any changes. will show you how the system will break up in this area. As far as I could tell, communities and political groups in a town were already proclaiming fundamental changes in this system. That's why this suggestion is so important. It is a positive change in my mind and important and urgent updates where we are sharpening, as I have said, on the plays and that the owner of the resource, the Icelandic nation, has direct access and more specific information about who is actually keeping the right of use. The proposal guarantees specific guidelines that are important for the nation and its shareholders. The widespread possession of these codices itself is then to ensure that, when possessing a certain amount of stock share, more are reached by volunteering to local societies. This ensures that our very largest resource, the fishing resource, does not accumulate on too few hands. Are we stopping compression? No, we've seen that compression and economic development in this article have yielded considerable progress, but it is the key to transparency of state, and when it crosses a particular threshold, we can call it the credible threshold, which calls for the people to know exactly, more and more about these large development companies, it will simply be to submit to the general transparent rules of motion, whether it is through this bill or the rules that society puts upon us all. I emphasize that we are proud of our fishing grounds. He is largely expelled, and in recent years he has made a major contribution to the national structure. The share system is the basis for economic fishing, and this system is then based on sustainable development. This is of utmost importance, and it has led to the very fact that other nations have turned to us about how we have built up sustainable development and have been trustworthy in this regard. Then A Merition Institute counts and we don't pay it. It's weird to see a number of individuals now, including Within the board of directors, the agnostic seeds were observed in front of the Oceanographic Institute when, on the contrary, both of our fishing grounds and also of the fish fire, feeding on that institution because it contributes to the greater credibility of our system. We also know that the resource is limited which means that not everyone can fish for biological reasons. That is why, especially, the fact that everyone understands and knows who are the real owners of the marine export companies and that they have this exclusive right to the use of our resource. It is a spontaneous and natural requirement in today's society, and I hope that men, especially those of the administrations, will begin to respond to this reasonable and normal demand. This does not mean detours. Rather, it is a natural requirement for a modern society that promotes the level of confidence and credibility of the article itself. And what does that mean? This means a sense of destiny, and it trusts the foundations of the article, which will be more profitable over time. This bill allows for breaking up the link that a small group of Icelandic fishing roads have had in the article and thus in Icelandic society. A great concordance has taken place among those who have been given a quota or who have bought it from others. In the management of the Federal Reexamination of the Fish Room published in January 2019, there was a large number of fractures involving the control of linked bodies in the marine road. A review of the terms of the fish management of both authority and the contact of the organisation would be implemented to ensure that the integration of markets could be under strict control. The bill is a factor in this, and immediately following this report, we began to make suggestions in this regard. It is special that as a year has passed since this report has been published, the government has still nothing in the railing, nothing ready to face both the State Review and the public's natural credibility requirements. In current legislation, citizens will be considered linked if, as directed by the Government Accounting, a more significant improvement is being made in other areas but little or no monitoring. The bill then gives a clear list of links where one party covers more than 1% of the total area or more and the other directly or indirectly 10% of the capital or more of the above. It is also clearly stated that persons with more than 1% of the total resources and requirements for the other in order to be expected that the former members may influence the management sector are obliged to inform about such relationships. The bill then contains a new paragraph with a list of over 1% of total resources, or more, it is required to establish and register a partner in a structured stock market. I've felt that people have been worried that it was too low. Well, let's just go over it. There must be a clear requirement that once you have reached a certain percentage of the total share department, things must be more transparent than currently available. Then, a member of the total financial sector of 85-12% could not handle more than 10% of the enterprise's capital or voting rights. It is a fact in all countries that employment practices that gain the advantage of common resources, free of charge or too low, are usually far more profitable than others. This should not surprise anyone. This tells itself, and it is therefore necessary to put a clear frame around the kind of operation that has the exclusive right to a nation's resources. If we are not careful about this, evolution may result in a loss and reduction of trust in the workplace, creating and creating an unwanted environment that can be compared in many ways to what we have seen, including what we have seen. correspondent in Namibia A respectable president. In a sense, there has been a period of confidentiality between the fishing field and the growing nation in recent years, especially during the past few months. In my opinion, this government has also been particularly effective in promoting the precise and visible failure of this trust. It is possible to take the latest example in which her proposal for reduction of hunting fees was adopted by the government categories and, indeed, the Middle East. Our proposal for restoration, including The time-separation of markets, a key element for ensuring the national right to resources, was dropped. They've been twice and our suggestions, including which can be thought in experimental terms about the mackerel, to place part or all the mackerel on auction to obtain a legitimate and just price for the mackerel, has also been dropped. That is why I say that this government has been particularly good at promoting confidentiality between national and professional sectors. This proposal here is, in our opinion, one of the most realistic solutions to the restoration of confidence in this article, to improve the implementation of the structure, to require widespread ownership, and to make it more clear to the maximum extent possible for individual or linked centres to control. As I underscored earlier, this is not a suggestion for counterclockwise changes in the cry system. Rather, it is a sharper set of lines, sharper rules, and clearer requirements for using the nation's common resource. So it is in my opinion that this law has never been as important as it has ever been. There is much at stake that government demand that those who handle our resources do so in a transparent way and that money is returned to national preparation, that it is clear who actually gains on the seaside, that it is not one - sided and under a few persons how the profits are divided by a common resource, and no monitoring how it is. Part of the breakdown of confidence and the slight transparency is to form a loud demand for sailors whom we experienced clearly in the sailor strike, where there is a lack of faith in the shape of fish prices and how they form on the market. Of course, there is a lack of faith when the salary of sailors is hanging on how the price will be formed. There is far too little transparency in this important industry, and we have to contribute to more. The restoration has since the formation of the party spoke for open and transparent systems in the fishing grounds and agriculture, and we have not stopped. Our motto is that we choose public interest, not special interest. We choose liberal, not conservative. We choose transparency, not hideout or secret thinking. We choose open, clear, understandable systems, not closed. We believe that in order to reconcile the fundamental systems of society, there is a need for sharpening these rules. It's all been made up. It's been down to the year 2000, with the results of the resource board on how to implement the resource budget and set regulations in the constitution. But nothing has been done, and this is no coincidence because weight has been placed on account of stakeholders in this article. The matter is always up and down, although it is often a rich will for the council to do better. I'd like to say that in most classes, men would like to do better in this regard. In this article, suspicion and distrust have been too much overcrowded for a long time, and now there is a chance for us, including ours. through this matter of ours, to take a closer look at the article that is so important to us by putting the interests of public interest ahead and putting ahead of transparency and the values I believe and fullness of the nation's pride. I realize that some of the people who can and will go up to their backs during this bill's donation. I've already become that tangible lip. There are undoubtedly some who will do anything and have the content and weight to stop the bill in the treatment of the council, and that is also an old story and a new one, but I ask us to step back and keep the overall picture in mind. It is the interest of the fishing road that we continue to develop. It is society's interests that we try to ensure our normal requirements for transparency and fairness in connection with the seabed. These aren't just some phrases, we're here with some suggestions on how we're getting close to this, very specific suggestions on how we're going to get it, how we're going to get the transparency and credibility in the fishing road. These suggestions have a precise bearing on the matter. These are not just some phrases. They offer suggestions on our part. While ensuring proper distribution and distribution of property in the sea, and thus trusting his future by ousting him openly, we will and will continue on, although it is not directly related to this bill, speaking of a natural price for the exclusive use of the resource. Of course, we will follow up on the fact that there will be some registries and contents that we will ensure that, in fact, we will. temporary fishing rights as a basis for the use of the fish resources, thus ensuring the nation's true right to this resource. The resource policy as it looks today is not a game. Although I still want to say that I believe that we're going to win it better, it's only showy. Maybe I'm a little bit of the Polos here, but I'm going to put my trust in the fact that Prime Minister will want real changes in the constitution when it comes to the resource policy and will allow it to go, not whether the government will stick together for the Constitution, the outcome will be that we will have a real resource law in a constitution, not some provision that would trust the connection between the institutions. We don't need it. Today, there is a unique opportunity to take important and decisive steps to change the constitution so that something will be available for our offspring in the long and short term. According to this, I would like to allow myself, a respectable president, to make a recommendation here at the end that this bill will go on for the treatment of what? Work committee and through 2nd. Of course, I hope that it will bring about a good, rapid development and discussion there. It is my sincere hope that we can gather to put our property on the scales to increase the level of confidence and credibility towards this nation's basic work so that we can see that the people can be confident that we are here with suggestions that actually promote advances in the seabeds and repairs for the seabed that pave the nation's rights. It's a justice issue for an Icelandic community and, in fact, the big message in the bill I'm here measuring for. This is our chance to solve the fishing business with the public's best interests first. This bill focuses on the debate on choosing a public interest rather than a special interest. For a number of reasons, a respectable president, I think it is right to say both now in connection with this bill and also what may be happening right now: for Iceland and Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u74	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the change of damage laws, No. 50/1993, with subsequent changes (missitive development and failure). A moving man in addition to me is Inga Sæland. In 1st. says: ▪ Instead of the word "Present " (U.S.) " (in English) 1st. 1.mg. Section 15. The law comes: pay number. Two. states 29 C.E. The word of the law goes like this: The values of these laws are based on the pay index as it was on July 1, 1993 (13,3) and are taking the same change as stated in Article 15 of this magazine. In the 3rd. states that after the 27th century C.E. Let the law show you a new article under the title "Gaffare." It says: The funds should be given to those who employ a case in recognition of physical harm due to injury or to appeal a case in order to demand payment on damages due to physical injury without the terms of 1 mg. 126.g. Treated Privately, No. No more than 91/1991. In Comb 4. says: ▪ This law already comes into effect. In this section, tailored to pay development, it says: The compositing laws aim for the development of fiscal values on a credit sheet. The credit sheet is the low - price calculations, the index is used only to determine sums of damages. In view of the trends that have developed in terms of the standards used for price analysis, it must be considered as an urgent need for repair laws to be changed so that their sums will be adjusted according to measures that are generally used in the evaluation of prices. There are two criteria to consider, the index of consumer prices and the pay number. As 1 mgr. This is the case with a year's wage for damages and damages. Section 6. and 7th pars. damage fixation. When permanently evaluated, disability is largely seen to the effect that disability has on its ability to earn income. Therefore, there is reason to reference the pay number when the amount of money is permanently determined. A credit card number could be stopped in April 1995 to secure new financial commitments, but the index price for insurance was used instead. The credit card was 3,282 points at a level of damage repair, but it now stands at 9,290 points. As a result, economic damage laws have increased by 183%, and today the minimum balance of the annual wage is 3 mg. 7. Act 3,396,709k. and for 74 years and older 1,132,236K. This amount is considerably lower than the lowest salary in a general labour market. As salary increases above prices, the protection of the damage laws has reduced the lives of people who have not been fully employed in the past three years before an accident. These include: Young people who have not worked full - time, mostly at home, and older citizens. The average total income in 1993 was 1,236,000. of 6,641,000. in 2018. So these groups do not have the same protection, and the damage laws guaranteed them in validation. The remuneration rates were 131.3 points, but 695.2 in September 2018, they have increased by 529%. If the money of the law is in line with the current pay sheet, then the minimum limit would be 3 mg. 7. increased by 66 years or less from 3,396,709 k. of 6,53,694 K. Prior to 74 years and older, minimum targets would increase from 1,132,927 k. of 2,117,898 k. The increase is 87% across the minimum endpoints presented in Table 3. 7. The law. As a result of this change, the laws of damage would fail to provide those with a low income comparable to their protection. The chapter Gjafund states: ▪ It is often a heavy burden for individuals to appeal to judicial matters because of a physical injury they have suffered. Thus, they may prefer to accept the compensations that insurance companies may initially offer and yield to the rights they feel are theirs. In order to stem this business problem and thereby improve the security of those who have suffered physical harm, it is suggested that individuals be able to appeal to cases due to recognition of damage or payment caused by physical damage, regardless of their financial situation, by expounding their right to failure. Progression is 3 mgr. 126.g. track No. 91/1991, for private treatment This bill takes a small step toward correcting the damage laws. The scavenging laws have become very old, repetitive, and a child of their time. It's long since it's time for a complete review. But what needs to be done right right now is not being done by school students or older citizens, or others who do not earn money, about the right to get the right to pay for their damages. If we look at the damage laws set out in 66 years of age and younger, we are worth 1,200,000. In annual income, that's 100,000 bucks. per month. Each person sees that these are ridiculous numbers. However, the more ridiculous it is that at 74 years of age, the equivalent is 400,000. a year's pay, that's $30,000. per month. It tells us that something is wrong and that something needs to be done, and it needs to be done right away. Another factor that is intolerable in the law today is that individuals who suffer loss may prepare for a long waiting period of compensation. The process can take from two to three years to less than 10 to 15 years. It has to be said that for normal employees, there is a serious accident, whether it is a work accident or a traffic accident, basically a check for poverty, a check for entering the insurance system, a disability system. The insurance companies are enormously strong, they have enough money. They have lawyers and doctors, and they can keep things quiet back and forth to time indefinite. It's intolerable in this context that the people who are going through this really have no right to get abduction to fight those money-crowded societies. There's been a law that says people have the right to pay for physical injuries and to be affected by road accidents and physical harm. In itself, people would need shock help. But what happened? It's not the first shock. The shock will follow as you realize that you have entered the insurance circle. You've come to fight for your money and you'll be set against the wall. People may be invited 10 to20% of what they are entitled to. Thus, many people take it because they are not pressured and unable to fight insurance companies. It sucks to know that at the same time, we have a so - called credit fund, or insurance fund, into which insurance companies are making money. Tolerance, the victim of damage - it may be 100 billion. K. into this fund of the subject's social security number. Then it's written, and maybe 20% of it, it's 20 million out, 80 will be left behind. These 80 million become a budget without a shepherd, as the late Blöndal Bjord said they would in time, in order to increase the financial value of insurance companies. The most amazing thing is that this has been in the past for many years, since the introduction of damage laws. What is even more surprising is that no one has done anything about it. In the North and elsewhere, it is only considered morally appropriate to settle this fund every five to ten years. In view of what has happened, it is incomprehensible that these matters have not been done. Let us look back in time to the collapse of the bank when Sówvá, the credit fund of that insurance company, disappeared from the country. He went all the way to Tortolia, probably ended up as a luxury apartment in China. Then came he, as a pledge at the bottom of the pool of Elphune. It was his destiny. There it was, with billions of dollars, damages to individuals who received only a fraction of it. It's also amazing in all this context, in damage rights and everywhere in this system, that the insurance companies seem to be able to buy anything. They can buy the conclusion that the person was never in a car, but he was in the other car and therefore had a low energy wound. So when it turns out it was wrong, the person was in the car that was devastated and completely destroyed, they say, "It doesn't matter, it's equal." You can say: It was just an infection or something. Reports show that it was never an infection, but the damage is done because the individual has to prove the lie, proving that the insurance companies lie. It takes a lot of years, and the weirdest part of it is that there are sick people out there trying to fight it. Yes, it may have a lawyer, but it won't get a nurse. A man's applying for an application to the Ministry of Justice. It says: "No, no, no. " It tells you that you are not being treated for the presence of infection. It says: It was just too small because you were in the other car or something. And then it's just taken away. I studied at the time who were members of a shrimping committee, and it is not surprising that men were on a parish committee at the same time when they were directors for, for example. A student owned by a Cathedral? Is that normal? This is how the system's built up. I'm just saying, for God's sake, while it's like this, be careful out there, both in traffic and at work, and everywhere else. You think you're loyal, you pay the highest insurance fees in the world, but you're loyal, you get damage done? Very unlikely. Not unless, in part, I don't know. How to play things is remarkable. For my part, I say: How on earth, as we have seen, could the insurance companies be put on bail? I asked myself that question, and I began wondering how it could have happened. The only explanation I received was that they had ever been evaluated for financial illness and therefore had the right to disability. I may have discovered this most by accepting 3.2 million for temporary loss of income. I would never have received that money if I had known what I knew two years later. About 1,200,000 k. I had a tax. Nearly a million to the insurance agency, and then the insurance company came and took a million because I had been paid by the insurance agency for this million. Both the insurance agency and the insurance company took away a million because of the same million that I had been paid by the U.S.A. That's when I was in zero. But let men know that this was not sufficient. I was titled a high-priority tax report. I lost my child's compensation, interest improvements, so I'd come back to your 500 to600. K. In a minus. What was I supposed to do? Did this come back to you? No, because when I discovered this, it was too late, I couldn't press charges. I took this case all the way to the Supreme Court, and the strangest thing was that the Supreme Court said: It's all right. It's just the law. All I'm saying is, who made this law? Was it General? And if the Council did, what road was it? I ask: How on earth can this institution create laws that are tailored for certain societies to make enough money? It must tell us that there's something far more than little problem with this system. It is absolutely necessary to review these cases completely, but to introduce this change into the system immediately. We must also ask ourselves, " Why has the Ministry of Justice, Minister of Justice, not updated the numbers in this regard? ' Why is the system abandoned, so that money does not follow the pay? I began to think, " Is that a coincidence? ' I say no. It's a broken system. Then we're going to the insurance company. It's also the cracks. Then we go over to the medical system, and it's like this. It's being added here and there, but this pisses all over. And who are always the ones who bleed? The public. The people who should, especially the people to whom this system is to defend. We're making laws, and we pay huge amounts of money every year to secure us, but for some reason, with all their money they get through this system, these comrades manage to defend themselves vigorously. And who will help insurance companies to defend themselves so strongly? Yes, it is. A parish Committee of Justice. Why don't we ask: "Why is it really the state with the Department of Justice, which is to protect itself against it, that I am afraid to tell you that people will not be accepted? " How, on the other hand, can a panel of parishion Committees, which are present at last be administrate when it is known that the matter is past? You must ask yourself: " What is the purpose of a case that has already been adroited? You bring it before the courts and the courts say: "No, you've already worked, you've had a lot of money, and you've had your evaluation; it's been evaluated; it's been saying, "Yes, it's a lot to do, you're supposed to get this a lot of failure, and this huge financial disability, it's been caused by this accident--but it's taken all too long, it's been over. You must also ask yourself, " How is it possible for an insurance doctor - the insurance company to assess the damage, pay him - to walk out of his living room in a town in a land hospital, get some medical stories, pick up whatever he wants, and abuse them, even lied? ' When you take the case to Perlon Protection, there's a violation of personal protection and all, and you take it all the way to the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court says, "It's all right this time." I say for myself, and we must agree that these laws protect insurance companies. I thought these laws were bad laws to do harm to people. No, it seems like a law to make sure that insurance companies don't have to pay damages. I'm not going to have this much further, but it tells itself that these laws need to be passed. They need to be revised from A to Z, making sure that children who are injured, children we know have a bright future, not just 100,000 bucks. in a month for the rest of your life. The minimum wage in this country is 300,000 dollars. We say to a person who is 66 years old, "You're done anyway, a hundred thousand bucks. " is enough for you. The minimum wage is still 300,000 dollars. What kind of disrespect is this? How on earth are we going to explain this to students who have an accident? They will be evaluated in 100,000 credits. in monthly incomes, 1,200,000 k. a year's pay. In a student who is studying law or medicine, he will accept it if he is seriously injured, and his health is finished, at a maximum of 100,000 dollars. the rest of your life? It's just a check for poverty. They're saying to these people: You just live in poverty. What is remarkable is that these individuals are, for example, individuals. Doublety in cars, both as drivers and also as insurance insurance in the car, professional insurance, and loss of income, but that is not enough. It doesn't seem to be enough. That is why I also ask, and that question requires a minister of justice at any given time to answer: Why is there nothing wrong with this? I will try to demand their answers. I hope this case has some progress. From past experiences, I'm not super-violence about it, and then it becomes clear just what the situation is, and whether the government is against the normal citizens of this country who are entitled to damage and who have paid their insurance, or whether it is on the side of the insurance companies, and continue to reduce the benefits so that the insurance companies could expand. Finally, I refer the case to the General and Education Committee, hoping that there will be good coverage.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u75	A respectable president. This will discuss a bill for a fixation of damage laws with subsequent changes (required development and failure). Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson for delivering this case, for an informative speech and for an excellent piece of paper. I thought this matter might be addressed to a welfare committee, but it's not. I want to, however, that without extending this meeting much, a respectable president, it is clear that what has been said here is very important that those who have an accident get the benefits they have just moments and readily and that the criteria are, of course, the period since an accident and until reforms are paid, but it is not necessary to pay compensation, as follows, far back in time. It's totally unacceptable, and I think it's very important for us at the council to take a case like this to treat and consider the right of individuals. When individuals are dealing with insurance companies and financial institutions, as in this case, they are often high on the bank in order to achieve their rights. As shown in the front row of debate. Many give up that way. That's why there's a proposal for abduction. I think it's worth a lot of money, and of course it needs to be taken very carefully whether or not people's circumstances, social status, financial status, and right at the start of the case, that cases are not put out of the mind until all the rocks are shrubs from the hands of that person. I hate to hear of such things happening, and it is very important for the committee to consider these matters carefully, to look at the consequences of these guarantees, how they handle the insurance in there, and each percentage to improve to those who have a right to them, in fact, is to the harm done. I still want to use this opportunity to thank you for the bill. It is a step in the right direction that we should have taken long ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u76	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He'd be happy to agree with the abduction request, which is just great. I wanted to get that in this discussion, just for information, that if an Icelander gets a desire to sue the insurance company, and he wins the case, the insurance company is going back to the state fund, so the government fund is not going to lose it in itself. In most cases, the person works. If he puts the case in court, he'll get some benefits. So we're not sending an account to the state fund for the rape. There is something else that we must realize as well. If we make up this ransom fund, which is tens of billions of dollars a year at regular intervals, there's a lot of money, we can, for example. use the money to promote the Grensás department that responds to badly injured people. We can also strengthen the health system. We need to realize that when we get caught in a traffic accident and get inside the health system, the insurance companies pay nothing here. If a foreigner is involved in an accident and is guaranteed to be a city insurance company of the foreigner's hospital costs and everything else. Of course, there are massive amounts of money related to road accidents and other things, hospital costs, and so on. It is totally incomprehensible that they have not been made available, that these funds go to those who work in rehabilitate people, that they get this money, and that they are used for good things.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u77	A respectable president. I don't have much to add, I think that me and what. One prominent speaker would just agree that there is a work here that needs to be done diligently and diligently. This is a matter of taking a close look and setting this matter straight. This will be considered in more detail, and the committee will likely do so. I'm impressed with the source of knowledge. A senator of these matters has discussed it many times here at the council. I am very grateful that this case is presented here. There are many who have hurt to tie up and who have become ill - mannered about the business. A senator has talked about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u78	A respectable president. We do not need to have watched politics for a long time in order to witness dramatic changes in the way climate is spoken of in the community, and especially in the palace wall. It is enough for us to look back at 15 years in advance to find examples of ambitious action in the climate world who were told to paint the devil on the wall of the Assembly Hall, and ten years ago, this was still the case whether Iceland should take over the same responsibility for solving climate problems as other nations or not. Then people said that Iceland would be looking for parole in line with those obtained in the Kyoto Protocol, where Iceland agreed to multiply its emissions at the contract's commitment date. But now the second century, and Iceland has agreed to the same commitments that other countries have made. In 2012, climate laws were set aside as a turning point in the Iceland government's way of making the country a responsible party on a global level in climate. Thereafter, the law has been updated several times, now last year, with a clearer role added to the climate Council in line with a decision adopted at Congress 2016, as well as a legal basis for a regular implementation of a government strategy to make in climate change. Now these issues have gone into effect, and even if they had been before. But as I went along with it, the situation did not look so good 10 to 15 years ago, so we may well be able to cope. The bill here is about sharpening the role of the climate council. The plan is in accordance with Article 5. The law's key role is to provide government support and counselling on the policy and objectives of Iceland's policy decisions and climate-related goals. What I suggest to be added to the law is a clear part of merely trying to promote whether the government's climate action programme meets the policy that governments have declared that they and the international commitment of Iceland to climate. What next achieves this goal in the current law is the Council's task to study the preconceived state plans that affect climate, which is far weaker than the role I offer here, but I believe that there is good reason to speak with this project. The examples are addressed to me in terms of public finances, significant numbers, where financial council is assigned a comparable role in a financial program proposed each spring. In accordance with official financial laws, financial and financial policies should be evaluated on the other hand, on the basis of baseline laws on public finances as well as on the enormous financial objectives of the public. This is an important part of the fundamental structure of the public business and the need to enact public funds when it was legalized in 2015 to ensure a general and objective discussion of government policy. A financial body was probably not appointed to the head of any government minister, for it was the financial minister himself who suggested that it be a maintenance factor to himself at that time, but simply to improve the discussion and to build trust in the procedures surrounding the legal process. I believe that comparable independent and objective consideration of the proposed measures by the government on climate is a key factor in government policy, much like the plans that concern government finances. The first climate action programme proposed by the seated government covers the year 20183/42030 and has been repeatedly presented as a fully provided strategy. This is a good phrase, but it would be even better to be able to bring up the neutral assessment of the climatic Council of climate as to what it means to be fully funded, what the results are, and where to do better. However, in the introduction of the programme submitted for a year and a half, it is reported that it may be difficult to assess the likely effects of individual action as well as costs. This may be an initial problem in the implementation of climate-related measures so that the next action plan will work better. It is, of course, that in chapter 5 of the Management Plan on her milestone, it was considered reasonable to submit a plan that covered a specic but practical area so that something could be submitted immediately to the fall of 2018 and then could be reviewed when Iceland's commitment to 2020 became apparent, which took place in the last year, and on which basis further implementation and strategy could be provided, would have better results and measures would contribute to the spread of Iceland at its considerable commitments and goals. Again, this is something that would be desirable to get a report from the climate council. Take it, for example. The funding of the current government action programme for climate change is that about 4 billion are spent on carbon binding, which is only a small part under the commitment of Paris's policy, 1.5 billion for transport energy exchange, half a billion for climate funds, and 800 million for various measures. There's two mains. It is energy exchange in transport, and it is the main means of making good use of pure energy cars. Overdoses have been taken to equal the scale of the scale to that of fossil fuel cars, which are not as acceptable as the clean energy cars, but of the more than 6 billion that are expected in this program for five years, as I said, 4 billion or two thirds of the carbon bond that is not part of the global commitments to which the plan of which to be covered. The carbon binding is a high price paying and results, not just in climate matters, but in biodiversity and other positive side effects. But here it is immediately possible to think about it, and it would be good to have it simply documented from the climate control board, whether two thirds of the powder being spent in the Action Programme are protected from international commitments. In addition to concealing this new role, the bill suggests that instead of reevaluating the government action programme on climate matters every 4 years, it will be reviewed every two years. This is in line with what seems to be an experiment with the present government but is also something that reflects the urgent need for progressive ambitions in climate and will also cause governments to sit here for a full four year term, they have to submit two strategies at the least, one shortly after they receive and others in the middle of the term, where they need to show more ambition than in the first. This, hopefully, will enable us to get our ambitions to the point where we can accept it. Regarding the need for this legislation, I would like to quote the introduction of the climate action programme, which says, by permission of the President: ▪ Hopes are available for recently formed climate advisers to provide government support to clear up this action programme and to promote discussions and cooperation on climate change in general. If this bill of mine is legal, we will thus achieve, not with hope, but with clear instructions in the laws that I consider more solid ground to build on when we are talking about plans of the importance involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u79	A respectable president. I present a proposal for a hearing about a cultural hall in the South, which reads: The General concluded to hide the minister of Education and Culture in the search for agreements with the Santa Society of the Year to complete the South American cultural halls at Selephoss. The treaty will go into effect in 2020, leaving the hall no later than at the end of 2021. This arrangement was submitted to a 149th legislature, 290th case. This case has been a long way around. It is up to 30 years since the construction of this hall in itself ended. It stands as part of the Hotel Selphoss, unregistered. As the report shows, completing waste in this culture hall will be estimated to cost from over 300 to 400 million. K. Of course, considering the construction of new cultures that have been inhabited in many countries is not a large amount of money. But there is a desperate need for housing in the South to provide the high level of culture in it, and this proposal has been repeatedly pointed out to us by both the transfer and the conduct of committees, the financial committees. The project is now in place for a five - year financial program. Now, it is important for us that the final steps in making this project, as indicated in this report, be taken in this year so that we can start working. This is an important cultural project that calls for quick decisions. Of course, this in itself costs 300 to400 million, as I have said before there is not a large amount in the context that such a place of culture would cost from the foundation. Shelphos has become the hometown of the South American civilization. It is an enormously powerful culture, and by completing this hall, it would meet the great need that is not only in Selephoss, but also in the surrounding communities that would certainly be useful to the facilities available there. I'm not going to have this in myself any further, a respectable president. The movers of this proposal are beside me. Councilmen Páll Magnússon, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Karl Gauti Einar Hjaltason, Birgir Þórarinsson, and Oddný G. Harðardóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u80	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the talk and the initiative to make this fine matter my whole mind is supported by one of the traveling representatives. Senator. But I wonder what. Perhaps a senator wanted to remind us of where the work was going. How long would it take if it were to start immediately next week, let's say? We've been through this together by the council members of the South District, and we see that there's a lot of work to be done. Of course, there are some things left, and the question is, How long would it take if the budget came right now, whether it was? A senator knows that. Otherwise, I'm not gonna extend this discussion much. I just wanted to ask about it and immediately thank the senator for the initiative in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter for the inquiry. I'm afraid it might take just a few months. If we were to agree, for example. For spring to do this, I could believe that a year from that time, this hall would be finished, even sooner. We've got chairs, we've got a stage and a pit, and this room's in the middle of a big building, all that's unsettled. Such miracles are now being performed in the construction of houses today, and I just heard it coming to the council today that a local community in this area is about to build a soccer house, expected to be 120 times 90 or 100 yards or something like 4.5 billion, and it's going to be ready within a year. Building speed has become so relative today. I think there's a plan for everything. Something may need to be revised there. But I think we could see this hall coming in use, maybe not at the end of this year, but very early next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u82	Mr. President. I'm with an importer at this council-sense proposal right now. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson has arranged here and, of course, I support her whole mind. It is a pleasure, Mr. President, that the matter seems to have been moving in recent years, but it has been on the program for decades. Then I noticed that the matter was on the agenda for a government meeting on January 10 of that year. and hopefully there's a good sense, and finally something going on about it, and the Sunnlanders see to it that they have a beautiful hall to house all the elaborate cultural activity found in the part of the country. Just a year ago, the highest level of observation was made. The minister of the hall and then expressed it in an interview that the cultural hall of Selephoss was one of the best - kept secrets of the South, but the hall has kept very tight for over a third century. On this occasion, the highest light was declared. THE prime minister's optimism is that something will take place in the affairs of the hall. Mr. President. Of course, we do not want the hall to remain some kind of secret but rather that it will be complete and become the center of culture in the South. So it would be hoped again. I saw it in a financial program for 2019◯2023, as shown in a report on this matter, that preparation is planned for the construction of cultural houses in the province of Skavetir and in the River Valley region, which is worthy of completion first of what has been done before it is continued on the road to implement a case without finishing it. Of course, it is amazing that over a third century C.E., the cultural hall of Selephoss was raw and incomplete. He's very well kept, and he's really fully equipped to be loaded and finished. He can take over 300 people into his seat, and it has a big stage and a basement under this area. Of course, in the hope of something taking place in the case of the councilmen in recent months, the sanctimonious councilmen and ministers have entered the U.S. Marshals and Ministers for the past few months. Many others have fought for the hall, and by the end of March 2017, the Southland cultural groups were formed. Of course, it should be unnecessary, Mr. President, with a government project that is counted, not for months or years, but for decades or even part of centuries, to complete some government building. That is absolutely unacceptable. According to one report, it is assumed that the room will be held in perfect standing at 300 to400 million. As long as they hope for a handsome donation from the state. I'll agree with a concierge, boy. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, that this doesn't count as much money to go on like this requires an assignment as a cultural hall, because it stands unused and has been in operation for a long time. All you have to do is finish it. This is important, not only because the population has grown greatly, but because the South is a center and has been a long center of culture in many ways, both in sports and in all other cultures. I was there the last few weeks ago at a big chess festival, against the World Champion, and I was well along in all places. I also see in advertising and other developments that present nonstop cultural events, which, of course, need to be more noble than they are now. There's Fischer mansion, located in Selephoss, and I think our country team in handball is largely responsible for the athletes who can run their families and practice to this location. At the end, I would like to recommend that this case be rapidly treated for committees and that it be prepared for us so that this matter can be concluded, with which I rest my mind and hope to have a happy ending.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u83	Mr. President. I recommend this proposal for the resolution of a four-year plan for the benefit of consumers in the years 20213/4.2024. With me, this case is open to you. Councilmen of Oddný G. Harðardóttir, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, Sæland Hailand, and Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. There are three main objectives proposed by the Council to ensure the better interests of consumers by the traveling, industrial, and innovation ministers. It is the aim of an efficient consumer environment, the aims of information sharing to consumers, and the aims of consumer rights. This proposal was presented to the 145th legislature but is now submitted by law - to - law modifications, including those made. due to a new law on consumer judges who were approved last year. The aim is to offer suggestions that aim to improve consumer interests quickly, and it is quite clear that in the coming years, governments will need to respond to many consumer challenges, whether it comes to globalisation of the chain of production that makes monitoring complex, increasing network stores, or crime of consumers' rights. It is also so that in some cases the traders do not know the right consumers and much less the consumers know their rights. This was shown to be true even in the first century. In a survey conducted when this case was made last in 2015, many did not know the difference between the role of the consumers clinic and the consumer Society. It was only true of 18% who claimed to know the difference; more than 80% could not distinguish the role of these strains. A consumer clinic is an official surveillance agency, a free social organization. More than 58% said they'd go to the Nite Owl if there was a need for help for a conflict, but only 18% to the Neighbours lab. It is important that consumers know this difference, that consumers' clinic is a surveillance agency and its main role is to observe and monitor consumer rights and safety products, monitor business practices and promote market transparency, oversee the legal and practical indicators and implementing them as a means of conveying information to parties on their rights and duties. The consumer organisation, on the other hand, is a free organization that has since then given consumers all kinds of advice and assistance in seeking their rights to the seller. The State has made a service agreement with the organization for some of its services. The network also plays an important role in the services of consumers who buy services in other European countries, e.g. via European consumer support. The latest changes were made in 2005. At that time, a consumer spokesman was established, and the Nite Owl's office formally took over the work of a law firm and part of a part of a project that was formerly in the Contestation Organization. In 2014, consumer spokesman was laid down. Here's a proposal to redesign the role of the consumer agency to see if it is right to change the Agency's work field so that it is acting as some kind of consumer agent with a negative role model that would have been clearly defined. The consumer agent's office has been appointed to be founded and partly designated for at least In addition to other consumer protection projects A report on consumer protection in the 2013 financial market suggested that this route be carried out and that most of the suggestions here are based on it. It also requires full independence from this agent and comparable authority sources and elsewhere in the North countries so that an agent can perform intensive surveillance and increase the awareness of consumers to provide competitive management. He must be independent of his work and have a largely voluntary basis for research, especially in a financial market. There are also other suggestions that will be given to the consumer agent, including factors directly involved in consumers. That will be the main subject of the new consumer agent's new office. The regulations in the 2005 laws that are more direct to consumer interests and, in the basis of competitive rights, will be taken from the law and monitored for them will be brought to other institutions. Of course, the collective influence of consumer agent and the office of agent in debt may be considered. At least. proposed that a detailed cooperative agreement be made between the EICs and the current part of the Federal Bank, i.e. The F.O.S., to ensure this exchange of information. Here is a review of the purpose of the proposal, and I'm just going to skim on a big one and then refer to the Senate resolution. As I said before, it is based on three goals. First, it is increasing education by consumers. We all know that free markets have an important role for consumers in supporting the traders. Therefore, it is important in our opinion that consumers are informed and have skills that enable them to make good decisions. Of course, this is because everyone knows their rights, their sense of merit, their doors on markets, their advertisements, their financial locks, and what to look for in the event of a disagreement with the segregators. To that end, governments must work and ensure that consumers have this access to information and are generally instructed on consumers. As we all know, there has been a lot of discussion about financial lock in schools, both in elementary and higher schools, and there have been studies, and in February 2018, the minister of education and cultural culture decided that Iceland would be included in the selective section of the PISA study in 2021 that turns to the financial lock of 15 years of students. The second point of the proposal involves increasing emphasis on sustainable and responsible consumption. In recent decades the attention has increased to consumers' responsibility and the importance of being informed about the origin of products, as their consumption has a wide range of impact on the environment. This has resulted in large increases in production of consumer consumption from developed countries to poorer countries where the cost of production is lower, including due to less pay and less demands on environmental protection and protection. This requires that consumers be very informed, in what way they can affect their choice of product and service. It also supports the UN's worldwide goal, which speaks of responsible production and consumption, as well as of the government of other countries. To that end, No. 12, to ensure sustainable consumption and production. To achieve the aim of the proposal for increasing emphasis on responsible consumption, the movers submit this proposal to set up a task group with the aim of developing a plan for consumer education. The plan needs to take into account the above global objectives of the United Nations. It is also important that consumer instruction about responsible consumption reaches out to all consumers rather than just students. The management board should also start a project to bring to the attention of sustainable consumption. Third, we refer to prices. The consumers have a clear right to information on the price of goods and services, and it is important that the price label rules are followed and monitoring is effective. This four teams explain how the couriers of this case suggest that it be followed, and I refer to it. It is important to review, update, and introduce due course rules. We know this now when the sales are at their highest post of Christmas that people have received gift letters and things that have become a stumbling block when people come back and change their lips. It is important that the rules are consistent, they are reasonable when it comes to returning or changing goods. This increases the confidence of consumers in trade users, and it can and will have a positive effect on the trade in this country, except on their own protection by consumers. The rules have, for example, some place in place, such as a 14-day return right, that you have to have a boxing note, etc., sometimes you have a possession code for a year, but they should all equalize for four years, i.e. a letter of gift, but it is a law that sellrs have not always followed, such as. about the time of gift letters and when sale has begun. These rules are overly complex, and we should try to fix them. How important it is that they serve both pointed and understandable for all so that they serve their purposes! The United States has taken the longest step in ensuring consumer rights in this area, and in California, for example. For example, when writing a letter of gift is forbidden, you might conclude that the seller has already received the money into his business, and why should he cancel the funds offered by the buyer? Transporters suggest that the duration of a gift letter will be established for four years, that is, the traditional expiration date, which increases consumer protection and is not burdened by sellers at all. Of course, we know that shopping may vary from time to time, so it is good to make good use of the cash or the gift letter, not holding it too long, and encouraging people to do so during this time of the year. This is also suggested to collect special loans on consumer loans prohibited. As a result of this arrangement, we feel that the cost of borrowing should be included in interest of interest paid by the consumer. This refers to loan costs, both fees and fees that the consumer needs to pay on the basis of a loan agreement. It supports the results of a report on consumer protection at the financial market in 2013, which speaks of banks, apartment loans, and other consumer loans in accordance with the consumer information rights to explain exactly the cost of loans and the basis for the price paid by money. Finally, a respectable president, we suggest the establishment of a controlled prices view of financial markets, i.e. A website where information on financial services is provided in a clear and accessible way. There are some pages in the air, including. Aurbjörg and Herborg, who take up some of this information such as mortgages, card service, and savings, but we want it easy to compare important aspects of financial resources to individuals; insurance insurance, all sorts of savings, mortgages, etc. as is the custom in our neighboring countries. There's a decision board on business with a financial company and it works according to an old agreement. We feel that there is a greater need for clarifying the position of the committee, and as a result, an agent of the Generals. A respectable president. We believe that the changes proposed in this synonym will lead to improvement in consumer interests and, in particular, clarifying the arrangements of consumers. I certainly hope this proposal gets a start here within the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u84	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis of the management and protection programme for the fairy and goose institutions of Iceland. Transporters, along with those here, are Guðmundur Inngi Kristinsson and Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffsdóttir. This proposal suggests that the Allied Council hides the Environment and Resource Minister, in cooperation with the EEA and stakeholders, to provide a management and protection plan for the feel-and-proven institutions of the whole country. The secretary will submit a report on the Plan by March 1, 2020. In Iceland, there are three kinds of goose, gray goose, platyhog, and helgis. In addition, there are two kinds of goose visitors each year, ladies and gentlemen. In recent decades the population of goose stocks in northland regions has grown dramatically and is now at its most historic level. Since 1950, the common pagan population of Iceland and Greenland has been 20 times as high as 500,000 birds in the fall of 2015. Increase in food supply, especially in cultivated land, contributes to the growth of goose stock. The elf is a common lay bird in many parts of the earth, both in lowlands and in prosperous areas, with pools and lakes in highlands. The powder has been constantly growing in at least 30 years, and in January 2015, it was estimated that there were over 30,000 branches. Since 2013 Iceland has been a member of the Convention on the Protection of Birds and Wetland Birds in Africa and Evrasia. The Convention has taken measures to protect wetlands at their places of meeting, and it covers a number of birds that lay or have a place to farm in Iceland. On the basis of the contract, the state may decide to work on the market size of birds that damage crops. AEWA has undergone a series of strategies to influence the size of European goose strains, including For the heathen, and for the gray, and for the dead. In 2012, for example, the year 2012 had been the case. a plan to reduce the size of the Svalbard strain of pagan eggs in Denmark and Norway in cooperation with the Netherlands and Belgium to approximately 60,000 birds. The goal was two years later. The aim of the program for the Svalbard strain is to maintain the population size in 60,000 birds in order to minimize the damage caused by the crops and vegetation in Fredorm without decomposing the stock. As a result of the consumption of aluminium and goose, farmers are causing financial damage, but this problem is not confined to Iceland. In 2016 a report on damages caused by aluminium and goose in 2014 and 2015 was published by the European Commission. During this period, farmers were able to report their damage electronically through the town square. The results of this report showed that the damage caused by the spoils of birds was the most important thing. In most cases, there were more than one species of birds that harmed certain farms. It was noted that far more damage announcements were received in 2014 than the following year. 12th degree. General Legislation Regulation for Agriculture, No. 1260/2018, a source of permission to provide support, according to Article 9. Because of the waste of aluminium syrup and goose in farming land. In accordance with the requirements, the European Commission decides whether or not to use the Member State's labour agreements for this support. According to the report, many farmers have failed to report damage, since in recent years little has been achieved to get damaged or improved, or to obtain appropriate measures to protect waste. Most farmers use skirmish to protect themselves from harm in their cultures. Experience shows that birds are quick to get used to their births, so they do not work as they should. It is clear, then, that long - term solutions are needed to meet these challenges. Transporters believe that, on the basis of the above agreement, there will be a plan for the management and protection of aluminium and goose institutions in Iceland to reduce the damage to farmers due to the use of aluminium and goose. The programme needs to ensure protection of the strains. To ensure the achievement of the management and meta-analysis plan it is necessary to improve the data collection of the case in order to assess whether the measures to be carried out on the basis of the programme meet the desired results.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u85	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for making this proposal for interpretation. It has long been a problem in the countryside, as one traveling overseer is aware of, as shown in a report, that, in particular, faunas and, of course, goose also remain a permanent problem in the field of farmers and have been a long time. This problem has grown, as shown in the report, particularly with the aluminium stock and also the pagan lock stock, that there is a high rise in the population of these species at least Pagans. By 1960, the land was lynched with 3,000,◯5,000. Five years ago, they were in line with the latest figures I see in this report of 31,000 and probably more today than they were five years ago because of the fact that so many people today find the word. They're grouping. There's hardly a handful in the countryside that's so insignificant that the pennies don't put themselves in positions to start a wargle in it. In view of this, my question is for what? The senator, whether it was an option to bring a bill or a suggestion to simply lift peace on an aluminium and allow limited fishing on an elf for expert advice or for some kind of quota as controlled by reindeer weather.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. The report following the Council's Dissolvement Directive has established what was done in 2012 with the Armada in the pagan goose population in Denmark and Norway. This consisted of reducing the number of birds by half, from 120,000 to 60,000 birds. Hv. A senator asks if there is anything he can do about the aluminum. I think that in this council-sense proposal, there's been an appeal on the faunas and on the bachelors in this country. The number of apples has increased excessively, and this is also true of paganism, and I think that is the case. A senator will agree that some measures must be taken. As a majestic, beautiful bird, this has long been at peace but is a thorn in the eyes of many who are defending their land. This is a huge problem in many parts of the world, so I think that if you go into a good collection of data and think about what you can do, it's the only way to reduce the wing by some means.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u87	Mr. President. I appreciate that answer. We agree, then, that she has grown so much that she has become a problem in many countryside. We agree on this, and we need to stop it. It sounds like a reason. A senator would agree with me on that. As I mentioned in my question earlier, I can see that some kind of dinner could be assigned to hunters that they could now fish in some area, as well as so many elfs, possibly by age, i.e. The younger bird. I don't think it would be a big deal to take a smaller wing like that and keep a good eye on it. Of course I can also understand that this proposal is going on with plans. Let us hope that something comes out of that which happens quickly, that this will not be tolerated, and humans will simply be allowed to bite the sweet apples to lose much value in the mouth of these birds, perhaps unpredicted because we don't have the courage to take a stand to reduce the size of the overgrowth, only to decrease to the aluminium stem because of the overgrowth of the population on land. It's obvious. I remember when I was with the businessman at Selephoss. It's been a long time since, but that's when the aluminum population was probably half the size of today. This was a real problem as farmers were unable to spare their money or reduce their size. There was no advice, for, of course, it was uncivilized, as it were. A senator knows. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator at the end whether this management and protection program will then be carried out that there will be a limited extension of the peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-21-50.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for meditation, as well as the question he raised. I think it's safe to say that we agree on this one - I'm not gonna call it an aluminium warbler, though some may allow it. Indeed, the purpose of this suggestion is to try to control the bird's stock size, and it needs to be made intelligently, to weigh the damage caused by them, etc. I think it is quite safe to say that in some territories drastic measures must be taken to protect against damage caused by an elf. We also see that the pagan goose has increased greatly. We didn't see pagan goose in the lowlands 10 to 15 years ago, but now she's even driving her gray hair away from her tub. This must be mastered because it is not justified by the prospect of having someone turn blue at the expense of others. Surely it is something of value. When men analyze the size and problem, I naturally hope that by means of this concierge, one will do something about it. If this is the result of the collection of data to include excessive increase of the aluminium, and this applies to the pagan population, it must only take action to reduce its number.
