ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u1	A respectable president. In those days, we are in a situation that we do not really know. But these are situations that we have to deal with, and that's why we're in a situation now that we can't talk about me and you, me and you, but we're all in this situation. We must come together, and especially as the situation is today, with regard to those less fortunate in this society, people with underlying diseases, the worst of which have been because of poverty in our society. The Health Committee has reassigned, and Iceland's Family Help has begun distributing food trays. They're being helped and good things are being done, but more is needed. They also need to help people out in the country, since there is a large group that also needs help. We need to be careful that fear does not take control of us. A mental - health aid has opened a telephone to help, and we must also be careful not to become overly involved in isolation and divorce. Sadly, in all our isolation, we are trying to protect our senior citizens, we are separating a couple who are not good. This can cause both anxiety and more problems, so we must think only of those who have been remembered. Hence, we are under obligation to join together. We showed it to a welfare committee, and we can show it at Congress that this is not the government or the government, it's all of us who have to deal with this. Now is what we have to do, stick together, and make sure we deal with it, and solve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u2	A respectable president. The daily affairs are different today than they were yesterday. As simple as going to the store is completely different, and people don't quite know what to do with such important traditions as birthday parties and funerals. What happens next month's match is a bigger question than usual for an enormous number of people, and that question is pretty big at all. Today, we've got some bills to help answer questions. They are not complete answers, but answers are very frequent, especially when situations are difficult and difficult to predict in the next few days. Could You Explain? Yes, of course. But can we give better answers? No, not now. Remember, everyone is trying to do their best, their government, and their council. Teachers face tremendous pressures to pursue the education of our children in this condition. Families are in a huge program game, since it is almost full of work to monitor all reports of organized school and work. I don't trust myself to try to explain what health care professionals are doing, I'm not good enough to say a word that is reasonable enough. But what I can say is that no one can do their job better. What I can say, however, and refer to general history is: It's gonna work out. During an assembly, ordinary people, like everyone else, have children and families. Our work is to make decisions based on our convictions. We can't do it all, but we can do a lot. We cannot do the work of a healthcare professional, but we should be able to ensure that health care professionals are there. Dear senators. Let's do our best and whatever we can to make it work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u3	A respectable president. These are unprecedented situations. In the rescue forces, people are nearing a task of great uncertainty by often using the words that it is time to bring out the big sledgehammer. Then we will respond with everything we have in the armory to approach the scene that needs to be drawn from different directions with possible means. Under these circumstances, it is time to bring out the big sledge in society, and it is really necessary. It is important to look to many factors. We look at important projects that need to be dealt with in the business, in the community, and in the company's pay, making sure that the shock will be minimal, that companies will be able to maintain recruitment relations with their employees, and that we will be able to cope with the temporary problems caused by the virus. Yet, more is needed. Long - term attention is needed. It is important for us to accept this position as a reminder of how important it is for a small nation in a large country that builds on rich natural resources to look for other aspects of what our economic system is building on. We have a unique opportunity to do so. Now is the time for us to look to ways in which we can increase and stimulate employment investment in areas of interest and potential. We need to look for a time to replace strong, difficult rulework. We need to put it in full priority that those who can make investments and build jobs can, like, name it. salmon plus all that the government can do on infrastructure, but especially, we need to look to our jobs, we have to build up our electricity, build up salmon, and the motivations to increase optimism and stimulate investment in our jobs so that we can come out of these problems as the most powerful amateurs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u4	A respectable president. Today, we vote for two basics that come from the government and take care of a large group of people who are expected to have any disturbance in their daily lives, another bill that grabs those who land in corporate contracts and, on the other hand, a bill due to temporary payment on people who need to be diseased. I'd like to use this opportunity to thank the welfare board for good coverage and a lot of work on the case. It was one thing to get this case through as quickly as possible. With the support of the government, there was a more advanced and more powerful operation than was initiated. Covid-19 is expected to pass over here in months and the government is taking care of the situation. There is a possibility that there will be temporary interference with the traditional lives of the citizens, but the government's policy is to minimize them. The people's cohesion is important, and it has shown this by applying the guidelines given by publicists and surgeons who are extremely important. That's how we get down from this fall. When the dust sets, it will be possible to get fully involved in promoting the job. Will be even carried out with the measures that the government has proclaimed, as in a powerful market campaign for tourism and thus in line with one of the largest business roads in the country. It is also known that spades form new occasions, as was evident in the final crisis. The nation's vessel will be right, and that is what all of us know of who live on the land of fire and ice and who stand together now and again. Today is the time of spring. Now is the day and night of equals, darkness and light. Tomorrow is the day. Hope is that spring birds will soon be heard. We can keep the certainty of such strange times that we are living in today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u5	President. It is called an event that will be at 7: 00 p.m., where the Icelanders are encouraged to take a doorway, go out on a balcony, go out on a platform, and pet a health care professional. This is a model of events on Teneriefe. On the occasion tonight, the president's permission states: "The health - care worker in our country is surely to be commended for all the unselfish work it has done these past few weeks. I'd like to add that when we started studying the health status when I fell into Congress in 2013 and were making budgets for 2015, all the health authorities said that there was a need for them to ensure patient safety. When we examined the situation, it was found that everyone expected that the health system would go down, that we would not be able to maintain a first-class health system after the collapse. But that is what our health - care providers managed to do. Thus, despite the incision, which is understandable and is necessary to a large extent, first - grade health systems were maintained. The health care provider held up the system. It's just that we can trust our health care providers, we can always turn to them, and we can rely on them to do so. Still, it took the first medical strike in history for doctors to have an increase, costing 4 billion dollars. to increase their salary. That is why there were laws on nurses' strikes in 2015. That was a warning about human beings. What's the situation now? We're reaping now, and it's time to spit. At the same time, Iceland's Fég Nurses tells us that another failed negotiation has been held two days ago between the National Social Relations Committee of the United States and the Communication Committee, responsible for the Supreme Opportunity. Secretary of finance. [[The president calls.]] This is not welcome. You need to negotiate immediately with nurses. But tonight at 7: 00 p.m., we're going to go to a doorway or to a balcony and pat for our health care providers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u6	V.E.G. President. We live in incredible times, unprecedented in modern society, and let us hope that what this nation is going through will strengthen it and will lead to a growing sense of cooperation and cooperation with people in the future - something bright, for at least I have full faith in it. But what is it that we can rely on in these difficult circumstances? One of these is our own agricultural production. It is good to know that this is the production of milk, meat, eggs, and vegetables that we can rely on and should be available for consumers, and it does not require complete trust in other nations. Milk, eggs, and vegetables are produced here every day, and meat supplies are good. Products and farmers will do their best to ensure that food distribution becomes as smooth as possible to ensure that products are available at market level. It is also of interest to note that in this condition the store is calling for growth in the agricultural system to develop in vegetables. It was published on the morning paper site this morning that the shop agreed to have scored to the highest level. To promote domestic vegetable production in the state's reporting procedures for the state. In this letter, according to the report, it is more likely that the world's production of vegetables will be drawn together and that transport will already be delayed. The store has a new tone, and it is evidently ready to join the farmers and the people in the country. The person here expresses support for these ideas of shopping. They are to use this opportunity now and into the future, promoting national production and agriculture for the benefit of the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u7	Mr. President. It is hardly surprising that we, along with the inhabited earth, face a complex and far - reaching problem. Happily, we are so lucky to live in a society that in many respects is well - equipped to cope with today's loss of life. At this point, there is widespread uncertainty, and concern over the whole community is caused by the health, safety, and survival of people and businesses. It is the obligation of governments and politicians to reduce anxiety and fear of health and survival. The health and public security system has been successful, taking action and dispensing information to the country through careful management. That is priceless. It is always a problem to control and to exercise power, and this problem is growing when complex problems are faced, when drastic measures must be taken, and when society's activities need to be taken into consideration. Hence, it is urgent that we do not forget, and especially the government, that under these circumstances government and government opposition must meet to shape the measures to be taken. We all hope for the best, that we are likely to lose weight and even years of putting everything in order. The result will be at the table of politics, and therefore a solid agreement must be formed as to what to do, or there will be an even more difficult political debate that will not improve the situation. Mr. President. Therefore, I encourage the government that has put special emphasis on the work of its administration to increase the way and respect of the Generals and to strengthen the availability of government work to check our next steps and to ensure that all of us will be able to adapt our actions and actions. [[The president calls.]] It's best to go that way, and that's how we get the best results and the best way to deal with the problems we face.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u8	Mr. President. Of course, I'm going to discuss the same thing as most others do in this discourse, i.e. The situation of the crown epidemic. However, my discussion will not discuss our health measures to prepare the epidemic to increase the weight or pressures of the epidemic on the health system. There, the medical professions stand together and perform outstandingly well. It also reveals the value of the public defense system, since it has an elevator every day on the air. I'm not here to discuss economic decisions because of this. It spends the night preparing for the work and the nation for the tragic events that are obviously coming. It is important that politicians from all categories come together and work on this not only during the council but also in vast cooperation with the local government. I'm going to talk about the third thing, social consequences. I'm going to talk about the loneliness and isolation that many people feel these days. People naturally fear to be around other people, and there are a lot of people, especially older people, who now live in fear and isolation, and my speech encourages communities, individuals, and the entire government system to try to help out and find ways to break up this isolation by some means. I hear that a lot of people, partners and others, are trying to do that. Many of the things I have seen are well done, but I fear these consequences in particular, that in the end, this long - term consequence is that people are isolated. We have to find ways to break them down.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u9	A respectable president. As many members of the council have entered, we have unprecedented times, but just at such times humanism breaks up in us, and we show that we are important to one another. This has been observed on a welfare committee that has worked well together under the firm leadership of the Chairman. She has made up two extremely important issues over the past few days, which are taken care of by the committee on solidarity. The committee has cooperated with the adjustments and adjustments needed to make the situation as well as possible. What a fine example! The government also takes its action in a very important way. They don't all come at once, because we don't know from day to day what the situation will be tomorrow. The steps taken, however, are focused on taking the person at any given time gradually. That's extremely important. The public should also be grateful at such times, for thousands of people become infected to protect their fellow citizens to ensure that the spread of the epidemic will be slower than it would be. This is extremely important. There is also reason to thank the members of the Parliament for their reactions and contributions to the current position. All hands on deck, and here everyone is working on making things work. What a fine example that is! Together, we will get through this crisis as well as any other crisis in which the people of the United States have come. It is a pleasure to see, and I reiterate it, Mr. President, that here in the house men stand together and work together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u10	The president allows himself to agree. The senator's appreciation for the staff of the Generals, as the prime committee had in its approval yesterday to give the General staff special thanks for priceless work under difficult circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u11	Mr. President. It's new now. There have been 1 0 or 11 talks here, and I can say in a way everything that all speakers have said above. That doesn't happen every day. For this reason, though, I have to say that what has happened over the past few days has been successful in the work at the council. Of course, this has been a matter of opinion and has been tried to solve it so that everyone can be reasonably at peace with it. It is important that the way we act on both government and government is in such a way that peace can be maintained regarding the steps we must take, as possible. It is not excluded that opinions may be altered by some action taken, and at some point it may be necessary to cut any lumps in this relationship. While each of us may not be able to agree on the conclusions in all matters, while we may be able to discuss things objectively while working in some careful way to resolve the issues that we face in life, it is extremely important that we work things out so that all of us have the same view of our goals, even if we may have some way of identifying matters. Of course, the work of the Senate will be subdued because of the subjects we face. I saw in town that when they said that the Council's work program had been unplugged, some understood that the council had gone home and that nothing was going to be done. That's a misunderstanding. This means that the regular work will be different and new. But we deal with the issues the council faces in this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u12	Mr. President. It is unusual times that require unusual action by the government. The old crisis measures, using money policies to reduce the growth and financial resources needed to build roads and bridges, are not effective on their own. Meetings are essential for goals and ways, in consultation with the government with the opposition, with an overall workforce and with rural society. What we do now affects the way society will be put to straighten out the cow after the epidemic has passed, and this also indicates how society will develop for a long time. Right now, people in the country are thinking about their health and their loved ones and how the medical system handles the problem when more people are infected. Worried about the economy comes later. However, governments must be ready immediately to address the economic problems that will clearly become big and the measures must be both short-term, due to conditions that improve once the epidemic has passed, and for a long time, because it will not all improve itself in a few weeks. We were dealing with downturns when a pandemic hit, making the decline even deeper. The actions will be related to the survival of people and businesses in the country. The procedures will be health, infrastructure, and measures will be relevant for the future and will cover the terms of an elected period. We in the United States have tried to promote our ideas through a committee of economic and business committees, with articles in magazines and online entries. Our emphasis is on protecting people's work, welfare, and health for a short and long time. This is the joint assignment of all of us elected here at the General Assembly. Let's do this together, but we need to talk too.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u13	Mr. President. First, I'm going to say thank you for being delivered to the Icelandic medical staff. I believe it is necessary for us here at council to deliver clear messages to these extraordinary people that we will ensure that at least There was no lack of funds to cope with the dangers we face. Here, in the following days and today, in fact, over the next few days, it is our job to ensure that economic measures will be taken to secure the economy of Icelandic and Icelandic households. Clearly, they are vast. Of course, the late bank plays a large part there and has already taken steps that will be extremely important. Here today, we will hopefully agree to the Department of Social Affairs on unemployment-improvement bill in Iceland as well as the companies. And during the following days, further and extensive operations will be presented. But it is also clear that we must be ready to take further action in the coming days and weeks, since the situation will change day by day. At times, we may need to be quick, making decisions here, without occasionally considering differences, because our pace is important, and we need to be careful about it at the council Hall, and we are called on to resolve matters quickly and carefully.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u14	Mr. President. Like others, I thank the senators and the respondents for making things work here in our society. I'd like to introduce to you that we're going to do two things today that are of considerable importance and, in fact, very important importance. The second matter will take place, including in those who have the right to pay. The budget seems to be going up to 75% of the employee's salary instead of 50%. We thank the Commission, especially the government position, for having received this through the rise in proportion. However, there are companies outside this house that don't have money for the 25% listed. It is an enterprise that earns no income, many with no income, and will not earn any money in the weeks and months. Since these companies have been in investments, they likely owe a considerable amount of money. We need to meet those groups. What we need to do now is make very big and quick decisions. First, we're supposed to provide payment for all, both homes and businesses - right away. We have to do it now. If there are any tools missing, we'll process them afterwards. We need to do this one, two, three. In the long run, we need to cancel our insurance fee so that our companies can foresee the future. We should take steps and be prepared to dislodge the index price if necessary. We're supposed to be ready for this. There are a number of measures we should be prepared to take without having to ask ourselves whether or not we will be able to move until we have announced and decide what we will do. They need to think fast, tight, and firmly, and for this reason the government's opposition is ready to cooperate with the government if the conversation has not yet been presented. We're ready, we've got lots of ideas, and we're ready to get them to the table, and we're trying to solve these matters with the executives, if that's the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u15	Mr. President. It is at a time like this that will reveal who we are and who we are as individuals. It is obvious that right now, and in the weeks ahead, the time will come when we who have to make decisions for everyone else, or most others, will have to make very difficult decisions, complicated decisions. We need to deal with a very complex solution, undeniably following the conditions in which the whole world is living. But it is also in times like these that reveal the need to listen. It has been observed by more than one government official that the management force is willing to cooperate with the government, to help, to do good, to handle matters quickly, and to handle matters quickly, but also to demand that he listen to practical suggestions from the government's side. In this regard, I would like to remind you of an announcement recently sent by the Central Party into a number of teams that discuss matters that could be of great benefit to most people. I would also like to encourage that when the largest measures are announced, the government will agree with the government's opposition and introduce to the government the suggestions and plans before they are made public, e.g. ... ata press conference. I think it would be a good thing for all of us to work together to the difficult work that lies ahead. Let us not be fearful, let us look up and look ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u16	To answer, financial and economic ministers, Justice, Education and Culture Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers, and Tourism, Industrial and Neoplasmic Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u17	Mr. President. It is safe to say that the people are waiting for the government's maximum action pack. A minister of education called an economic air bridge in the Castlight yesterday. In addition, in the months that follow, we need to get ourselves over the worst fjord, and first we need to organize a fireball from the bottom when the virus fire has been defeated. No one political party has all the solutions, but all of us have something to offer. With our close cooperation and the help of our most skilled experts, we can get out of this crisis. Each group's cooperation has been more hoping in a welfare committee, and she has worked day and night so that action can be taken in the interests of employees later today. In these last days, government and government proved that when we are under pressure, we are working very well together, and we really need to continue doing so. In Norway and Denmark, all groups met the operations listed at the beginning of the week. All classes were taken to the table and therefore share responsibility for the action to be undertaken. In this way, the operation will build confidence in the people of the country, and I'm sure that this year the people will want to see that all the representatives of the country hang onto rivers. Tells you the highest. Budget Ministers do not prefer that all classes work more closely, but is now being treated with the large package of action, or does he see any obvious defects or obstacles to doing so?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u18	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for the good tone. A senator here beats on how to react and how to cooperate on important solutions to the problem. We've had to work day and night for the last two weeks, actually, to monitor the trend from day to day and to evaluate practical measures to respond. There are a few things that stand out. There is a massive drop in income in the private sector, which, of course, will break up in a government drop and the government will be the same. We have entered the council with a case, and I agree with what. A senator, who has successfully managed to cooperate with every category of committees in the committee that have received this matter under discussion. The delay in paydays is also important at the beginning of this week. I see this in the most extreme ways, so that the actions the government will introduce, which the government will want to put before the council, are basically somewhat predictable: we need to respond as a result of the payoff. We need to consider the security of the people. We need to consider that when an enterprise loses free money, there needs to be some funding in order to bridge the period we hope to become as strong as possible. Similarly, it is already time to consider how we gain resistance. In fact, there will be a ongoing task that will not be solved in the next 24 hours, but we should start that conversation. So, basically, I would like to contribute my view to this that this conversation can be very well arranged through the Congress of handling the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u19	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance for an honest answer. It's a disappointment because I believe that the sooner the government's getting to things and puts its own things in the bag, the better and the broader we get, and the more likely we'll remember all the community groups. We are advocates of different groups and ideals. You see, it's not about the highest. Secretary of the budget, please. paritaprevir Bjarni Benediktsson, or Logi Einarsson. It's about the people in the country, and in view of that, I think it's really important that we get here and put on the punch, not just to take over and react. To this end, my name is that the Conspiracy will still put everything it can to work objectively and in cooperation with other groups to obtain an acceptable solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u20	A respectable president. I would like to state for this reason that the situation that has occurred here in the past few days puts the government's responsibilities to offer ideas of response. I think that once the initial reaction becomes clearer, there will only be better space during their therapy, but more likely because of the next steps that will be inevitable, in order to improve this conversation. I pronounce myself completely open to form a broad solidarity over the main lines of government response. I think it's a long way ahead. It's not good to predict this precisely, but we haven't seen the bottom of this box. We hope to do so this year, and there will be many issues yet to be discussed, both at the council and possibly before the council talks come up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u21	A respectable president. Recently, the highest was introduced. The secretary of the budget of the government's seven forces in an effort to strengthen our companies in the country because of the terrible pandemic we are at war. Now all the wheels of the industry are stopping. Here, 11 years ago, 12,000 families lost their homes in an inflation fire. The public, the people of the country, is not only afraid of the Covid-19 disease, he is also terrified of losing his home, that his loan is mutagenic, his property is on fire to inflation. We stand stronger today to cope with this disaster than when the crash struck us. Nevertheless, I miss seeing no special programme to ensure that insurance will not yet be able to reinvent, insurance on the price-settling loans of homes with the same disastrous consequences as after a collapse. The currency supply is about 930 billion, and we're doing amazingly well. So I ask the highest. Secretary of finance: What is he doing for homes? Is he gonna deal with this? Will he see to it that the people out there can breathe slowly, know that their loan will not be mutated, know that they will not lose their homes? Is he, for example. Are you ready to unplug the insurance if the inflation goes up? Is there no plan to deal with this problem, and do we have nothing to learn from the collapse?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u22	A respectable president. I agree with that. It's about people, and in the end it's all about the homes and conditions of people living in this country. However, it is obvious that in Iceland's private sector it is becoming a massive loss of income and that people working in the private sector in Iceland face a much greater threat of unemployment than is the case with e.g. People who work in the public sector. I can agree with that with what. A senator would naturally ask for security, inflation, and such factors. I've just got the answers now that we can't see right now that we're facing a real threat to inflation. There is no anticipated obstetricitis due to falls or elevation in foreign markets. There are, in fact, some who play with us against inflation, e.g. It's a big reduction in oil prices. Now the lowest price on oil is very long and the home is quite strong. Our first action that has already appeared has been in order to protect this domestic position that people can, for example, be able to do so. maintained pay as much as possible despite having gone to a lower employment rate. That's what we've been working on for the past few days at the council. Finally, I simply remind you that the Councilman works according to the price of inflation. It hasn't been deactivated. There is still an inflation goal, and the Councilman will soon apply himself with the means of control he has. To achieve that goal, we need to support the Federal Bank on our efforts. Last of all, I'm going to draw attention to the high proportion of people in this country who have taken an unscrupulous loan so that if they do become real, they'll get worse. A senator speaks of this as much as a reason to look to that person. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u23	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I want to agree that like the Boy Scouts, we must always be prepared. I would also like to help him see that those who have securities on loans are usually the ones with the worst severity, the financial burden that makes it possible for those who have the lowest salary and who are the worst in this society to take such a loan. At the same time, I would also like to ask him if he will not support the highest force. Social Affairs and Children's Ministers in strengthening the health support board, Iceland's Family Help and the church's relief work so that there can be continued and that there will be something done about government insurance agencies for those who are in a position today not to drink, not for alcohol, not for food, not for drugs, and are in isolation. Of course, this is a terrible situation, and unfortunately, people are in this situation, and it will be no better. It takes some money to make sure that these people do not stay behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u24	A respectable president. I agree with the importance that a relief organization can continue to perform the vital work they do for society. I reiterate what I've said in the past, that we do the right thing in this situation in supporting the future and being able to get through the period by various support measures. Some of these actions have already been performed. We've been discussing them here in the last few days. There are measures such as postponement of pay days and the State taking part in ensuring people who have lost employment ratios through the part-change process. There are many other factors, and we will need to evaluate the situation every day and every week ahead and adjust our actions according to the circumstances. We hope to perform very soon with the main lines of the next steps.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u25	Mr. President. According to 1991'law on bankruptcy, loans, both individuals and businesses, who are experiencing serious financial difficulties and who want to try to establish a new financial system can seek permission for payment. In a report with a request for a payment stop, including published by the creditor's detailed report on what causes his financial problems, what they represent, how he intends to solve them by means of a warrant for payment, and by whom he has consulted for help. It is, therefore, not simple to request a payment stop and meet a rigid requirement. Two. Section 12. The law speaks of the factors that make it a local judge is obliged to refuse authorization for payment. Thus, if the debtor's scheme of measures is not considered practical or probable to establish a new system of financial matters, he must be denied. In other words, the tip of payment is designed to solve a situation in which a debtor will take certain measures to solve financial difficulties. Today, we are living in an unprecedented situation in society as a result of epidemics, and new places arise almost every day. It must be stated at the present time, Mr. President, that it is almost impossible for companies and individuals to specify practical measures to obtain an approved payment centre as required by the law on the current situation and the uncertainty ahead. So I want to ask the highest. Minister if she believes that the current social situation falls under the above conditions of the law, i.e. that companies and individuals who suffer temporary loss of income due to Covid-19 and the government's actions meet conditions to apply for payment? Can companies and individuals apply for a payment stop based on the epidemic Covid-19?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. Of course, this may be considered after making sure that all who can make certain payments and others have made sure of it. That's what we've been doing lately. But it can be considered, whether it is needed to simplify the law. A senator in particular refers to the need to do so. However, the measures taken and are being prepared now aim for a certain payment, which will hopefully make it necessary for those who do not have to be paid off. This is something I'll have to consider, but it may not be mine to judge exactly what was. A senator referred to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u27	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The minister and the satisfaction of memorizing that a minister is willing to consider this matter. I would like to encourage the government to take a serious look at it and bear in mind that they can change the law so that these resources will be potentially active during the present situation, i.e. that the individuals who face this situation, which will certainly make many people, will be able to conform to the law of payment. I think it's very important that governments keep this in mind and that this is an arrangement that will soon be used in case of need. Finally, I would like to use this opportunity to remind me of one group who has completely forgotten the discussion here because of the circumstances in society. There are people and people on unemployment record. That's about it. Some 11,000 people have unemployment records, some of which are losing their rights and looking for a job today. [[The president calls.]] They are in dire circumstances financially. I think it is very necessary, Mr. President, that there will be a serious consideration of extending time as in the collapse, i.e. right to unemployment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u28	A respectable president. A second talk may not have raised a direct question. A senator, but we are just evaluating all groups of this process and will continue to do so as the process goes on, how much effect this has, how far this situation will be. We are together on this project and on the particular matter of payment on a matter of opinion, if that is the case, something we will consider. Like what? A senator says this will affect large and varied groups in the community in different ways. What we try to do is protect them and find out where we need to step in, where to change the law, where to need more help than less, and where we may not need to change the rules. This is one of the many things that will come up, and I'm sure it will. A senator will be on our side to the changes that may be needed at any time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u29	President. Our nurses are on the front side of reducing the human and economic tragedy of the crown epidemic. During the time that our health - care providers are the most important staff in the country, the U.S. nurses tell us of yet another fruitless negotiation with a financial contract committee. Secretary of finance says, "The anxiety epidemic will cost us more than 100 billion. " So I'm asking the secretary of finance how many billion if he finishes his contract with nurses today? Does it cost less than 4 billion? After the first medical strike in Iceland, the government of Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson and Bjarni son of Benediktsson finally made a deal with the doctors of 2015 that cost four billion, but they imposed a ban on nurses'strike, even though it means the same thing as a contract with doctors. Yet, there are twice as many nurses. Although this would result in a lack of nurses, they imposed a ban on nurses'strikes. There's no nurses. The working conditions are so bad that many educated nurses do not function as nurses. I'm going to ask the people to watch our secretary of finance. He had the authority to negotiate with nurses 2015, but he rather agreed to a ban on their function. He has our power to negotiate with nurses today. Residents are better off living, and the next contract is at hand. Thirteen today. I'm going to ask the people of the country to listen to our secretary of finance. I want to be able to trust him in this matter. How much does it cost to have a deal with nurses today or this weekend?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u30	A respectable president. It's taken a long time for negotiation committees to come up with a number of contracts over the past year, I'd like to say, less than a year. The state has made a large deal recently, and it is very sad that we have not concluded a contract with nurses. On the part of the State, it emphasizes the agreement between parties, with, of course, varied implementations for individual classes. We hope to make a deal with nurses as soon as possible. I was very sorry that the General, not the Secretary of Economic Affairs, but the General, had to agree to the last strike with the argument that was presented there to protect health care in the country. In fact, the conclusion of a court case was very close to the demands of nurses, but it does not change that this led to disappointment. Right away. A senator asks about the cost of the situation today and points to the 100 billion numbers, I just want to reiterate what I've said in this room, I've only said that it was obvious that the state funds would go over 100 billion and well that. I haven't predicted where the cock ends, and I find it really impossible to negotiate with nurses in any way this year or to negotiate with doctors since then. We're negotiating in a certain amount of space that we believe was shaped by the biographies agreements and other contracts with other government employees. Within this framework, there has been a contract bid for the contract board of the state. By going outside the agency, you may be violating the premise of other contracts, and negotiations with other classes need to be restored.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u31	President. Times have changed. V.E.G. A financial minister repeatedly points out that from day to day, adjustments are needed. The P.R.'s emergency status has been declared since the biographies were agreed. This means that it must be possible to displace this internal value to send a clear message to the community that we are not going to leave our nurses with an incomplete agreement compared to the current situation. The conditions of the medical profession were so poor at the best of times, before the epidemic, that many nurses who had already been educated as such - there is no need to educate themselves as a nurse, it is a long, difficult, and expensive study - do not work as nurses. Surely, we need to see that our response must be different. I believe that all the people of the country would support the highest. Secretary of finance in finishing these contracts as soon as possible, and not in internal value. [[The president calls.]] I didn't get the answer to that question, but I need it. It took 4 billion to finish deals with doctors. What is involved in meeting the needs of nurses today? How much? We need to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u32	A respectable president. I simply don't have an accurate number to express how much it would take to meet the demands of nurses. But I would point out that we've been negotiating with other health groups, such as a medical staff. We've been making basic changes to work in shifts. In recent contracts, the shifting arrangements have made great changes, and similar things are discussed with nurses.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u33	You're not going to do anything?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u34	The statue of the workweek is one of the priorities of most public classes. And if the world was just this simple, like a cool. One senator says that we could refer to the situation, saying: "Now we're going to take one group outside, maybe a fine start would be that all the other classes that would not be required to benefit from what others have received beyond their reach, first declare it and promise the Cabinet Committee that there will be no other agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u35	State it over.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u36	It's never happened. It's just the reality of these things that people make up their own agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u37	A respectable president. What may be most beautiful about this small community of ours is the setting of the times in which all of us come together, as we all do now, and help us minimise the spread of the virus, minimise health damage caused by the disaster we are experiencing. You can feel so good that despite all the uncertainty and fear in society, the nation stands together as one person. It matters a lot, and we also feel that it is a requirement that we here also stand together as one man in response, both in terms of the great health problems and as well as in the economic woes we are dealing with. She'll be a great deal, it'll be a great blow in the short term, but it'll follow us along, too. We're both waiting for a huge task, but we're both in the long run. It is so important to keep in mind that we are really working together, that the more part, which eventually controls a considerable extent to how much he has the smaller part in it, informs the less part of the scenarios that are being worked on, and why these actions are taken instead of anyone else. So I insist. Secretary of finance and government to further the discussion. There has been no exemplary plans, especially with regard to the economic actions we know are beyond the corner for introductions, but we have not been allowed to see anything inside. It's fine to keep that in mind. Let us learn a lesson from what happened during the collapse, where this very same situation became deeply angry. We know that of this challenge, there will be damage. [[The president calls.]] People will suffer great loss and harm, and this may result in intense anger. All of us here work together to prevent these things from getting out of control.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u38	A respectable president. I want to thank you again for this tone that I hear at the council on the will to cooperate with us on major and possibly difficult decisions. I hear what they're saying, that they've been wanting to get a little deeper together in the last few days. I really can't tell you that other than that, such as. In my Ministry, it has been necessary to spend a night with a useful day simply to cover the situation, evaluate it, and gather for proposals. In fact, there has been a total minimum body of agreement within the government and at a national meeting this morning, many ministers were seeing for the first time the development of ideas and governments having the opportunity to converse with one another. I'm all willing to do what's called a partnership, but when the Board of Directors operates as much as they do these days, they e - mailed me by information. 2,30 a night, which is worked just 24 hours a day, is a challenge. I hope that after we initiate this conversation on the government's first proposals following the issues that have already appeared there will be a little bit more space to see at least several weeks into the future. But we are now in a state of absolute emergency with a strong plea for action, and we need to respond to it. I just want to state, because earlier this morning's work was spoken of as the importance of a public presentation of the government before it is made public, that I can confirm that it stands to sit down with the government side before proposals are made public.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u39	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of this answer, and rejoice that it exists. I have full understanding that these are unprecedented circumstances and unprecedented measures that we need to resort to government matters, hopefully indiscriminately, too. It is important that all of us have the same image in front of us when we deal with this because we all have the same project, to ensure that the measures taken here are most beneficial, to prevent as much damage as possible, and to minimize the damage done by this situation. We saw this in the good work of a welfare committee with the subjects we are discussing here that may be of great benefit and benefit to this cooperation. I certainly hope that it will mark the cooperation of my share and the greater part of this operation, both soon and long, because we all have the same goal of making sure that this nation will come as strong as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u40	A respectable president. I believe there will be obvious collaborators between government and government opposition as a result of many of the issues that are obviously coming to our attention. For example, I could say that we are going to bring in financial and financial policies in the spring that obviously will not be able to receive the routine treatment at a time that would normally be available. This requires much closer cooperation and cooperation over all the consequences and handling of that matter during the council. At the moment, we are faced with a level of emergency, with income in individual companies falling by more than half in many cases. I heard an example this week where one company with 300 businessmen received payments from two of them on a one - day basis. That's where we're going to respond, and we're called in so much.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u41	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees on bill to legalize the changing of unemployment insurance laws and the guarantee of remuneration, a decrease in employment rate. A management committee has discussed this subject and has brought in a number of visitors, through telecommunications, the parties involved. The bill is presented in view of the serious situation currently in the labour market where there is a lot of uncertainty about Covid-19 and it suggests that temporary regulations are added to unemployment insurance laws, No. 54/2006 - law on remuneration, No. 88/2003, however, that will require temporary measures for July 1, 2020, which aim primarily to encourage employers, allowing them to maintain recruitment relations with employees, instead of resorting to confidentiality in spite of temporary loss of income. The expected reduction due to the spread of the Covid-19 disease will have widespread social and economic effects. In specific situations such as this, it is necessary to deal with the problems predicted by people and companies. Resuscitation of the labour sector, enabling employers to reduce the intensity of their activities temporarily because of a slower pace in the economy, and support the independent working persons who have to endure the related collapses of the operating system. The objective of the bill is to trust the foundation of people and companies in uncertain times and to work against less and more unemployment and the negative consequences resulting. The production of the bill is part of the necessary action at a time of great challenges and is aimed at supporting the efforts of society and economic systems after the present situation is over. These committees proposed changes to the bill, primarily to protect low and intermediate groups, and to meet larger groups of labour workers in part - time jobs. This will be discussed with the Commission's proposals below. I'm not going to do a detailed study of the subject of the bill itself presented by the Minister in the days but primarily to review the changes made in the case and to review only the committee's discussion. The reviews received by the Committee and the reviews of visitors to the committee found the different effects the Covid-19 epidemic had on different sectors of employment. Among other things, the effect of a travel ban, adopted by many countries, on tourism, on import and exports, and the consequences of a meeting ban for independent trades that are in an uncertain job position, was discussed. Enterprises and independent persons inevitably need to gather in business because of the pandemic. The bill aims to make it easier for companies to reduce the labour rate so that they can maintain recruitment relationships and to ensure that internally active partners have scope for reducing business management without being exposed to uncontrollable loss of income due to the pandemic. The Commission has a trial in connection with unemployment improvements to meet reduced employment ratios due to temporary failure. Thus, there is no intention to deliver pay costs for the work effort involved. It is therefore assumed that work will be reduced by a worker with the reduced employment rate. The Committee encourages the Work Office to help employees be informed about their rights and the work responsibilities in these matters. It is important that, together with the inclusion of the resources recommended by the bill, the broad presentation will be conducted on them and that they will have to be assured that they will reach the groups most useful to use. Clearly, tourism companies are among those who experience one of the biggest events of the Covid-19 pandemic. Particular attention should be given to the fact that the employees of these enterprises come from a variety of nationalities and must ensure that there will be information on how to use them in more languages than there are in your country. The Commission specifically suggests that the work programme can provide information on the resources it provides for at least in English and Polish, and also Icelandic. The same is true in the following cases involving other authorities and other government responses to existing situations. So, about the rights of a fish farmer. According to 6 mg. a-arms 1. The bill does not follow the requirements of paymen who are entitled to pay insurance and who are employed by an employer entitled to pay from a job-free insurance fund for temporary maintenance on the basis of a law on the non-employment insurance fees for commercial workers, No. 51/1995. The committee has been assured that payers who receive this law will be no worse than other employees after receiving this bill. This may be related to events as a result of a change in Regulation No. 556/2004 so that fishing companies will have comparable opportunities for business decisions and companies in other sectors. The committee believes that this understanding is the basis for law 6 mg. a-arms 1. The bill is entitled. The Commission's declaration will then be presented. In line with what is stated in the section on community conditions due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Committee suggests that 1 mg is clearly stated. a-arms 1. the bill that the employer cannot demand work effort from the employee beyond the job ratio that remains when the employment rate has fallen. For the reduced total pay rate, according to the 2nd case. The provisional terms laid out in Article 1. The bill can pay from employer and pay unemployment benefits combined not to exceed 80% of the average total salary per three months prior to loss of employment rate. If so, the pay will not be able to raise more than 650,000 dollars. per month, compare 3 mg. the law. These limitations brought great criticism to the 1st. on the matter at conferences and at the Committee's discussion, especially in view of the fact that the lowest wage in society was not excluded by the directive and that the reductions were affected by low- and middle income groups. The Commission suggests that instead of 80% of the roof, it will be based on the combined payment of a remuneration to a earner that can obtain 90% of the average total wages in the past three months before the loss of employment rate. Then the commission suggests a total of 650,000. maximum monthly payment will increase to 700,000. Finally, the commission suggests paying up to a sum of up to 400,000 dollars. In a month there is no decline according to the ordinance, nor in a price that a seat shall be laid down for that money. If the adjustment is accepted, it will lead to a paid person who has had up to 400,000 dollars. in a total monthly rate during the last three months, the average amount of entire pay will remain unchanged during the application of an a-ili. The bill stands. If you've had a hired man, you've had between 400,000 and 245,000. in the monthly pay during the period, his pay will be for the application of 400,000 dollars. per month. If you've had a hired man, you've had over 445,000. the monthly pay will be reduced by about 10% during the application of the resource. Total payment, however, can reach a maximum of 700,000. per month, instead of 650,000 K. as originally suggested. The bill shows that the criteria for the application of measures recommended for a team 1.g. prior employment rate was estimated to have decreased by 20%, at least as much as by 20%. Misconceptions have been identified as a 20-point reduction, e.g. so that 80% of the employment rate falls to 60%, or that it refers to a fifth decrease in the previous employment rate, which would mean 80% work ratio would have to be reduced to 64%. Having agreed with the Ministry it is clear that the Commission is going to aim for a drop of 20 percentages. To make this point unconcerned and to increase the awareness of the bill, the Committee suggests a change in wording on this condition in 1st. a-arms 1. The bill. In 1st. The provisional terms laid out in Article 1. the bill is expected to include a paid person holding at least 50% of his employment ratio in order to take advantage of the proposed resources. Under the Commission's review, it was critical that many companies would have to make significant reductions in their business affairs and, in some cases, would have to reduce their employment rate further in order to keep as many companies on the payroll. It was also noted that the requirement for a 50% minimum service rate would be impaired for the personnel in part-works where there would be little room for those in that position to accept a decrease in work ratio. Thus, a number of travel - service companies were not well cared for by students who are in the field at the same time. So the committee suggests the change in minimum staff ratio to 25%. In the case of the matter, a student's position has not been made clear whether students doing part - time work are under the terms of Article 1. the bill, but it's 1st. 52. g. law on unemployment insurance is generally not considered by law to students. The Committee reviewed that the bill was also intended to be met by students who were in part - time jobs and who had to take on a reduced employment rate. Then it was also stated that the resources should be used by employees who, depending on incidents, did not earn unemployment insurance, as such. Section 15. legal on unemployment insurance during work periods. In order to eliminate any doubt about the intervention of students and these groups, the commission suggests that unless a paid person is considered guaranteed in the sense of law, such as for study, it can be made clear that there is no room for compensation. ., or a probationary period, compare 15th. and that the conditions of the law may be fulfilled. The second law of the law is the value of compensation according to the arrangement as we can have it. In this context, the committee points out that such arrangements as paragraphs 14. The law on effective search and 2 mg. 17th par. The Act on Decisions on cut-offs, the nature of the case, in accordance with the provisional terms of a-party Article 1. The bill. To this end, the commission suggests wording 5 mg. a-arms 1. The bill will be changed. At the same time, the Commission suggests that the wording of the law to pay unemployment improvements according to the rules does not compromise the right to pay unemployment benefits so that there can be a clear basis for paying compensation under the law not to limit acquired rights according to the laws on unemployment insurance. In view of the extent of uncertainty in the community and the rapidly changing circumstances, the Committee suggests that the time of the decision will be reduced to a value of June 1, 2020, instead of July 1, 2020. It is necessary that the impact of these actions be assessed before the time of the bill expires. At this point it is impossible to predict the development of the next few months, so it must be assumed that these measures will either run their course or change according to the experiences that will last the next few weeks of the use of the resources given by the bill. The committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the proposed changes made in a special changing box that has been reviewed and that the changes have been considered in the committee's opinion that I have considered. I'm stressing that the work rate is being reduced from 50% to 25%. It is changing the peak a salary can make from 650,000 dollars combined. of 700,000. They're making sure there's a floor at 400,000 bucks, nobody goes below. Those with a total wage under that amount keep their total, but no one goes lower than 400,000. the month for a full-time job. I believe these changes are a great improvement, and as was shown in the case of a minister when he moved the case in the previous week, it was assumed that there would be an even greater work to face the unprecedented situation facing here at the labour market, especially in the tourism industry, but will lead to a different effect on the job life. Under this committee of the above mentioned publications, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, Head of the Committee, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Halldóra Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánsdótir, Árnadóttir Kolbrönnadóttte, Halldódra Mogensen, as a warning, Ásmundur Friðriksson and Vilhjálmur of the Árnason. I don't have it any further, and I trust that this big and important matter will be well paid off at the council today. It is vital to send messages to society that anything that can be done will be done in order to face the present circumstances and hopefully to become temporary, and this is part of the measures that governments take in good and broad solidarity. I would like to thank you for your solidarity on a health committee to resolve the two major issues that the committee discussed during the two last days.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u42	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for bringing this committee to our attention, of course, and of course thanking it and others on the welfare committee for much effort in presenting this matter to us. The matter has changed considerably, and the need for it was great. It was not far enough when the bill was placed on the side of the government and good for the General and the Committee to intervene. However, I am concerned about the matter, and I would like to ask. A senator to two, three things about it. First, the employment rate is changed from 50% to 25%, so the companies seem to have the right to 75%. Twenty-five percent left. A very large number of companies have no income and will not get a cent in the box today, the next few weeks, or the next month. What should be done for those companies, for those who have no income? Another significant proportion of people are now on unemployment levels and are likely to lose their rights in the near future. I don't have much work to do today. What, then, will happen to people who aren't getting a job? Can it continue? Is there a new option, or how will it be dealt with?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u43	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the questions. These items were handled well with the visitors we got through the council telecommunications program. Admittedly, there were cases that will be difficult to get tailored to, but there are resources for the independent working employers who have an enterprise and now see no projects. They can get unemployment benefits. If they paid their dues and went into business, they can do individual jobs within a month, and work on their unemployment benefits. I believe some independent professional drivers who have been in business for the past three months are welcome here on this bill. I don't think it's possible to go below 25%. That's when there's really no work at all. By moving the ratio down to 25%, though, we are catching quite a lot of people in part - time jobs that are important. It's, for example. People who have worked with school and people who are in part - time work may be facing them in more than one place. For people who now have unemployment benefits and who see that their right to unemployment is over, I have not been told that this is the case with many people. This was not shown in the case of the employment agency. If that's the case, I think I'm going to have to deal with it at work and the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u44	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. We know of companies that have been working for 30 to 40 people but are looking for no income in the next month, I mean, zero income, because this virus has got its feet turned away from companies. That's what the situation does. No tourists coming, no buying trips, no buying services. For these companies, the choice may seem to be to cut down and shut down, shut everybody down, because they can't even pay the 25% they're supposed to pay. I'm glad to hear we're doing what we're doing. A senator agrees that the obvious factors that arise regarding those who may be falling into unemployment need to be addressed. On the other hand, there is one group that we have left, parents who are at home with children because our schools have decided to switch school days or school weeks. Then people need to stay at home and accept either a sick license or a use of their orb. [[The president calls.]] Has it been considered to meet these people in particular?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u45	Mr. President. About the second thing. A senator mentioned this rather with the bill that will be passed afterwards and that will be applied there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u46	That's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u47	Regarding smaller companies, such as. in travel services that see no activity for the next month - two months, three months, who knows? - and maybe have 203/430 people at work, of course, it's important that the state fund pays 75% of their employees' wages to maintain a recruitment relationship between the employee and the company. If an enterprise sees that it cannot live, then there is little more to it than bankruptcy and disclosure. They would receive a full salary according to their dues, which would be more costly and worse. That is why I believe that a company will try to follow this path if they have not fully reached the edge of bankruptcy when this situation broke down. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u48	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator of history. There's one thing I'd like to ask. A senator about whom I opened up in a talk to a 1st. and requested that the committee take a specific look. Then I know that a member of the Central Committee took up this question and asked for a written answer that has not yet been received. I'm not a member of the Committee, and I didn't hear the discussion there, but the point is that the company's employee makes a reduced employment rate, say 50%, and is in it over the amount of time this solution is available, whether it is the amount of time framed now or whether it is extended. What is the position of an employee who goes to a decrease in employment rate and then comes to a resignation, which, in turn, takes a longer period of unemployment? I don't see this under the committee opinion taken, and it would be interesting to know if the committee values it as if the rights of this employee were the result of the reduced employment rate in relation to this bill or whether it is based on the initial employment rate in which it was in prior to the release.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u49	Mr. President. This was discussed, and it is quite clear that employees who enter this selection with their employer enjoy all the collective rights based on their position before entering this process. I'm sure it's safe. If there is a possibility of reporting after this selection, their rights at the deadline will be based on their position before they went to a reduced occupational rate. I think it's very important that we clear this up. It is important to introduce this to employees, as I mentioned in my own talk, in more languages than Icelandic, because much of the travel service has been based on people from foreign lands who do not necessarily speak Icelandic. It is urgent, both employers and unions, to introduce people to their rights in these matters following the approval of the bill, hopefully today. It is absolutely clear that these rights are based on the salary status of the employee before this operation became active.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u50	Mr. President. Thank you. A chairman of the past and agree with what has been said here, wanting to present thanks to the committee and the chairman for the job well done at challenging times. I sure hope that men haven't missed anything at this job. That's why I'd like to include only the implementation of these activities, which are naturally important. I think a lot of companies are gonna take advantage of this, and I'm asking, "How's the work programme, can all of this work together? Has the project been reviewed on this strategy? Is this going to work just right? We know that this is often the same in the system, e.g. In dealing with a insurance agency, that things sometimes take a long time, and they need to be reformed. That's very important, and I just wanted to get some answers from what happened. A senator in this regard. Then I want to set aside what happened earlier. Today, there are 11 thousand persons on the unemployment record, with significant increases since January when they were about 7,000 and are coming up to increase. As mentioned earlier, however, people are also falling off unemployment record. That's what I'm talking about. A senator willing to take advantage of the individuals who come to the point of falling out of a unemployment list and see in a very difficult time that this period will be extended, as was done in the financial breakdown? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. In the case of this case, the labour oce has been preparing for this. The committee discussed these matters when the Office of Business approached her, and I would say that she was rather upset. A labour agency is expected to increase the number of employees, and it is activated by a network all around the country. We know the station on Skaga Beach, which could be added as soon as possible in the south and even activated by other operating stations. I understood a work agency, so she went to work on these matters, knew that the masses would be great and under pressure. The labour ocer will further simplify access to his electronic system to apply for and meet people who could not do so and simplify their extremely close behavior and do not have many entangled levels when applying for the work site. Perhaps a lot of people are impressed. I think we can be optimistic about the fact that there's going to be a lot of effort there to make this happen, because that's why there's a total of 20,000,300,000 apply to make use of this strategy. I'll take into account what you're worried about. A senator of people who may be falling off unemployment, thinking that we as a community will do what was done when the economic breakdown occurred, to grab them and meet them if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u52	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an informative answer. It's very important that these things all work very quickly, and I don't doubt that the workforce's employees will be able to do their very best. On the other hand, we must have no scruples in the system of things that can delay the handling of these matters. Like what? A senator rightly mentioned a very large group of people to take advantage of these provisions. Thank you. A senator for informing here that this has been carefully reviewed and that all employees of the labour agency are willing to be made in these areas. I reiterate what I said, Mr. President, we must not forget the group that is already on unemployment record and has been looking for employment for a long time. I'm glad to hear it. A senator and the head of a welfare committee should think that we must respond to this and take the way in which we went in the financial crisis, extending the period of unemployment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u53	Mr. President. You almost feel that the collapse of the economy has occurred yesterday when we are now facing the challenges that this virus demands of all members of the community to meet in various ways. However, it came out of the financial breakdown, although everything had been very intense and important, that there were some operations that were very well data, such as offering that a part of the pay force would be improved if the person held a contract with a professional worker, extending the unemployment period to the people who had been the longest on unemployment record and offering people unemployment benefits and education. All these tools were well - documented, and now we can use them very well under these circumstances and improve the quality of our work. I trust that all of us will face the worst in society under these circumstances. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u54	A respectable president. We're dealing with a bill to correct the changing of unemployment insurance laws and pay-achieving laws (a reduced labour rate). This case has been held this week on a welfare committee committee, and I have to say exactly as it is that the cooperation on the Committee has been exemplary. We've really tried to solve the issues that have come up, and I think we've done it as well as we possibly can. This has left no difference in whether it is a government or an opposition, all have been willing to resolve matters successfully. And I hope that I can just believe that we will work in a similar way in the ahead. This case has been presented, and it is very important that the minimum wage has been set for 400,000 bucks. No one gets less than that. Then, the maximum is 700,000. This will result in a collapse. They are trying to ensure that, in particular, those on the lowest salary and in the intermediate group will be hit at least. In this context, we can also point out that this bill is not perfect and will never be perfect. Groups will fall apart, and we're aware of that. Hence, it is also clear that the time period is short, until June 1. During that time, you will likely be monitored for the need to do research on the bill to catch some who have fallen between them, have not received the correction and help that the bill should provide. One important question has been raised that I hope the minister and labor movement can answer. That's a very serious thing I've heard about and I don't believe that I'm right. It's about the loss of a former staff account, that there's been a rapid discharge of the rehabilitation of people. These people are in there because they're sick. I can't believe this because if these people are quickly released to the condition they now have no rights in the unemployment system. As soon as it leaves the workforce store, it has come to the point where it has no income. Does this mean that these people are being referred to social benefits? I don't believe it, but I'd rather believe and trust that the labor movement and the workforces of a physician will take into account the circumstances that exist today. If it's true, and if there's anything under there, it's not going to fit in on this bill, but there's no chance of taking it seriously. That's all you can do. I also point out that the bill is helping a certain group of people at work. People can go down to 25%, which is really important. We need to realize that a large group of people has a ratio of 50 to 60%. If there's someone in a 45% employment rate and there's a 20 percent reduction, it's in there, there's 25% left and the person's in this situation. Those in part-time work, maybe in a 60% labour rate and down to 40%, are in this bill and they'll be taken care of. This is important because the group that is often in this small working ratio is very sensitive; it is a group that may not be able to work more than 20 Acid. Sadly, those in a 20% employment share are not in the room, but there is already a response team that has started working to handle and help those in the most vulnerable groups and to map out that everyone who needs help receives it. Based on the work we worked on this and the cooperation with a welfare committee, I believe that we will continue to cooperate with it, ensure it, and make sure that those who need help get it. All they have to do is watch and search when this is started. I understand that this committee has been initiated and will definitely come up with some conclusions from her right after a weekend. People can start looking for help that they need. Therefore, it is very important that fear does not overtake people, that they seek help and listen. All of us need to help out and help those who, for some reason, are unable to access the Internet or on the telephone to find help, to have someone watch, and to help those who really need it. Many people are invited and prepared, as we have seen, people are helping, driving out goods, and other things that I like about, as the situation is today. We'll help each other and we'll get through this. It's one of the first projections to fix things up, and I believe that many more bills will come in to help, and we'll stick to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u55	Mr. President. With a few factors, adjustments have been made. The welfare committee. It seems to me that, by the way, an elevated roof has been successfully implemented. As the bill was shown, the total pay total was not improved by 80% of the previous three months of the average income. It has now been moved to 90% and all pay below 400,000. During a month, 100% improvements are enjoyed in the conversations. This makes another point that was carefully discussed with the first man. Um... what came in as 650,000. A roof according to the bill. The committee proposes that this roof be brought up to 700,000 bucks. I believe that there the committee could have gone a little further, which would be reasonable because of the large groups in the working world that are in pay failures just above those limits. At that time, employees who have had a low work ratio have fallen to 90%, which is good and blessed, but in addition there will be a 100% reduction after 700,000 dollars. The target is reached. I'd like to read an answer from the Ministry of Health to a question that you might have. A welfare committee sent out his meeting yesterday. The answer was right, and it says, by permission of the president: If the roof was removed, the cost of employment insurance would swing from 200 million dollars. K. Up to 456 billion. K. For every 5,000 contracts (which makes them less than 2 billion for 20,000 contracts) depending on the applicant's employment ratio, the employment ratio may be estimated to be 100%. I think that in the overall picture we now see, there are 2 billion very well spent helping to support that these groups did not find the best option to go directly to a three - month notice and then hope for the best. It caught my attention in the TV news of Stopr 2, I think it was, last night, when I was at the top. The social minister of Ásmundur Einar Daðason interviewed and said that at the beginning the government's standards were that this particular operation would cost 1.5 billion dollars. I hope that this figure was a misunderstanding based on live transmission because if the government's policy was that it would cost only 1.5 billion, I'm afraid the standards and standards are very detailed. As I'm saying, I hope this was a misunderstanding based on sometimes, but during the interview it was what I think happened in the history of a problem. paritaprevir In the past, the Lilja Rafney Islands Magnúsdóttir, at the expense level, fell somewhere below 12 billion now. Looks like it's him. The head of welfare committees no longer fails in this regard. If the price tag on these measures goes from 12 to 14 billion to that of removing or raising the roof a little, I think that there would be a great deal of effort in maintaining these classes, which are certainly fines but also in a sensitive recruitment relationship as a result of a major loss of income that these classes will need a special consideration if it is not better to go on unemployment right away. I don't think the extra cost is so great that one more turn should be taken, so to speak, on this particular point. In particular, I rejoice that the lower limit of the work percentile has been transferred from 50% to 25%. I think this is absolutely necessary. It sees everyone watching the news and accepts messages coming from a professional level that a group of the companies who don't even have the authority to pay 25% is oversized enough. So I think it was a good change, though, to go down to 25% on the committee's new proposals, and I'm happy to do that. I must admit that I do not have the conviction that it is reasonable to shorten the life span of the change, as it is here, from July 1, 2020 to June 1, 2020. So instead of a court court of about 100, there is a bill's life span somewhere near 70 days. We have to look for an extension in due course. Just this shortcut should give you the courage to go further as far as action goes, and I especially want to mention this roof, which is in all context very moderate. I left it that way at 1st. to 650,000. The figure in the original bill had been indistinguishable from similar action in connection with the failure of the bank. I don't have a year of that operation in my head, but if we give up that it's in 2010, it's 650,000. An indexed figure for today is expected to be anywhere near a million, but not 700,000, as suggested by the Committee to increase this threshold. I reiterate that I think that excellent changes in the Committee were made, but this roof, which will then be taken from 650,000 to 700,000, I am afraid that could be useful to the companies of the country and to the government funds at some future time. If the actual cost of removing the roof, as indicated by the Ministry of Health for the QA questions, is about 2 billion on the basis of 20,000 contracts, I think it would be wise to raise it considerably, if not completely unexplained, and never less than that it would be indexed from the date set in 2010, if that was the year. I repeat, I don't have it in my head. This is what I wanted to say during this discussion, and I continue to say that the Central Party - now I'm getting information about the 2009 criteria and the equivalent is 950,000. ... comparedtoday. I can see why. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir, chairman of welfare committees, here in the hall, so I believe that if the cost of removing it is 2 billion, according to the criteria given by the Ministry of Health is likely to be somewhat lower in moving it up to 950,000. I think it would be wise for us to never walk worse than that, but I reiterate my suggestion that we should look forward to removing it completely while we're getting the sense of it. This will be particularly dangerous in view of the reduction in the time of the bill's life. I'm not going to say this for now, but I'm going to reiterate that we from the Central Party are here to offer some practical suggestions to solve the situation. The matter has improved in the activities of the Committee, but I think it would be wise to take a few steps further in terms of the specific points facing the maximum roof.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u56	A respectable president. I'm glad we've brought this bill up for discussion and hopefully a final payment soon because I think it's one of the fundamental factors that will help the majority of the companies who are experiencing a major financial failure now and demand failures in these unusual times. This is a fundamental factor in making them hope that they will be able to reduce income flows because the income flow has stopped to them and hold their good companies, which feed their resources in the country by employment and pay. That's extremely important. I think it's as if it's now covering the main deck or the largest group. We can't reach all groups. We've had a lot of discussions about this before. A welfare committee and I just want to take advantage of this opportunity to thank the whole committee and her chairman for their very good work and good cooperation in this. We were able to cover extraordinary numbers in a short period of time with extraordinary numbers under difficult circumstances. The bill has changed dramatically. I think that when we look at the end of the bill, we must also look at how many major and costly changes we made in our case. We listened to many comments, and it may well be that we have failed to answer each question. But then we all know here that there will be more cases and others that we need to respond to in other legislation or through other funds or take other steps. So, while we have not reached the point of answering all the concerns of companies and people in this case, hopefully we will have the opportunity to respond to most of them in some other way, whether through a regulation change, a different legislation, or a change in the activities of various factors and such. There are many possibilities. Taking the conversation and going over it is important. I've also found it in the processing of this case, and since the first time it was said that the companies are waiting tremendously for this. This is a matter that has made us not yet hearing news of a great array of information, especially in the tourism and the secondary activities of the European tourism community. Although people are not directly involved in travel services, they are so often working in a number of ways for tourism, and so forth, the effects of a meeting ban are spreading, so that there are always more and more people who can take advantage of this, to see problems, but to see a solution that can help them to survive the greatest stock. But we all know that we need to work together on this assignment. This is a common subject. Everyone's gonna have to take on something. What we're trying to do here is let the person who needs to be careful not to become insurmountable, whether it's the homes, the companies, the state's funds or who it is. I appreciate the changes we've made on the bill. They've been made very clear today, but I'm going to be very brief about the basic changes. When the demand declines so fast, it just goes down to zero, it was extremely important to be able to change the situation so that your employment rate can be reduced to 25%, we changed from 50% to 25. I think it's really important. It's a big change, and it changes the cost of food a lot, but I think it's one of the basics in order for the situation to achieve its objectives. I realize, however, that this can put the middle income groups, the middle class, and the average wageman in the country in a slightly worse position. Hence, it was important to make concomitant the change to raise the maximum payoffs that can be obtained from an employment-free budget, combined from 80% up to 90%. With that change, we reduce the impact on the pay population, and it is extremely important that this is 10% of the total score instead of 20%. I can agree with what's happened here up to 700,000 bucks. The climax is still one, can we say, the fence on the case to adjust the cost and how this is to be done? But this is significant because both by reducing the decline from 20% to 10%, change the limit from 80 to 90%, and raise the pay from 650,000. of 700,000. Nevertheless, we are able to extend ourselves to the average wage in the country, with the effects and well up for them. Those with more than 900,000. If we take an effect on income tax and other income taxes, we get a relative decrease of more than 10% of the above. You can always go beyond what I said back then, we made many radical changes that are important. They'll make it happen now that the companies are starting to set up their stage films, so this will significantly reduce the information and uncertainty of the staff for some time. So I think it's an acceptable conclusion. Certainly, it would have been tempting to increase the peak by more than 700,000 bucks, or even take them out, using the maximum amount of unemployment insurance that is more than 456,000 dollars, full of unemployment benefits. 50% of it is 22822K. That was certainly one of the findings. However, adjustments were needed to be prioritised, and this was the common conclusion of the committee. All of the most vulnerable groups are protected by placing 400,000 jars. The floor, and it's important. But we know that this too will be difficult for middle - income groups and higher because they have many commitments behind them, on student loans, and are likely to have this salary in their family car and stuff. So we just need to see if the group is going to get worse on this than the rest of us, and we need to keep this in mind for further action. But I think that by keeping this operation general and also achieving these fundamental changes, we have a good result. I also want to come in on the time of the bill. It is until June 1 after the changes in the Committee. In view of circumstances, I think it was right not to have it anymore, because, of course, the companies are commitmenting to a longer recruitment relationship by paying a part of the salary for a certain period of time. How vital it is that we have to evaluate the position in May! How have languages developed? What's the situation in general with the companies? Then we can extend the law, and we can also make changes in it, such as. The ratios and peaks in pay and so on. Then you can respond. We need to have the way this way works and how it goes to a constant review from the date it takes effect. And then we just need to see what the situation will already be. Is it possible to extend or change the requirement, or has it just begun to run its course, to get the job started again, or to have any other measures taken, or to take up the companies and homes? That's what we need to find out. I think this is a very clear and good message that the General and the government can send to their jobs and therefore to the homes that we are going to assist them. In fact, it is here paying the insurance fee to the companies who are having problems with the position that exists. However, the operation is aimed at helping those who need it. We're setting priorities like that. There are other general procedures, I'm not going to rule out that there will be a level, I don't know, e.g. Cut down insurance and stuff. This, then, is a general procedure that includes those who may not have suffered the loss of income or so on. You may be able to agree with that way, but we have to look at it from the situation we are in today. We're on the move a little bit and rescue work now, and then we just need to evaluate the situation at any given time and what action is right in place. I believe we have a very good case where the Committee has come to a very successful conclusion in consultation with the government. I look forward to seeing if we can't reach any of our goals and most of us by accepting this bill today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u57	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason's speech. I'd like to ask the senator about what he came on, the shortcut for the time of the bill, and the fact that the committee, and the government, would expect to make changes after the effects of the bill appear, and people see how well it reaches their goals. Isn't the senator concerned that these groups that the roof is going to have what is worst for three months to end the recruitment relationship with their employer by reporting it out loud? Would it not have been reasonable to take the step further now and be able to back up after a review of the bill later? I'm afraid the effects of wearing such a dose in the roof will be immediately apparent so that there will be no room for man to adapt the bill and the solution to the position to which it appears.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u58	President. It may well have been too late for certain groups, but I think we're in the area where it's really starting to have a real effect. What we're responding to here is mostly a service company, so we don't have many jobs right now. There's one group in there, and then there's a little bit of the business to evaluate whether they're less informed and how they do it. As I came in earlier, we are trying to deal with the situation now, and it is primarily the service that is underneath. By being up under the millions with the minimal impact of this operation on the worker, I believe we are reaching the huge number that we can enjoy even if I can totally agree that there is a danger. But there are many other such groups that come up here. We discussed students, and we try to deal with them as we can with them, but many students, e.g. without a recruitment relationship and therefore not falling below, we could not solve it. There are also other groups who may have a work ratio in two places or are in a 40% labour rate and therefore do not share this. Many groups can be picked up, and we have to accept that we cannot solve all of this, and our companies must also be somewhat progressive about finding solutions within their ranks with this so that this can be general, clear, and active. Then the government has to see if there are large groups that fall out here that need to be taken in another way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur, Árnason, answer. Of course, I do not want to thank what is being done well in the reaction now being prepared. It's not that much of a goal. But it must also be maintained that it is not that we have this order - changing transformation to reach up to the millions in the minimum impact. The effect is 100% after 700,000 K. The target is reached. Hv. A senator entered it in his reply, and then I give myself the fact that it is based on data submitted to a welfare committee, that these were not very large groups in companies that were being severely affected, so I ask: Is it not even more reason to let them into the emergency response and then can back up later if you think this was an advantage? I think there's a hell of a lot of risk going on, but I think it's really dangerous now. The answer to the Ministry of Health, mentioned in my previous talk, turned to the fact that if this affected 20,000 contracts, the additional cost would be about 2 billion during the lifetime of this particular rule. Of course, if this is much lower than the fact that it affects 20,000 contracts, it's only positive and should make it even easier to overcome, we can say, with these particular groups short term, to assess the status in terms of the final impact. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council, whether the number of people underneath, has been specifically examined. If that line seems to indicate that they're not large groups, then why is that? A senator then not at least worth wondering about keeping in mind, especially since the time of the bill has been cut short? This, in turn, can be removed from the short period of time that has passed, even earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u60	A respectable president. What I would like to start by pointing out is that there were many groups that came in here into, different sizes and all that, and the committee came into many things. The bill's cost assessment when it arrived at the council, whether 100% correct or not, was 700,1500 million. Since the cost arms have risen to 20 billion, let us keep it in perspective as to what changes we have made and how we have responded to the situation. For these groups, only one group came and spoke clearly that this could affect whether they would agree to go this way or not. In contrast, BHM and SA and others noted that with this roof, the bill had a greater impact on certain groups. These people were not concerned that they would not go in the way of helping their business and take it but the roof would have this effect, they said it would not take these groups entirely. A significant number of tourism companies have said that the people who are about to be paid are usually middle managers and others. It's usually the people the companies need for the next few days anyway, and they're not going to give it up. These are the people who will handle the company so that your heart rate goes on until you can call more people back into the company, make sure you keep your arms around the companies during the crash. So this was not much of a call from tourism.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u61	Mr. President. There's been a lot going on over the past few days and since before the weekend about the case we're dealing with here, a bill to correct the changing of unemployment insurance law and the law on the guarantee of a remuneration, due to a decrease in employment rate. First, I'd like to thank the number of people who have visited the committee at a meeting at a meeting of normal telecommunications, who have imparted their knowledge and experience to us. I want to thank all members of the committee who have a night and a day's work very fast to get this matter settled in a chamber. I want to thank the personnel of the Ministry, the personnel of the institutions, the employment agencies, the state tax managers and others, but most important, I want to thank the members of the Parliament, the staff of the Committee, who have been working with us in all of this because it has often been forgotten. I know that there are a lot of people now who can't help doing that. There's a lot of pressure on the staff in this house, on the committee field, on the whole system. It needs to be remembered. It is also worth reminding all members of the committee. The members of the committee meet with the members of the committee's committee that are being discussed and with an audience officer at Reunion, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, agrees with the committee's opinion. There were two ahead of time, but it was because of a small factor that was noted, but everyone supported the commission and the changes this case has noticed that it came here to the council less than a week ago. This case, and the following issue, looked initially to be a small step of many that will be taken up and in the response of our government to this virus, but it was likely the largest single action that will be taken regarding the labour market. You can hear clearly from the labour market partners waiting very much for this. I'd like to come on some shows. As mentioned earlier, not everything can be done for everyone. It's a terrible phrase, but that's the way it is. That's impossible. On the welfare committee, I and I made a special point that we would fit those with the lowest salary. The representatives of ASI agreed completely as well as the representatives of BSRB and others looking at the numbers, looking at their 80% roof of numbers and pointing us to a welfare committee as to what the problem would look like to those with 400,000 bucks. and lower, how the 20% impairment would go for that group. We realized that it would not go for the lowest wage. I'm incredibly happy with the members of the Committee to defend this group because they need to take out some group, and then I'm glad we protected those who have the lowest salary. If you have 400,000 or less, you will not get 80% of your previous income, but keep it 100%, and it will not be less than 400,000. Well, in the transition, it's perfectly clear. We made these changes. Of course, the best blow will be for those with the highest salary. It would have been a punch for those with the highest salary because the roof of pay from the Labour Office, from the employment insurance fund, is always $450,000. Those with a higher income would always have been hit, that's inevitable. But this time it was at least trains to protect especially the level of income. There was a lot of discussions in the Committee on Independent Professionals. We changed what we had previously learned that the pay should be paid only during the past three months, taking into account an annual payment to make this average. It may be that e.g. During the past four weeks, especially those in travel service who were hit hard because they started wearing the books a few weeks ago. So it is important to watch 12 months, not just three months. However, independent professional drivers are in a position where notice time is often absent. It should now be noted that this is a resource, so employers are more likely to negotiate with their employees and employees to go to a reduced employment rate rather than resort to lay-offs. This is what we have to remember because we got yesterday and we get today and the last days of a lot of people saying, "My situation has changed. I was on a job-related salary, so I only got paid when I called. This is true in many restaurants and in large areas of the tourism industry. A guide gets e.g. Just paid for the call but is still defined in a steady working relationship. To these people, I would like to mention that if all the tasks fall down and you don't have the right to have any notice, because it's not such a work union, they simply go on unemployment. Sadly, that is true. But with this option that is being created here, the number of partners that go directly, in all their power, into the unemployment record is being reduced. It is being developed that a work relationship between an employee and a company is maintained, but the employment rate is reduced, and the employment insurance fund takes the loss of the employee. Those who have no job, those who will not have 25% or more simply have unemployment records. Now, those hired with their notice should make full use of their notice before they can have a unemployment record. That's why it gets complicated. You don't have the right to unemployment until you've finished your notice. The bill is being won in this way because there are so many companies outside the community who are so involved because there is no income in it that they simply cannot pay their notice. It's complicated. I think it's particularly complicated for someone who used to be. turning on the television or the World Congress now and trying to figure out what this is all about. But we need to be diligent, we and the government and the agencies, the employment agency, and, of course, the unions and the employee movement, to explain to people the difference between this option and the resources that if the business goes bankrupt, you go directly to unemployment. If a company closes, if a company is just going to resign its employees, it's due for a notice, and the right is not to be taken from the staff. He's there. It's only when companies go into bankruptcy that employees can go straight for unemployment. Salaries involved in an on-going pay relationship should consider whether there is any notice or whether the person is going directly to unemployment benefits because there are no jobs. In the case of the Commission, we changed the minimum, as noted here, I'm not going to spend many words on it, from 50% work ratio to 25%, and that's very important to the position. Those who are most willing to take this crisis simply said that 50% of their employment ratio was too high. This led to a considerable increase in the cost of government funds. Still, we thought that it was justified. We were helped by students who were quite worried about those who are not on student loans, who are in part - time service, or even full - time at university or high school to support themselves and their families. The reality today is that the number of students who earn a living on student loans has fallen very much. There are a lot more who work with study. If you take ten units or more, as the standard is today, full study counts as 30 units in a semester, you are not entitled to unemployment improvements. This bill is unmounting. Students will be entitled to unemployment benefits because of a decrease in employment rate to the level of others. It is also unmounting what has been meant by a person's having to have an active job search to keep this right. You will not be required for active jobseekers in this case because it is assumed that you will only be doing your full-time job at the end of this period, because this is a temporary procedure and we are all watching that this will end sooner than later. We're sending a clear message about it. Since it's not a home-made financial collapse, it's a collapse due to a global virus, we see the trend where it started first, it's like a mountain tunnel, we're going down again, which in this case is good. It is sometimes said that it is bad to go down again, but in this case it is good to get down from this top of Covid. Therefore, it is not said that the person needs an effective job search to keep this right. Then it is right to make a decision, because there are a number of questions to ask us about the employee's position in the event of a future notice, after the person has agreed to reduce the rate of employment and later needs to look completely for unemployment or other rights, that a decrease in employment rate has no effect on the future of the worker. The period will be watched before this situation began. It is important that the information is the most widely available. Only when it comes to the pressures of the Labour Organization. We were very concerned about this, and we had the work force especially with us to discuss the pressures we would expect to be on the Agency, both staff as well as equipment and computer equipment and the like. I think it's inevitable that the large package will look at it, in what is said to be expected in some kind of money that can, of course, be brought at any time. I think it's absolutely necessary, also to the health system, so they say here, that we're going to see such documents being supplied here at the council. In order to recruit more staff to receive the company's help, the labour agency will need to obtain additional funds to meet the local client. It is said that we may be looking at 20,000 envelopes, and although it has been said that the conditions in this case are the result of reducing the misunderstanding in the application procedure, it is quite clear that there will be considerable pressures at the labour oce. We, as financial resources and governments, must do our part in order for these employees, who, of course, are dealing with the virus in their own environment and throughout the world and their families, and the impaired school services, etc., cope with the pressures, and that we are actually creating a strategy that will be effective, that we are not creating measures that will be activated after 12 weeks or 16 weeks. Of course not. The blow is now. The usual deadline for unemployment has been somewhere between four and six weeks, and we must not allow the application deadline to be longer and should be shorter because it is so long. At the beginning of the week, I heard it was predictable that the application deadline would be extended to at least Eight weeks, possibly 12 weeks, but that's not available. We can't be answering people who are looking for this strategy at some point in the middle of summer. We need to make sure that there will be no more stress in the Labour Organization, employing more people. There are a lot of people who are now losing their jobs that we can use in this, and we just need to be very interested, look out, and realize that the system we're creating here, this law, is supposed to work. I think it's right to mention it, at the end of this brief passage of mine, between the 2nd and 3rd. will introduce a new proposal for the government authority or government tax adviser to provide information of their own initiatives to the labour oce for those who are making use of this tool. It contains information that already has the authority to call for from the government tax manager. But we believe it is correct, because of the way work is done at the head of the state tax and how important information is introduced there, to provide the Agency with the temporary resources to work more with the employment agency and to take the initiative to flaunt if something is wrong in the system. We believe that such a warrant is necessary and has been in touch with both the head of state and the Persian protection on the basis of that authority. I'll move a modification proposal between the 2nd and 3rd. This is the case. Finally, I would like to thank the committee, thank all members. It's been a lot of shit, but I hope that we've also managed to show the government that we can so well work together against parties in times of trial.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u62	V.E.G. President. I thank those who have taken up this discussion and thank the chairman of the committee who spoke here for a lot of good work on the committee. She's been holding these things tight together. Those who are trying to see on the plow, I'd like to say that here it says: "Do not touch the puzzle. " That's why everyone wears rags in the symposium these days, which is just normal and good. I'd like to come into some of the points on this matter. First, I'd like to go over it, so that's clear enough, that the captain of the Central Party had turned the committee even. that she felt that certain factors, e.g., might have been possible. regarding the dates set in other places. However, I would like to agree that the situation has improved greatly during the treatment of the committee. To be honest, a man was a little surprised when the case came from the government on what it looked like. It was as if I could put it that way. This has been added to the committee. Of course, we can have all sorts of opinions on how far to go, how much to do, where to focus, and where not to go. I believe that in the present situation, we should go way too far for the first step, then shrink and go back if necessary. You can say it's a flubber, but I think it's better in this situation. As a result, I join with those who have wondered whether the roof that is placed there should be higher. I think it should be higher. It's good that we are protecting the lowest earner, but we also have to consider that when it comes to contracting with those with a higher income, they may be able to repay their commitments and also reduce their social flow. The members that would have kept the roll going to some degree also reduce their consumption. I would have liked to see the roof higher and really take everyone in my arms to begin with, then picking out the groups that do not need help. I'm worried about people who are on unemployment today and who are supposed to go to work. I haven't had a clear answer to what I wondered about today when I asked them, "What will happen to them? " This is something that we need to consider and try to resolve. Perhaps it would have been better to keep a valid time longer to see the future further, but later to shorten it if the solution was not needed. I also think it would have been very good if the government were to be clear and say to the companies: "Don't run to, we're going to make a general, major operation. This is merely a tailor - cutting operation, as shown in the case of one member of the council today. It needs to be done at some point, but I think we should have stepped forward with major general action. I think it is also very important that those who may see a decrease in income or even a loss of employment are told that while the worst goes on, they are under cover with commitments. Companies and individuals are now to receive a clear signal that they are payable for a certain period of time, longer than a shorter period of three months, four months, five months. We may not have the same experience as we had ten years ago or so as to choose who would live and who would not. We've already heard a government minister talking about a viable business, and not just the government minister, more have used this word. I don't think we've come to that place today to choose which company to live and who not, because there are other things to follow, a home, even people's savings, etc. We need to cope greatly with the steps taken. In fact, like the others here who have spoken, I would have liked to see a better conversation and a better approach to the government. They've already said it's going to be done, and they're supposed to be. I think it's important that this conversation and consultation take place in time so that the government's antiquated views can be expressed, put them in the bag, come to the devil and say, "It's all right that you're doing, dear Ministers, but it's not going far enough. Let's do this. We can get involved. It is clear that the cost for society, the cost of Iceland, the state fund, will be high in the years to come. To cope with the problem, we need to make a debt of tens or hundreds of billions now. This is an unprecedented problem, and we must accept it. After the collapse of the economy, we came up quite quickly from those tragedies, and I think that there is no reason to believe that such things will happen now. If that unfavourable, this virus passes over at a certain time, as we see from other countries, we know that the wheels begin to turn in a month. While recovery takes longer than the economy and society a little longer, even a year, markets will open, and tourists will begin to arrive. Then we need to be ready to accept them. The government's gonna be all right. We only have to delay the big plans we had a few months ago, but it will all come if we take the fight right now, we're very interested, and we're not afraid to get into general, major action. V.E.G. President. I don't intend to use the entire speech session, but I wanted to put these thoughts first of the advance, which our most excellent member of the Committee had in mind that we in the Middle Ages could have been further advanced. Of course, we are eagerly awaiting, as are others, for further laws made by the government. We have provided ourselves specific suggestions, we have tried to disseminate them, sent them to the media that have not seen reason to publish them. However, we have distributed them on Facebook, and these are suggestions that we would like to see become reality right away, but now they're just suggestions that are installed and we're ready to work with governments for a solution and implementation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u63	A respectable president. I'd like to start by praising this bill and especially the changes made in it. Yet, there are a number of factors that can be made comments. At first, there are not many data behind why the rest and these thresholds are selected. If, for example, The rule of 20 percentage points would be taken entirely, any group she would not reach would be protected from cutting down the work ratio. Now there's a 25%-percent floor. The former employment rate can be reduced by 20 percentage points at least, which means that any person with less than 45% of the labour rate cannot use the resources. Then you might imagine a group of people who have several part - time jobs but who could not take advantage of it. It was shown during the discussions that you are not put together as the first discussion was, but what you are doing and how high your employment rate is in each job, not a combined work ratio. There's a possibility that there's a team that's in several part-works and can't take advantage of this. Whether they suffer or not, there is another matter. It doesn't necessarily have to be. But it's good to keep this in mind. I can see this bill, like quick solutions or emergency help. This is a very intense reaction that reaches most groups, such as a whale. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason said, but it could be that groups would be left out. This is not shown by evidence that there are none in these groups. It could be, but it could also be that it did not. It can be said that it's all right, that it lets go like this, but let's keep an eye on where someone might fall between a ship and a dock about this solution. It's good to keep that in mind. The points get a little mixed up with me on this subject and on the following issue, I'm trying to walk between them and the link to the thing about the environment, which is very nice and with good changes as well as explanations. I wanted to remind you specifically that in this bill, there is a possibility that some people could be killed, and governments need to be alert to such groups and react. Congress and health committees have already responded to the streets that could be found in the bill, but they are not obvious. There's a chance of them in several places. I want to make the same comment as that. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason did in a speech earlier when he said that we could never put our arms around all the groups. But we must, in effect, do so, especially the groups that fall under the goal of this bill that is reaching the worst. Our job is to try and reach at least wrapped around all those groups, not necessarily beyond those that are being held by the law now. The lines are still cleared, they're up to 700,000 bucks. and given 400,000 bucks. The floor. When you cross both the bill and the adjustments, you see that there are some things you're trying to set back and forth. After all, if you think only about the future, it would be very good if it were only simpler, and then you'd automatically think of unprovable basics. It would be much simpler if it were just defined. Then we wouldn't have that kind of extraditement here, and we wouldn't have special emphasis there. It would be interesting to consider this in the future, so the subject was referred to as a future committee. It would be nice to see some results there and work on the case. Like I talked about to the highest. A minister of education in unsubstantiated queries on Tuesday we have a relatively recent experience in the economic breakdown of this bill. We see that the effects of that crash eventually occurred in the homes of our country, not just apartment owners, but tenants and students who had loans or rents that were relevant to it. Only one of these groups experienced some correction of the mistakes the banks made when they made a vaccination, and all of it leads to disaster. I would like to see a future operation to cope with the damage that we will inevitably see as totally unchanged. It is certainly a patch for the next few weeks, the bill includes the end of May, likely with an extension plan, or a different general solution as shown. Senators. This is a time of container for the council and for the government, a means to seize at least the most serious. There is a stage ahead that extends much longer. While we may be able to shake off this period of infection and the like, there will still be a period that will be interesting, not necessarily in the positive sense of the word, to deal with. There I would like to see that the same groups wouldn't miss again. In today's changes, the rights of students in part - time work as well as the full - time ministry are also guaranteed. Overall, this is a very positive first action to address the most serious problems anticipated in the weeks ahead. This is a first step, and surely more action is needed. We're not sure about a giant package that the government intends to bring. I look forward to seeing what sort of planning will be used in those packages. You hear something like that. that the Environment and Transport Committee is being asked what projects are available if funding is available, which could speed up the development of specific projects, so that we do not face a crisis of action like ourselves in the crash. People seem to be taking advantage of the experiences we just got out of. I'm sure we made it out of the last collapse fairly fast, but I'm just a little worried that a few of the people still wrestle with the consequences. They lost their home and are still digging out of debt, in the rented trap as such, rent prices are enormously high, and people wouldn't be there if there hadn't been any indiscretions for different groups after the collapse. How important it is for us to expect that there are no gaps in the action we are taking now because they were definitely large last, and that is why we warn them right now. The options we're dealing with here are with potential gaps so that I simply encourage the government to monitor very carefully the statistics that come out of the use of these resources, to see specifically whether any groups cannot use the resources that can affect their work or the potential for income products, and to grab them. I have no doubt that the council will be invited and ready to join the baloney and bring in a quick resort to shutting down these mallets. There's nothing obvious. There are no data with this bill that says these groups exist. If the 20 percentages of the rule were for example. distance may mean that other groups and others, e.g. Those who did not need it would take advantage of it. That would cost a lot more than that. There are a number of challenges and might not be a good idea from cost, since the cost finally strikes all of us, from loans that we have to pay back, and from some stability project that comes automatically after it has been restored. Whatever the amount, these contributions are not available in this case. I say to the government: Please observe the groups that do not use these measures and respond quickly to prevent trauma from coming upon them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u64	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion very much. This situation, with the changes it has made, may become one of the most effective and appropriate operations to support with homes and businesses in the coming months. It is happy to see how good cooperation was achieved. A well - being committee and how much and good the situation in general has taken place. It is quite clear that, as it was first seen, it did not work to deal with the problems the companies face and that it would not have been possible for the rest to lead to much more extensive narratives now over the months than hopefully, this bill would agree. Of course, it is particularly required to mention the work ratio, it was reduced from 50% to 25%, especially around the underage group, so that there are no impairments in the individuals with 400,000 points. or less per month, and then the maximum favor was slightly increased. This shows how good a solid solidarity can be reached when this hall is tested, and hopefully a guide will cooperate with more parts and smaller parts of the action necessary in the coming weeks and months because of this unprecedented economic and health situation we are dealing with. It is proper to state from the outset that Hanna Katrín Friðriksson's son, boy. A member of the requisition is an officer on the welfare committee and is in agreement with the matter, and this is outlined in a committee, with the changes proposed. Still, there are some things that we would have wanted to mention where we could have gone further. For the first thing, it is absolutely clear that the maximum, 700,000 bucks, is still too low. Most comments, whether thought of the historical reviews of the National Association of Iceland, BHM, industry Association, or others, were in line with a larger number of 800,000,900,000. in this context it must be noted that the average pay for a full-time employee at work today is about 750,000,750,000,700,000, calculated based on the Habitat data. So it is clear that those in the middle of the full - time ministry still have a measure of impairment. We have to keep that in mind in this unprecedented position, that, unfortunately, this strategy will probably be very much used by companies, at least over the next two to three months. There is no way in itself to guess how far this will be. But I think it's quite clear, because we're primarily dealing with a temporary shock but very seriously, that the use of this strategy is going to be much greater now than it was to form in the collapse of its time. Therefore, it is important that the resources are ambitious, weldish, and really agree with commercial and home life to deal with the conditions we are dealing with today. Another factor to consider is a student's position in low work ratio, which has been heavily dependent on income along the course of study. These measures will not reach them. Those involved are not entitled to unemployment, since they do not seem to be functioning in that sense. I think it is important for the Council to consider, when it comes to working out this strategy at the next month's convention, that we are immediately ready to repair various minors that may be involved. It is obvious that here the council runs quite blind by the way it becomes new, which will be most useful, and what groups it should reach, it will ultimately not benefit as it seems today. Most important of the time of values: In the management of the Committee, the period of resort is reduced by one month, so it is now suggested that this date be applied to June 1 instead of July 1. I don't think so. However, it is important in the context of that governments and members of the council clearly declare that the treatment will be extended as necessary as we see better into the face of the long - term situation we may face. It's obviously very important, for example. For tourism to maintain recruitment relations with their employees for as long as possible, the most uncertain of the time when this temporary blow will end and how fast travel will take place when the virus has crossed both in our country and in our neighboring countries and around the world. This is what I think is important, and it is very important that governments make it clear that these measures will be used for as long as necessary. There will be no doubt, whether for business or for public, there will be no doubt. I appreciate the changes the case has made. They are all brought here to a great improvement, and it is far better and more powerful for us than it was when it entered the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u65	A respectable president. I wanted to come up here to celebrate this bill that we've been working with on the welfare committee and to use the opportunity to accept the words of the senators who have come up and welcomed the work that was carried out on the committee. One might say that a welfare committee, although this was a different focus, was acting as one person. But we reached one conclusion that everyone agreed on. The bill came from the government at the beginning of this week, was ready for about a week, and has made changes both in the treatment of the committee and in cooperation with the members of the Ministry. The bill comes from the highest. Minister of Social Affairs, Ásmundur the Einar Daðason, and we've had a good relationship with the Ministry on these suggestions. It was known when this bill came from the government, and the proposals, that the situation would change and things have changed from hour to hour, from day to day, but it was a good result. It was estimated initially that the bill would cost us less than 800 million, but we can see that if 20,000 people take advantage of these resources, it will be less than 13 billion and can go up to 30 billion if 50,000 people take advantage of it. It is a matter of meeting people who have employment contacts and taking those individuals and also those who are independent. I'd like to come into it for a minute, for there's been a little question as to how to handle the situation. If you are a private person who assumes a fee, you have the right to improve your unemployment during the loss of your work. Those who are operating independently fall under a set control panel of the head of the state tax on what they are working for and what activities they have, and they pay the non-employment budget from the bill, taking into account the amount of money and reference that they have paid during their last year of income or 2019. This is important. We can mention both artists, private employment drivers, hairdressers, and so on and hardly be mentioned. They can take into account the amount of payment they have paid. Similarly, I am very happy that we were able to fit in with the lowest income, less than 400,000. I think that was the most important thing, far more important than the fact that we're reaching them with a income shark because this bill is only three months away. You have to think that those who are more rich have a table before them, although there is a loss of income, they survive that month. Of course, you can see that using a dollar or two is an injection into the economy. But it doesn't matter. It's the most important thing in these days that we reach out to those who are the lowest paid. They are often young people who may have small children and who have only the income they may look forward to losing. Certainly there are all kinds of groups that are not covered by the resources, e.g. Part-work students. Our students came to us from student councils and others and told us that they were working for a job, even a temp, and they just got texted: you don't have to come back. They had no recruitment relationship, and then they are losing what they had to run over the study period. There's a lot of uncertainty about students, both educated and academic students, because what happens to that summer? They have been able to attend jobs that have been offered in the traveling work and in other places, but they may not be available for the summer. This is a long period of uncertainty, even until the next semester. It is important that there will be actions other than these because unless students have been involved in recruitment, these measures will not be taken into them unless those who have not been associated with them directly get on unemployment terms and that is important too. How important, then, that other Kingdom - preaching activities are not yet being accomplished, but it has been proclaimed to be in the pipes, putting their arms around these delicate groups! There may not be much more I would like to say, both of them. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, head of the committee's opinion, and why. paritaprevir Helga Vala Helgadóttir, chairman of the Committee, has come in and explained the matter very well. I want to thank you again so much for the job on the committee. It was really fun working out like one man. I thank the committees and the presidents for their well-worked work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u66	Mr. President. I'd like to recommend a committee party. the welfare committee on bill to correct temporary pay due to the pay of persons who are infected under the guidance of the health authorities without showing signs of infection. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a large group of visitors, whom I am not about to list here, from various social and professional institutions; independent active individuals, artists, students, visitors, people in tourism, people from corporations, development aid, and others. The objective of the bill is to ensure that employers who are infested with payers according to official recommendations without being infected with a pay period between February 1, 2020 and April 30, 2020, can apply for pay expenses. The same is true of pay paid by the person under the stress section during the same period but is not paid by a professional driver. It is then suggested that the laws apply to internally functioning persons who suffer loss of pay as they are infected with the government's guidelines throughout the above period. The bill aims for individuals who can follow the direct instructions of the health authorities to be infected without worrying about their survival. The requirements for payment include that the hired person has not been able to do all the work or part of the place where the person is infected, i.e. has not been able to handle telecommunications. The bill is part of the response of Iceland's Government, the Association of Employment and the European Union of Iceland, as per a declaration, to the changed labour market situation to react to the Covid-19 epidemic. Only for the value range of the bill. The committee specifically discussed its values, but in Article 1. it is suggested that the law take up payment for a professional worker - so that this is quite clear - that you have paid pay from February 1 to April 30, 2020. Furthermore, the law on payment for paid people who are diseased during the same period is not paid by a professional driver for problems or loss of income. This is to ensure that, in the case of a professional worker who is unable to pay, the pay will be paid themselves. Third, the bill refers to paying for individual persons who are infected with disease beds during the same period. The committee suggested the need to expand the set of values so that they can reach the situation when a parent or guardian needs to care for a child because they are infected without the infection, and because of this, the parent cannot fully or partially care for his or her duties. It was then observed that this may mean that a child who is infected is not sick and that he needs care only because he cannot be at home alone because of his early age. In addition, it was noted that older siblings, e.g. in high school or in college, they are now at home because they are closed, so they do not need a parent's presence. That's why it wouldn't be necessary. The committee discussed this and states that according to general agreements, the right to pay more distance is due to a child's illness at 13 years of age than in this case, when it comes to infestation, it is not an illness but, in some cases, a situation that may require that a parent be at home with a child and not be able to care for his or her duties. The committee feels that despite a school malfunction, students in schools and colleges need to attend their entire school education. In view of the above, the committee correctly expands the value range of the bill in order to meet these views, and does not allow other family members to do this along their telematic or telecommunications, thus suggesting a change in the bill of the subject, i.e. that a parent or a guardian or a guardian will receive these payments for the sake of contagion. The committee also discussed the status of parents under 18 years of age who receive services under the law on the services of disabled persons with long - term needs and who have to be diseased. Some parents or other caregivers were not able to care for their duties, or they needed to reduce their employment rate because of it. The committee considers these views necessary and suggests a change in the bill in that case. Then the Committee suggests that the employment agency can call for information from rural social services in connection with this change. I call to the Senate that we are talking about an older group in this case. In general, the term "precipitation' refers to 13 - year - olds in general in collective agreements. It always speaks of 13 years of age and younger, since parents have sick rights for sick children. But when it comes to disabled persons with long - term supportive needs that need to be diseased, we have a age of 18. Why 18? Because there are certain duties to care for parents according to child law. Hence, their circumstances led to their 18 - year - old age. Children over 13 years of age who do not have supportive needs are believed to be at home under a contagion without a parent being there all day long. There was also a view that values would be extended to include parents who need to be at home with their children because of their lack of play and elementary school activities because of bans on meeting, not stress. Of course, that is what we are dealing with in the community. Now there's a breakdown in play and elementary school because of a meeting ban. This was discussed on the committee because there are different circumstances in people's lives. Some have no backlands to trade with a child who cannot get a full day of school or a full week of school or school. Especially did we talk about single - parent situations and especially the circumstances of single - parent parents who are from a foreign background and who do not have a large family network. The community has to look particularly at how we are going to meet them, since there are individuals who may also be prepared for all their holiday rights because of the strikes that have taken place and some areas still in rural areas all over the country. Even though Reykjavíkurburg is already signed, strikes are still elsewhere in other rural areas. Somehow it needs to be handled. The Commission agrees with the importance of taking into account the complex situation in which family members are in and direct ministers to check with the work that lies ahead of them because of the pandemic. Nevertheless, the decision was made on this particular matter not to expand it over all this group because we are only here, so that it is reserved for them, to deal with people who are affected by disease disorders, not with other outside factors. In the 3rd. The bill is suggested to allow the person to isolate himself, especially at home, according to the direct instructions of the health authorities when he or she has the potential to be infected with the disease but does not indicate the presence of the disease. It was noted at a meeting of the Committee that the person has the right to pay for the environment as often as such recommendations are made by a psychiatrist. This is not a single case, you may have to go for a 14 - day tab and then return to an infection one month later because of other circumstances. So this is not a single case. It was also found that if a person is identified as being diagnosed with a Covid-19, the terms of the individual's remuneration for the environment will change. At that time, standard medical conditions are under collective contracts. For a person in a district, this is the right employer to make some kind of improvement in this situation. You can imagine a small workplace where there are ten employees and five of them have to go to an environment or even the whole workplace. Sometimes it may be that five people have to go to an environment and then a total loss of income at the same time at the workplace. The workers will keep their salary intact. There, the government intervenes, so the workplace does not simply fail because of the loss of income that suffers from the loss of many employees. The committee also discussed the position of independent individuals but in Article 3. The bill is suggested that, under the definition, any person who works on his own employment or own business in the extent that he himself is required to stand monthly or in other regular ways, due a standard payment of the calculated fee and insurance fees for his job according to the government taxpayer's regulations for the calculated price. Seven. The bill is suggested that the terms for the pay of individual private workers be included. that an independent individual has an open business in addition to paying the tax paid by the taxpayer's fee and the tax remuneration paid by the tax authorities at least three months in the next four months before an application date, such as d-articular. This is what was on the bill. The Committee suggested that in general the last 12 months would be under way. The committee believes that harmony is essential to the definition of Article 3. and conditions 7. for payments and suggests that we add d-aid: or, in other regular ways, according to the government tax manager rules. We then have this 12-month arrangement, not just three months, as had been in the bill. The Commission suggests that the right of independent active individuals to the level of money pay will be comparable to the wage's rights and thus suggest that instead of 80% of his monthly income, according to the bill. We're talking about the total pay, the average income, but not just 80% for independent and 100% for remuneration. There are other changes. The committee proposes a minor adjustment of Article 10. The bill on authority to gather information so that it can be explained that the labour agency has the authority to create and follow up the necessary information in the implementation of the law, as well as the changes in the headline of this article. Finally, the commission suggests that the bill's headline changes so that the word "shows " the mark of the bill to be removed. Is this because people can show signs of being infected with Covid-19 without being it where the symptoms look like normal flu symptoms. Of course, as this stinking virus goes elsewhere, it's just like other boring ones, you always feel more likely and more likely to have every sneeze and every one of your coughs must be this Covid. So the signal cannot be a cause for rightness. You have to be infected so that normal health rights, not just having signs of being with Covid, because you can have anything else. The committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes specified in a separate document. There have been some changes that I have considered that I will not ignore, but I reviewed key changes in my talk. All members of the committee sign this case, that is the one that stands, the chairman of the Board of Health, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Katrín Friðriksson, Árnadóttir Kolbrölnadóttir, editors for this in advance, Ingi Kristinsson, Vilhjálmur Árnason Kristjándænsdótir, Halldódra Mogensen, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnúsdótir, Vilsammálmur Aarnarfjörnænarsson, and Luððurnarðður Krðurksson, are agreed to this view. At the end of this presentation of the committee's opinion, I would like to thank you very much. A welfare committee for extremely well-being jobs. It's been a very busy time before the weekend to put all of this together, something you even thought was a simple matter and needed no changes, but it called for changes in almost every aspect of the bill or as good as a number of changes. Of course, the bill came quickly to the committee, and it calls for many eyes to fix it. I would like to thank the Committee for all the work that took place there and the solidarity shown by members of the committee this week that has simply been exemplary. I'd also like to thank the many non-parties from the community who've come to the board during telecommunications, came with tips, sent us all kinds of tips by e-mails, reviews, phone calls, text messages, anything. This situation has been tremendous. Most important, I would like to thank the staff of the Generals and the committees for their great activity in the last few days. Truly, they deserve commendation and hopefully a good box of chocolates.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u67	V.E.G. President. It's not gonna be a long talk for me this time. First, I'd like to thank the head of the welfare committee, please. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir, for bringing this committee to us. One thing I'd like to share with you. The speaker mentioned in the above article on page 6 only in his talk. 2, is the position of those who have to be at home with children because of an organization they cannot handle, organize a school, or someone else where their children are sent home, and parents need to stay at their home. This means losing money for some, some people are using their orcs for this and the like, possibly having some good employers who think of this as a sick day, etc. I would have wanted the bill when it came to the council to deal with it. It says that the committee calls for a minister to look to this point and it's very good, it's a pleasure that the committee should do so. But I'd like to take advantage of this opportunity to challenge the committee, since the chairman is in the hall, to follow it closely after any suggestions from the Ministry or Ministry come up with a discussion with the committee on how to implement this, since there is a bold group of people in many parts of the country who are now at home with their children to teach them or to go above them in other ways. Then I would like to mention what some have also mentioned about the age of 13. You think it's normal to go to basic school age, that part is all in the communities in this regard. This is the two things I would like to share, so to speak. I'm sure we'll be talking more often about the convalescents and the problems that come with large amounts of contaminants and even some in isolation, but there are some things that I think we have to try to sort out the joints as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u68	Thank you. A senator before the talk and wanted to include only this discussion about the children, the families, and all that. We spent a long time trying to find a way to put our arms around this group and keep it inside. We got a visit from the Special Agents. We received tips from Psychiatry. They're closing up wards where people who have mental problems spend a long time and a shorter time going home today. The number of beds on aging institutions is falling, so elderly people are going home, requiring daily care. We started with families of children, but then when we realized that this is a bigger problem, we spoke at the highest level of the committee. A social minister told us that there is already work there to see what you can do about it. She's started off with a lot of stakeholders, with the school community, and I know that the locals are in this partnership, and I know that representatives of Development and Psychiatry, and others are in there, and a lot of stakeholders. So it's a bigger group than we could ever do in this particular case. All we had to do was deal with the contingency, and we had to squeeze the platform again and discuss it from there. I just wanted it to come. It's not a question, it's just an information present.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u69	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank a senator for this information, that's exactly the point of my magazine that I forgot to ask about, about microorganism and those who are not as lucky as the rest of us, that they can stay at home and have someone to stay with and something like that. But I'll just be waiting, and the rest of us will be waiting for what comes from the award of the Ministry of this group. If not, we simply have to wear it ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u70	A respectable president. This is a good addition to a bill that did not look complicated, but the changes may be more complex. It is wonderful to offer a salary to parents of children under 13 years of age who have been instructed to be infected. It was suggested that parents with poor school services, which are particularly difficult for single parents, as one authority pointed out in his speech, and that the right of independent active persons is also very important. Because we're about to be diseased, I'd just like to use this opportunity and dip my toes only in my statistics. Me and the Icelanders are so special about working everything out of platy-digits. Today there are 409 proven infections, and when you compare it with the United States, which has a thousand times the population in Iceland or so, it would mean some 400,000 infections in the United States. Of course, this is not the case, since the total information has confirmed the spread of infection by some 255,000 in the world. A comparison of everything that happens in Iceland with other parts of the world can be a real fun exercise, but it's also dangerous. We know, and we'll make a little bit of a joke about how we jump out of an appeal number, but when it comes to these examples, we're just a little bit down on the interesting fact that Iceland works out everything from an appeal number. When we really use it, it's gonna be a little weird. In this case, we certainly have one of the best and accurate numbers on the number of proven infections in all countries. We win these statistics well, but it is not good when it is to be used to base on some prophecy about how bad everything is or something like it. Let's be careful with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u71	Mr. President. In the beginning, I want to thank you for what I said. A well - being board for good work in this case under the direction of the chairman. What a fine example of how the two subjects we are discussing today have been accomplished and how happy we are that we will be able to handle such a complex project in such a short time! What a fine example that is and hopefully an indication of what will happen to us in the face of today's epidemic! The adjustments made are all for the better. Some of them were almost able to see the need for a transfer; others appeared at the work of the Committee. In fact, governments in the past few days have been repeatedly observed that because of the rapid change in place, it may be in very many of the cases we move here that they are almost out - of - date, at least not as specific and targeted as they would need to be, even when they come to an accounting. In such a situation as this, you can never see everything coming. There is no way to control all factors, but as speakers have come before me, the Department of Social Affairs is to try hard to catch someone who might find someone for some reason to carry a sharp object from a table because of these unprecedented circumstances. However, I don't think that a feather can be drawn over that, of course, all society in some way will have to bear burdens and even face some kind of trouble because of this. If more people come to bear them, however, the effects will be lighter. I would like to catch up on what may be more important in the changes, things to take care of children, but especially those of young ones who need to attend service on the basis of a law on serving those who are disabled with long - term support. This is a very sensitive group, and it is of enormous importance that the committee has received information from outside the community on how to respond to the situation and at the same time that the committee is in full solidarity making a decision to change these aspects of the bill. Second, the Committee's work involved considerable involvement in the position of independent individuals, who are often isolated and often in such a job that projects at the time fall, including some of the results. because of the unwillingness of many to be out among the people, one because of the meeting ban, but because of their own position. So it is very important to be more concerned with the rights of these people in the changes made by the committee. This is important, and I thought it was right, Mr. President, to deliver a message to them. Once again, I'll move what. The welfare committee, as well as members of the Parliament, has done a good job of putting the matter here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u72	It is time to vote, and it will take place under very special circumstances. In view of these circumstances, an agreement between councils has been made, sealed at a meeting of presidents of the Senate earlier, that the votes now be applied to 1 mg. 80. g. A contemporaneous saying: Then when the president has reason to believe that everyone is in one case or taken in advance, he may declare that a matter without a vote is made if no senator requires it to be carried out, and then the president's declaration will be in place of a vote. However, on the final payment of a law-enforcement project and the Senate resolution proposal, the president will have to give a vote. In this light, the plan is to arrange votes below so that changes and variations will be adopted without a vote on the basis of President's declarations, which no one will object, but then all the branches of the bill will follow, so changed, and then the originals at the end of the standard vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u73	Mr. President. I'd like to express my appreciation for this bill and thank you. The welfare committee for having worked very carefully to decommission this important matter but would like to use this opportunity to describe it here that we will need to re-evaluate this case immediately in May from the state and development of economic and employment. They may need an urgent need to extend their resources, and the government is very aware that such reassessments need to be performed. This will be one of the most important things we do to ensure the survival of labour workers in Iceland through these temporary hardships.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u74	A respectable president. I'm glad we're finishing this enormously important case here. We are ensuring the survival of people and businesses at the same time that they are going through trials. We are convinced that this resource will be used in a number of ways. in cooperation with a welfare committee, it expands very much. This includes a much larger group than it originally did, for the challenge we are facing as a community far bigger than we ever dreamed of. With that thought, we are convinced that we will get through this together, and I encourage both companies and employees to take advantage of these provisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u75	A respectable president. On behalf of the Party of the Central Party, I would like to present their views here that it is a pleasure to have this matter so rapidly going through the council and with the changes made to the welfare committee. However, I would like to give attention to these two discussions. First, in the Middle Ages, we feel that it would have been wise to raise the roof more than it did. Total pay is raised from 650,000 to 700,000. We feel that it would have been wise to walk at least up to 950,000 dollars. which would have been an indicator improvement in the number from 2009. Then came in just before, to all members of Congress, from the President of the All German Union of Iceland, which I believe is essential for a health committee to consider at the first opportunity, with a view to the need for some adjustment that involves the status of fish workers. Other than that, I express my satisfaction that the matter is going through here in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u76	Mr. President. I'm not going to have a long talk or a thank - you list. I'm just going to refer to what was presented earlier today. Because of the information we now received from concerned voices on the rights of fish farmers, I want to be righted that in a committee program, the rights of fish farming workers are specifically addressed. In particular, we spoke about that group and were referred to as sources of assurance that payers who receive the law on the payment of employment insurance from commercial workers will be no worse off than other employees after remuneration of this bill. This law is about employment-free insurance, which is a special non-employment insurance fund for fish workers, and it was given assurance that by a regulations change, fish farmers would get the same rights as other employees in the country. I refer to the Committee, which, of course, is difficult for many, but I would like to say here that the agreement of the legislatator is that fish farmers have the same rights as other employees in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u77	Mr. President. I thank you for the good solidarity and the fine work being done on the welfare committee with this case. The management of the Committee has made a big difference, ensuring that this will be a much more difficult tool for employment and home. I believe that we are accepting here a case that can be of great help in softening the impact the economy is going through in these difficult times. At a council, we still need to stay awake. This work may be very fast, and as we experience it, we may need to make further adjustments and adjustments in this matter. It's a good thing, as it has come from the management of a welfare committee, and I support it wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u78	President. I wanted to say that there's been a lot of changes in the bill. Most of the information that Pirantar and I have received was given but I would like to mention that there is a small group now below 45% work ratio, and it seems that this group will not be covered. The work ratio needs to be reduced by 20% and then it is not allowed to be below 25% to receive this support. This has to be very clear. A worker may read that he cannot be below 25%, but he must not have dropped. Lowering must be minimally reduced by 20%. We noted this, but we were not responding, although moving the ratio from 50 to 25 meant that, as it was appropriate, had to be at 70% or more in order to use it. Now it's 45% or more. It was said that under those circumstances very few members were killed, but you can ask: "Why not just remove the 25% or the 20% rule so that they can reach everyone even if they're doing less part-time work than 45%? [[The president calls.]] Otherwise, there's a lot of good things in this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u79	Mr. President. This bill is based on an agreement I signed for the government to represent the National Association of Employment and the National Association of Iceland. As is the case today, nearly 4,200 persons are infected by the recommendation of a disinfectant. It was necessary to meet the job life and labor movement to ensure the survival of those in the contagion and thus to carry out their duty to the general health - care provider's views of preventing the spread of the virus. I'm so glad this case is here for release. Of course, in the long run, it is important that we set lasting rules on how to set payments for districts, as most other countries have. There were no such laws in Icelandic legislation as opposed to my credit. The welfare committee for work, the highest. The Minister of Social Affairs who presented the case as well as the partners of the labour market for successfully solving this issue with us governments.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u80	A respectable president. I'm glad we're voting on this matter, as the prime minister introduced, that the government's declaration and the labour market bodies are working to ensure that the individuals who have to be diseased are subject to the recommendation of a disease - care professional are guaranteed by an euthanasia. I also thank the welfare committee for the processing of this case and the changes made in the matter in good cooperation with the committee. I think it's a very important matter, and considering the number of people in this section today, it's important that this bill support the procedures proposed by a psychiatrist.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-79.u81	Mr. President. I think we've done a very good job, but necessary changes in the bill that came into the council. We managed to take larger groups, i.e. Also, parents of children who have to go under a fever. We increased the pay rates for independent employers and more, so I think this bill is as good as possible to ensure those who have to go to an environment and also ensure that those who pay the contracts of the persons who are in an environment at these strange times. I welcome the solidarity that is obviously showing up here at the council.
