ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-123.u1	The president wants to report that at a meeting of the Commission and Control Committee, June 22, we have a meeting. Jón Þór Ólafsson was elected president of the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-123.u2	V.E.G. President. Parents can hardly think worse than if they lost their child. Thus, when that happens, the shock becomes intense. We know that people react differently, but during the first few months, even the first year, the future is a great deal, how they deal with their grief and shock. Some may have to seek help and may not be able to work for a while, which is understandable to all of us. In such a situation, mourning ones, or the parents in this case, find that their income falls in part or in all respects. To me, it is our duty as a community to support the few parents who lose their children each year. I appreciate it so that the cost is negligible. Happily, it is not common in our society for parents to lose their children. We have a good health system, so we save many children. Then some parents work out their grief in another way, i.e. Even to work, etc., so the cost can be expected to be negligible. To me, though, it is hardly possible for parents to be affected by a great loss of income because of their child's loss, and they need time to cope with grief without economic ruin. I think a minister is a positive person for some of the social security systems being involved in helping the parents who need it. So I ask the minister: Is there any work or bill about parents mourning who lose children at the Ministry? And if so, where does that work? How does the minister see that mourning too matches with the physical rights that are guaranteed in the general labour agreements? What arrangement enables a minister to see that the grieving process would be carried out? Is it known how large a group of parents averaged each year that they may need such vacations? [[The president calls.]] Could it be that more groups of mourning ones have comparable rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-123.u3	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry and agrees with him when he says that nothing worse could be thought of than losing one's children at an early age. Hv. A senator raised some questions in this regard, first of all, whether a job is started at the Ministry to prepare a bill for a tragic storm or something to react to it. It can be explained that in February of February, work began to map out how practical it would be to do so in this country. We've been working on intelligence and more inside the Ministry. This work has shown that some 20 children under the age of 18 will pretend each year. Well, as the senator says, it's not a big number, but you still feel that 20 is very high. We have also been considering the way our neighbors do this. These suggestions have been discussed in the Danish Parliament, where specific applications have been considered. In this year, 2020, Britain legalizes two weeks of grieving, and in other legislation, two to five days of holiday rights can be found at the hands of victims, without special attachment to children. It cannot be said that this place can be found, that there is one rule in this matter. This is not absolute if we compare ourselves with our neighboring countries. The Ministry has had cooperation and conversation with the Belorussium on this bill. We planned to start a formal job in the spring months, but it's been delayed for Covid. The idea was to appoint a group of all major stakeholders in this regard in order to discuss how this would be viewed, the process, and so on. When it comes to the questions about the arrangement the senator was pointing to me, including When it comes to health rights for transplant recipients and how the interaction would be done, it is not really time to define it precisely. Rather, it was thinking that it happened in the conversation that followed. However, it may be suggested that the support of the hospital should be given in mourning, regardless of the medical condition of the employee, at any rate my opinion, so that it would be added to the disease rights guaranteed by wage candidates in general labour agreements. Regarding the way that men envision it, the length of the time it should be, and the kind of thing, I think it is also something that needs to be implemented at this job. The same is true of the fourth question the senator raised to minister, whether these should include more groups of mourners, and which groups should then use comparable rights. When you don't start a conversation about bill or a process, it's also one of the things we need to talk about. You may then, for example. Consider young people aged 183/425. What are we going to do about them? Because while the person is not a child by the law, he is still a youth. And sometimes younger siblings in the family, and youths still live at home, etc. Even though my children are 18 years old, I still feel that they are children. Similarly, there has been a parent's situation that loses his or her mate from children, whether it is not a reason to examine that group as well as the surviving parent may take the first few weeks and the months to focus on taking care of themselves in the grief that comes along and does not need to worry financially. Likewise, children who suffer the consequences of the death of a parent need to be considered. The case is early, but we've done some data work. We planned to start a job on springtime. It hasn't started yet, but I hope that it will be soon, so when it comes to the next winter or soon the next winter, we will see some ideas coming out of the extensive conversation of all the stakes that could make it happen. I am very confident that this is being reviewed and that I agree with all that was presented in the opening debate. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-123.u4	Mr. President. Thank you for your request. She's beautiful, coming from an unexpected direction. Thank you. A senator for serving it here because he's absolutely right, it's a devastating shock to lose a child, whoever gets it. Even when economic worries are not added, we are very busy dealing with them. Sadly, this situation affects many relationships completely. If there was one group I'd point out to. A minister should take note of what seems to be the start of the Ministry, which I am very pleased about, if it were the parents who lost a full - time child. It is the same shock, but it is the same grief that needs to be solved. It doesn't leave a man, and I encourage ministers to keep that group in mind, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-123.u5	A respectable president. I'd like to sit down and say thank you. The leader of Brunn Níelsson's son for presenting the inquiry and the highest. Minister for starting work and preparation. I agree that it is painful, and it is heavier than tears, when young children leave their lives. It is as if the heavens fell over the families involved, and it is not just one or two, it is the whole family. It is important to give financial support, but there are so many other things to come about. It must be stressed to give psychological support, to give people the opportunity to express themselves, and to live through this great ordeal. In historical light, the church has played an important role there, and our health care has begun by such means that we have, for example, been able to do so. It's just increasing the number of psychologists in there. Social advisers also play a vital role in this regard. [[The president calls.]] This is good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-123.u6	Mr. President. I want to be like others to thank the captain very much for the questions. This is a matter worth calling attention to. I would have liked to hear from a minister when he saw that a matter could be submitted or at least received a case that would address the problem or situation, or what we should call it. paritaprevir The Brynjar of Níelsson's son shines up here. I'd appreciate it if a minister could give us some idea of when he would imagine that we would see a matter of Congress taking place in that situation or the events that happen to people who experience such grief.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-123.u7	V.E.G. President. I'm very happy to hear that the Minister of Social Affairs is considering these matters. Of course, they need to be examined in a larger context. I believe that to help with the loss of a mate who lives in a home, it might be important to help in that situation. I view it as truly social interests for people to cope with the shock to the future. I agree entirely that the matter needs to be considered carefully and examined, even taking it in some step. But I still appreciate it that it is necessary, and the cost is insignificant, even of great benefit, that it pays many times and that all the costs are going to come right back. Because it came whisk. paritaprevir SæmundssonÞorsteinn great surprise that my query came from me, I can quite clearly tell that in my former professions, such cases were at my table, and you felt how difficult and difficult it was, and a lot of real damage, both financial and spiritual. I reiterate that I view it as a lot of community interests to be involved in this work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-123.u8	A respectable president. I agree only with those members of the council who have spoken here and mixed up in the discussion on the importance of the matter. I believe that the costs of this are not really costs, but we are preventing the cost that society will have to deal with later if this is not done. I think it is also part of the changes that have occurred in recent decades. In the past, they just said, "Hey, you're just gonna toughen up, don't bullshit yourself." We are seeing social consequences and physical consequences, however, because society does not intervene and helps people survive trauma, and that is what this is all about, allowing people to be able to cope with the difficult traumas of losing a child or for parents to lose a mate from children. No other way you can place costs is for you than to look at the benefits it can achieve over a longer period of time. All I want to do is celebrate the inquiry and then the question. The senator should pick it up here and welcome the fine discussions that have been on the subject. In particular, the question was, When would a minister imagine that these outlines could enter the council? We had assumed that when we started our work in February, we could arrange that group in March, and then we planned to have him work until summer, and we could bring a bill in the fall. However, when Covid-19 came up, we pushed all the cases aside in the Ministry, thinking only of a Covid-related case, and, unfortunately, this was one of the cases we had to postpone, but we've been starting since mid May. I have the ability to appoint a group that, in the next winter, might be able to produce suggestions and possibly we could bring a bill to the spring council of 2021, if all works out. But I appreciate the discussion and thank you for the inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-123.u9	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for coming to this discussion. It seems that the type of trade with apartment loans was in many ways more adverse than with other creditors; higher interest rates, inferior terms. There is especially one type of loan I've been dealing with and how I react to people, also because of other transactions with the apartment loans I've had. People have been asking me how it could be borrowing that I think was taken in 2009-2010, which, according to my authority, is up to 16%, as well as a interest of 5.16.5.5% plus price insurance. That means that people who have this loan are totally locked up. It is very expensive to reimburse the loans on account of the payment price, and it is also inhibited in selling real estates by loans like that resting on it. Nobody wants to buy. The questions I raise with a minister give evidence that I, in part, tried to get this information out of the apartment loan fund. It went very well. But the questions are: 1st How many of the active loans of the apartment loans are worth money? 2. In what years were such loans offered? 3. How much is the loan total? And the key question: 4. Will a minister take advantage of his terms so that he will be more favorable for the loans of the above loans? I realize that if there's such a change in terms of terms, it's going to end up at a government fund. I can't remember any better, and I'll be corrected, but now that the Covid-19 situation began, one of the measures the government wanted to do for the public was to encourage people to make bad loans. The example I present here is perfect for doing it. I take into account that the camp loan fund is borrowing on areas that others don't lend on, I realize completely that it's not quite black and white. But when you can get a securities loan that carries 2% interest, even less, plus insurance, it's got to suck for people to sit on these loans and, as I say, sit on property that has such loans. That's why I'm very interested in getting a minister's response to whether he's going to do something for this group that I can now hear about how big it is. I look forward to hearing his reaction to my inquiry.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-123.u10	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. First, I want to say that the detailed information I have about this case is from 2019, and the whole answer is seen by the changes made at the end of the last year in which the camp loan fund was divided into two activities, with the goal of separating particularly the older ones and the financial management from other funds. At the same time, the other part was a integrated Manning Institute and was formed as a Homing and Civilization Institutes and, under that field, the part of the operation of the Substitution Fund is in accordance with the role of the fund following changes in housing laws made in the shape of housing policy, distribution of stock structure, etc. Then it's divided into an IL fund, but under its scope, the section of the Substitute Bank falls toward the publishing of funds, older loans, property management, and other factors. At the same time, the object moved to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which says the IL Fund, but HMS, the Homology and Civilization Organization, is still under the Minister of Social Affairs and Childhood under Presidential decision. For the queries, i.e. The number of active loans of the Substitute Bank is 5,641 loans that carried this payment fee. I don't know what the situation is today because this has actually gone to the Ministry of finance. June 30 was the total amount of these loans 73.6 billion. The same is true of them, so it has changed because, after this transfer to the Ministry of finance, it is expected to have continued on these loans. Then we will ask: What years were such loans offered? They were granted from 2005, and their publication was terminated when consumer loans law went into effect on November 1, 2013. These are the sum of loans published in 2005Howto2013. All the loans that have been paid after that time do not carry these regulations and loans that are being given today from the Homological and Human Resource Institutes, nor do they. Then it is asked if a minister intends to promote a probationary change so that it will be more favorable for the loans listed above to pay them up. I brought it into my entrance earlier that a minister can promote it, but the fund, the IL, is actually under the direction of the secretary of finance. He moved there, along with all the money that came with those payments too. Of course, the fund was funded with bonds, including bonds. from pension funds, which were then loaned to individuals. It's all moved to IL Fund, and it's a financial minister who has rights, obligations, property and commitments to this fund as he is. It was a natural arrangement when the bill was adopted, with mainly the management of these parts, but not the actual task of a new DC as stated in the Act adopted by the General Assembly at the end of the last year. As a result, a social minister is not authorized to deal with these assets because they are on the hands of financial ministers. Nevertheless, I hope that some of the minute details I went over here from 2019 C.E. to some extent ask questions. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-123.u11	Mr. President. I cut by the highest. The minister referred, and I'm not saying it's wrong for the Minister, the questions presented to much of the Ministry of finance. It's natural to get queries through here and go to the wrong places. I guess it's gonna be time to ask the secretary of finance the same questions again. However, I wondered if a minister who lives in the government with the highest degree. Secretary of the budget, plans to make any changes in terms of terms. House - to - house reports continue at the highest level. Minister of social and child-care, so the Minister can certainly exert himself within the government for these things to be changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-123.u12	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister very much for the answers. I'd like to agree with the person who before I spoke that, of course, a man would want to sharpen the Minister's case to pick up the case at the government table and point it to the highest level. Secretary of the budget that what you're asking for will be done. In fact, I am surprised at how many effective loans depend on these conditions, that over 5,600 people are stuck with them. The loans are complete dinosaurs, considering today's financial market. It's hard to believe that if my information about 16% of payment is correct, then it costs 1.6 million to get rid of 10 million. K. loans and there's a little heavy cross carrying, I think, for everyone, and I think everybody can see themselves in it. Other than that, these answers are the subject of a new inquiry to the right secretary, who, of course, must be submitted. But I would like to use this opportunity to encourage the highest. Social Affairs Minister to record the case in the meantime at the highest level. The minister of finance to see if he or she, or the minister of finance, will be unable to take part in correcting the injustice in this situation. I say again: Those who are locked up with these loans are not only having trouble paying them up but also making it more difficult to sell possessions with such fragrant loans. I can't imagine an apartment with a loan like this being a good trade product in view of the circumstances we are living in today. So I encourage a minister to take this up with his colleagues, but thank him otherwise for his answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-123.u13	A respectable president. A minister accepts encouragement. Congress officials in charge of this and will record it. But when it moved over, it also moved a huge amount of cash; the IL fund as it was, the loans, these 5,600 loans, and then bonds, which were probably mostly at the pension fund, which was the financing, and the cash that was involved. So, in fact, the decision is, in what way the cash would be spent, whether it would function in any way in order to eliminate the pay - there should be room for that, but it is clear that the government would take it for a long time. I still reiterate that the 5,640 loans there are at the half-year production of 2019, just so that it is stated again, because, in fact, a Housekeeping and Engineing Institute has not been accurate information about the state of the year 2020, and it is very likely to have decreased to some extent, though it is difficult to tell exactly how much it has been, if something has fallen. As a result, the total amount of medicine was also reduced. Other than that, I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry and, as well as an introduction from a member of his team, regarding the matter.
