ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u1	Mr. President. The world scene has changed considerably since we felt it was at least 2 years old. as we focused on the battle between Western and Eastern nations. Lately, the talk in the Middle East and the participation of the superpowers there, especially in the United States, Russia, and China, has been a significant one. When Trump enters the scene, things change and may have put us with the United States allies in a difficult position. He says one thing today and another tomorrow, which makes it a major factor in the international community. The Foreign Minister came to the State Department yesterday to discuss the affairs of the Iran and the Middle East and very interesting things that were presented in his answers, of course not being able to repeat here, but some of which I feel that they should be brought into this hall and even to the whole nation. It'll wake up, for example. Some attention have been given to the United States's legitimate execution of the second - largest man in Iran. Without going to carry a volleyball from that man, we know that the slightest step in this complex power could result in a chain reaction. Therefore, I must ask the minister directly and ask him to answer the matter very clearly because it matters: Do Ministers believe that there was a legitimate attack?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u2	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Because of what? A senator referred to the State Department yesterday, and I believe it is of utmost importance that representatives of the government stand by to speak to the nation what they say at their meetings, because I think it is most relevant to the nation. Here we are talking about serious matters in this area, and me and Iceland have always been among the Western nations, we are in the Atlantic Union, and we join them, we are in the European Economic Area, and EFTA, etc. I think it's very important for people to talk clearly about the nature of their policy as to which they are already involved. I think the voters have a right to do that. About what question? A senator, and he says that he does not carry volleyball from the man who was killed in that shrinking attack. A senator was not right in saying that we had shown no response. They have been completely in the spirit of what we see in our friends and alliances. Then I am especially referring to the northern countries, and I can refer also to other European countries. That's where we've been and that's where we're going to stay.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u3	Mr. President. That was a bit vague. The situation at such meetings provides questions and, of course, the main issue for the Icelandic nation is what Iceland's foreign policy is. In many respects, it is unclear. Danes have taken a very clear green foreign policy. Swedes feminist. Find policy is very clear. We are, in fact, less clear and disintegrating, and we may be dedicated to it because there are very different categories in the government when it comes to foreign affairs. I'd like to ask a minister if it has any effect. But I must ask, and I'm not going to give the highest. A minister's chance to avoid making that clear, but I felt that the answer to the meeting yesterday was much clearer: Does he feel that the procedure was legitimate or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u4	A respectable president. Hv. A senator will come up here and say that there is something unclear about Iceland's foreign policy. Says one of the northern countries has a green policy. She's been prominent in Iceland's foreign policy, hasn't she? Has a what? A senator's not paying any attention? Hv. A senator also points to equality. Wait, Mr. Honorable President, what? There's a senator on the foreign matter board. Is he really arguing that this government did not stress the environment, especially the climate, and the equal issues? That's what I'm talking about. Is that really true of a senator? It's just a special subject for research. A senator would not have noticed the emphasis that appears everywhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u5	... answer the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u6	In terms of the alleged legitimateness of these attacks, we have been in exactly the exact same place as the nations I referred to, and we have taken no particular position to do so other than that we have encouraged setting things up, when it comes to political solutions. At the same time, a respectable president, so to speak, the Irish have been extremely challenging, not to be further advanced, and we covered it well at a meeting of the foreign committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u7	Mr. President. Us senators have warned us at the highest. Environment and resource minister are now traveling through the country presenting their largest and most important issues, a central nation park. At the same time, we see that opposition, especially among the governments or their supporters and even the members of the members of the administrations, is considerable. I wondered if the Minister is a bit on his own with this case, whether there can be no support for this central nation park and what goes with it, the prospective National Park too, is not there. Could it be that the case, as it came from this group or group of people, has not been possible for anyone to accept it? So I ask the minister if he really believes that the matter will go through the council on the subject he has agreed on. Will the minister without question demand that the center of national and national parks be agreed together? Is it wrong to think that the Minister would make a big contribution when it comes to this big case, in his opinion, at least? Does the minister believe that it is possible to meet the criticism we have already heard from members of the administrations and even members of the administrative body at this point? Is it so that the minister believes that in the agreement of the administrations, the matter is now clear at this council? And if not at this council when? It is very important that we have the Minister's vision of whether the government is really about to complete this case and then the government groups. It is also good to know how much the minister of this matter goes out. I've been thinking about it a little while ago when I see that the management guys are running away from the case, reminding me of how certain species run in every direction and try to run away. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister of these questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u8	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the inquiry. There are speculations. A senator, and perhaps it will be easier to answer them in general so that I will make the matter a subject in the spring. He mentioned two cases of government both in the Constitution, in the highland park, and in the national park, and I will present them at the same time. It is fun to reflect on the points mentioned by the senator. In particular, this is naturally one of the cases in the government covenant. It was arranged for a transverse committee on this very issue to attract as many political voices as possible. I noticed that it was a party brother. The senator, who felt unable to sign the report given by the committee, did so by all the other members of the council. It tells me that there is an agreement on the matter here at the council. There's an agreement to keep it going. This is a big, important case. This is a matter that will enhance Iceland's competitiveness. This is a case that will increase jobs in the inhabited earth. This is a case that will promote international tourism, and this is a case that will increase natural protection in the country, especially in the protection of the uninhabited land, so this is certainly the case of the man in this country. But as I say, I stress that this will be held at spring convention and, of course, hope that it will run out in the spring. But it is only the council that will address these matters when they enter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u9	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. Yes, it is true that a representative of the staff or committee that discussed these ideas did not trust to sign this report, and as a minister points out, everyone else signed it. Is it true that by signing the report, everyone else, including the administrative groups, has made a commitment to finish the case on the basis of the report? I don't understand a minister's words any other than he thinks it's a deal, it's a deal that this case will end. It doesn't quite agree with what I hear from other members of the board or from the rest of the board. That's why I'm gonna ask a secretary again if he has a guarantee that this case will end. Of course, it is very tempting to find out, and a minister dictates whether he will answer, how much will the minister of this matter, whether he may be willing to invest so much in the matter that if he doesn't get through with it, he will be replaced by the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u10	V.E.G. President. As I said earlier, this is a government contract. That's why. A senator knows about this. I work for the government contract. I've introduced this matter to the government and to members of the government. The situation may change, as it may be, when issues first come out and then are put into practice. We've got about 70 reviews. There is great interest in this matter, and the support for it is very wide. There have also been reports of criticism, as we all know. I'd like to mean that both the committee and then us now, with a donation to the bill, have met many of the comments and concerns that have been presented, including ... found all over the country. It is a continuing responsibility to meet the challenges there to ensure this issue's continued progress. And of course, I give it a lot of thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u11	Mr. President. The establishment of a highland park is one of the priorities of the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Today, the national park's laws have been passed by the government's consultations, the deadlines have passed, and nearly 70 reviews have been received. The highest will be expected. In view of possible changes, a minister and his people are considering them, and as a result, there have been meetings throughout the country to introduce them. Critics have been a bit loud and remarkable mainly from the ranks of the governments, their camps. Criticism, including Critics, is turning. that the park will severely impair its planning and custody within its borders and to its territory council, which may include: Working a management and protection program for the park, if there's a higher-level local government, and if there's a difference in their authority on important matters. At the same time, there are voices saying that the rural governments of small rural communities will control everything in which they make more part of the park and if anyone should disagree with the administration, they are inhabitants of urban areas that have no authority over a country that is supposed to belong to the common estate of the nation. But it's not what's interfering with the governments. My question is, what's the highest? Environment Ministers believe it will succeed if the requirements of a branch team of unions of greener greens in the government for the complete and uncircumcised decision-making and organizational authority of the communities that have the right to live in the region will be realized. Will the idea that the Environment Minister has of the highland park, the idea that he has worked hard to develop, come true? Will there be an idea of a high-land national park set out without any warning in the government Treaty if any group that has access to those nations that land within the park's boundaries continues to have full organizational and decision - making authority?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u12	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his inquiry. For a discussion at which point. A senator is, in fact, the organizational authority of the rural communities in this area. I'd like to start by leading us to the experience of a Lake Earth park. When it comes to managing things, there are many waters of a global park, an enormously interesting approach that we do not know very much else because it is democratic. This is a approach in which local authorities, environmental groups, outdoors, and tourism groups come to create policies for the national park's territory. It's been going very well, and these policies have been so well developed at this stage that even a number of problems have not occurred. That is the experience we look to when we are building a system of government for a new highland park. Actually, we're adding that a representative of farmers also comes into this group that I think is important, especially because large areas are going to be added where farmers are using this country. So the experience of a Lake Earth will benefit us into the administrative arrangement we're drawing up. If we compare today's rural power with what they would have after that change, it is, in turn, less because today, natural states and rural communities decide on what kind of projects will be under attack on the areas, and so it will continue. Well, except for now, like a cot. A senator mentioned that the rural communities, as suggested today, are in part in these regional or district councils, and that they have a lot to tell what decisions are made when a government and protection plan is implemented, which is a plan for the national park and the organizational authorities should certainly consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u13	President. Thank you very much. The minister's answer is to interpret it as saying that to my question it is no. That's what this needs to be, if the idea is to be developed. I'd like to go somewhere else. This week, the highest part was introduced. Prior to February, the prime minister's revised Constitution of the government until spring shows that the policy is to submit a bill for a high national park, a National Park bill and National Park and National Parks and a Senate resolution proposal for a Preservation and Energy Administrative Program. It is clear that these obvious differences within the governments of the government's highland park are not only in the custody of organizational matters but perhaps least, even though there is less word now, in matters related to energy efficiency and activation within the national parks. The bill on a highland park will include, for example, as noted and not abnormal, stricter requirements for the construction of new fortresses. Today, the 23rd January and the national race is about to begin. My question to the highest. The Environment Minister is simply this: Are the suggestions presented in the revised Constitution of these matters within the next month practical? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What's the plan B for Environment Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u14	V.E.G. President. I'm going to allow me to tell everyone's highland park, not just the government. Hv. A senator was now a member of the great commission so I'd like to mean that it's all of us, and, of course, not just us here at the council but all the people of the country. It is true that I intend to add three cases to the council, more or less at the same time, the highland park, national parks, and a frame plan simply because they are bound to an unbreakable bond, as did the senator in which he came in so nicely. I hope we can work fast and well with the comments that have been made and that this will be done by the end of February as planned. Let's just ask if it's gonna be February 28th or it's gonna be a little late in March. But on February 28, - I think we need to take a little time until then, and we work hard at the Ministry. I hope we can talk about this at the council as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u15	A respectable president. Remunerations for the illegal deficiency of pensions have been carried out. In this chair it was claimed that the reimbursement came mainly to those with the highest pensions. That was determined repeatedly. Now I've got the statistics on this conclusion, and if we look at the results, I break down, it was mostly, like, 25,000 persons of 29,000, to individuals with less than 300,000 bucks. per month. They're the ones with 300,000 bucks. During a month of high-priests in the eyes of this government? We need to realize that the largest group under that group, 10,500, is a population of under 100,000 dollars. A pension fund. There are 23,000 jars. missed a month. And how much money do they save during this time, in two months? We need to realize that it's under 2.6 billion in two months before 300,000 bucks. If we take only 100,000 bucks. We are talking about less than 3 billion. And look at the bank tax, the hunting fees, and think to us, "Why on earth, and I want an answer from a minister, he claimed, and was wrong, that this would only be for the highest wages?" And why, on the other hand, haven't they made it through the fact that people with less than 100,000 from a pension fund are not affected?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u16	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for this inquiry. Because he testifies to our conversation in the Senate last year as far as this is concerned, it is absolutely clear that the person here said that he did not regret it, and he has said everywhere what would go to the lowest of the tequilas. The senator mentions the number of people who receive this and what amount, and everything is correct. But it is also so that the largest part of it flows to two of the largest tenths, not in a number of individuals, but in the total amount of correction. The total amount of this correction is about 6 billion. It would be interesting if the senator could read up here the sum of the state's funds to give to the top two earners of this group. The individuals who received the highest remuneration - I don't have these papers in front of me - did not receive that amount as much as I did. A senator mentioned. They were the ones in the highest income space. Hundreds of thousands of them were corrected for this judgment, and that was true of them. former senators, former executives of an enterprise, those with a huge pension fund, who were fully improved in January and February. It's the money left behind. The 3 billion who went to the top of the income field would have been better protected by the lowest groups, such as. the group we're working on now. It costs about 400 million to improve the position of those who have nothing, to have no right in the pension system, and it could have been paid eight years for what the top two earners get there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u17	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister is short of answers. We're talking about 4 billion of that to the under 400,000,500,000. Is that high-payers? The others get 1 million. This is your job. You can change this whenever you want. But putting it this way - and in this context I would like to point out that since 2015 the rate of decline in sensibilities has increased from 36 billion to 44 billion, or about 7.5 billion, and from 10.5 billion to 16 billion, about 5.5 billion. The total increase is over 12 billion. You're increasing the decline systematically, and then you're going to defend yourselves by doing this to protect the underpayers because otherwise the high-payers get so much. You can put the law in such a way that high-payers will be impaired, but the rest will not.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u18	The President reminds the senators to direct their case to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u19	A respectable president. I say again what I said earlier that I don't regret any of the money that goes on account of this sentence to the lowest of the earners. However, when the top income tenants receive large amounts of money, up to 600,000,700,000 bucks, individuals who have been always on the Ministers or on the executives or anything else, they are the money I regret because we could have used them in another way. I've always said that I don't regret the lowest groups and the case that was run in my time - I don't regret the money that went into it, by no means. But it's the peripheral effect of this court that the top income tenants get that amount I would've wanted to do differently. The State could not have intervened to change it because judgment and judgment must be recognized as done by the judge. These groups received higher amounts of money. That was also why the State wanted to make changes in these matters and went on to defend this case before the courts. [[The president calls.]] It wasn't because people were sorry for what went to the lowest groups, it was the presidents, the senators, and those who had the highest rights that also received the sum I regret. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u20	A respectable president. I'm glad the Minister has only been warmed up. I would like to speak to the minister of the third optional book of the United Nations Children's Convention, which was adopted in 2011, as it is about the child's criminal rights to the United Nations Children's Court of Childhood. On the other hand, we do not allow the Icelanders to take advantage of the legal route to approach this child - justice committee, even though we boast that we are represented there. The government also has the Children's Minister, whom I'm asking here, which gives us some indication of the affairs of the government. Children's manager also recommends the approval of this third optional accounting with the United Nations Children's Convention. It contains, for example, Shows that there is a domestic deficiency in the judiciary system that the paediatric treaty is developing, and this lawsuit is working to strengthen. With this emphasis on the government, that we have a child - care minister, that we have a representative of the Commission referred to, with the support of an agent of children, and that it is right to mention the support of the agent of the children of other countries, is it not proper to begin the induction of the third optional book, although only to complete the procedure that we are to have in this country in the judiciary system for children?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry and the answer to it is simple: Yes. I'm just going to explain more clearly what's going on here. Sadly, only a fraction of the nations who have introduced the children's covenant, who have introduced the third optional book, and the government is now working on it, just to be said. Last year, I adopted a proposal made by the government to work on how we could expand our participation in children and the potential for children to seek justice and make their voices heard. In this work, we have cooperated with the agency of our children and with the National Association of Young People, an umbrella group of young people in the country, whether political or juvenile movements of political parties or sports or other sports functions. The agreement made by the government was that the Ministry was to work on a plan how we were going to ensure this increased arrival. We have been working on this, and in the following few weeks we will present a timed program on it not only when and how we will introduce the third optional United Nations Protocol but rather how we will take even greater steps in ensuring that children's voices are heard and heard, both in connection with the children's covenant and in how we can take the lead among the nations in this regard. The third optional book depends on that job. I want to thank the senator for the urgency, and I look forward to the time when we introduce that schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u22	A respectable president. That answer makes me happy. There's one thing I'd like to say. There is now a emphasis on child - care, child rights, child protection in this government with the development of the Minister of Child Affairs, but for this case to actually survive in the course of government, there is not much left in this term, and who knows what will follow, it would not be reasonable for the council to conclude on this process or on this process to ensure the continuation of the next governments, and it has come to a more formal place, but only within the government where it seems to be now?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u23	A respectable president. The Senate can, of course, conclude everything they want to conclude about, that is not a minister who controls it. The third optional book is important, and it's good, but I think we need to examine it in a larger context. What we are working to do now is to examine in a larger context how we are going to ensure not only that children can seek their rights and bring matters to the Child Rights Committee but also how we can ensure that our system, both government level and national government, will ensure increased consultation with children and young people. This third optional publication is actually just one part of the work we're doing, and it may well be the most reasonable when it all comes out and will be presented to the council to get the approval of all classes in order to survive this matter. That's what this group deserves, that we get him out of our daily political pits. This case must live between terms and governments. In fact, this government intends to continue its next election period, so it does not matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u24	Mr. President. I spoke before in unsubstantiated requests for leadership. Unprepared inquiry is a very important feature and opportunity to draw forward the direction and opinions of the individual minister and the general government. A committee meeting is another field where we can also communicate with a minister. It is very important, though, that the Ministers agree when they arrive on the other hand at committee meetings and, on the other hand, here in the Hall of Congress, I do not talk about it in the past 24 hours. I don't think a minister was that this time. Now it may be that I'm limited to the fact that I read his comments at a committee meeting yesterday rather than here. The doubt must exist until a minister returns to the State Department meeting and makes clear his views, and I will, of course, call for it now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u25	The president has certain doubts about continued communication. Foreman and chief. A minister is at home with this program, and perhaps they should take their own words literally and discuss this more fully with a foreign - language committee than here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u26	A respectable president. Not exactly because of this, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is very easy to communicate with a minister, not just in unsubstantiated inquiries, but in a special discussion and it would not be bad if it were to be done. I'd like to encourage all those here who are talking about what's going on at committee meetings or other things and because of that. A senator would likely refer to my recommendations, they are written, they can be read again at other committee meetings. I'd still like to encourage you, though. Councilmen to discuss foreign affairs more in the Assembly Hall, including in a special discussion, hoping that they will be well addressed to that challenge. It is also possible to do so in the media. I think that's a very good idea too. It's just this kind of general motivation in connection with President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u27	A respectable president. It matters how both senators and Ministers use this important team, unprepared inquiries, in an effort to inform matters and with members of the council who ask ministers with full hopes of getting answers, not just lobster and ha, and answer with some exit. All right, here was a query by reason of the question. paritaprevir Logi, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Einarsson. There was a reason. In addition to other committees of the Parliament's committees, it is the responsibility to cooperate and to have a conversation with the minister of foreign affairs, and it is sobering to consider one thing when it comes to a meeting of foreign policy and another not answered at the Senate or certain points. If I've understood why. paritaprevir Logi Einarsson was right then asking again for a meeting of the Committee's Foreign Minister, and I would like to be very supportive of his request as I urged the president to reiterate the matter with the Minister to answer the questions of the members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u28	The president's main success is to try to prevent any material discussion on subjects that have been part of the program, such as questions in unsubstantiated question period, living after life in discussions about the President's conference board. That's all the president is trying to keep in mind with a fair recommendation to members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u29	Mr. President. Yeah, I'm fine with those kind proposals. But I came up here to announce that I would have to call for another meeting with a minister because I don't think the answers here are consistent with those at the Committee meeting. Of course, it is of prime importance that as long as the minister does not ask the issue of confidentiality over his words, they must be able to appear to the council and to the whole nation, I do not speak about the enormous importance of foreign affairs and about Iceland's foreign policy and events that can affect us forever. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u30	Mr. President. We have had the privilege of having a powerful, well - trained, productive fishing field and a fish - control system that has contributed to high economic management, increased valuableness, and the well - being of this vital work, of which, of course, is of great importance. But in parallel with the developments that have been in the fishing industry and certainly the neglect of these fishing systems, which have been debated for a long time, such as extensive compression in the article, its impact on the land's habitats, the reduction in the number of outputs, and the growing number of fishing warrants, it is long time to settle these old debates on how hunting clearances should be distributed, how to deal with them, and how to ensure an acceptable share in the interest of this article. After all, it is the common resource of the nation, as is often discussed. In fact, when I was introducing the Icelandic fishing industry to foreign authorities, I was interested that one of the guests is bound up with the repeated claim. How could this be the common resource of a nation when the right to use it depended on private rights and futures? How can a nation share in the untimely rights of the newborn? This is the everlasting piece of contention. It is still noted that despite the well - matched and concerted cry code that the industry is almost dead with a special payment, it is still well - matched and coordinated that it is passed by the industry. The fishing fee, which it is itself that it appears, is ready to pay a considerably higher price for fishing in foreign legal records, though the same sources as the Samherja case in Namiba are only for one year at a time. It will shoot at the eternal application of the fishing warrants to be far more valuable to them in the long term. Then we should expect that in this country for non-term fishing warrants dependent on private rights, the price paid would be much higher than the price paid for short-term fishing grounds in foreign jurisdiction. It must be a special research project for the highest. Secretary of the sea and his ministry, how's this work? So I think it's time for me to take up this discussion at the council. We have repeatedly come to the conclusion in professional committees discussing these matters that they were best handled by means of temporary fishing grounds. This proved to be the most successful way to reconcile the fishing system with the transnational resource committee 20 years ago. It has been repeated on several committees since, but never to be carried out, primarily because of the repeated opposition of the Independence Party to such changes, the last time in the government of the Independence Party and the 20133/4:2016, where the Independence Party was opposed to the fact that such a bill would be submitted to the council. Congress was not even allowed to discuss the time-seatment of markets. So you should ask the highest question. High - tech minister: What does the Independence Party find to prevent temporary distribution of fishing warrants and distribution of them by means of an export program that economics tell us exactly that it is such a natural arrangement when we are assigned to a limited amount of quality? It's a limited resource. Then it is simply saying: With the long - term detection of hunting warrants, is it not appropriate to allow the structure simply to bid on this, to divulge through the auction structure to indicate the degree to which it really is prepared to pay? The fact is, along with increased valuables, along with rising prices and recovery, fishing costs continue to decline. This government, located today, was just about changing the structure and pressures and calculation of fishing fees to decrease. [[The president calls.]] What is the opposition of the Independence Party and this government to a natural and reasonable arrangement in these matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u31	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the hearing. He pointed to me three questions that I believe are right to review in the minutes that are set aside. First, regarding the question and its contents: If we are going to compare prices on foreign markets with what is being paid at home, we must, of course, be in a position to compare income with all cost groups, taxes and expenses, etc., that would be paid in each country. We don't have information about prices, prices, and costs of marine products abroad, on foreign markets. There the dog lies buried, the information is not available, but we have very clear official information on the production and fishing process in Iceland. Yet, members of Congress allow themselves to claim that they are ready to pay comparable prices in the same environment as Iceland. We are now, as I've reported officially, to plan on it, and it's in the process of comparing the up-to-dates here at the North Atlantic as I would have thought it would be the first step in approaching the idea that it was. There is a senator. Similarly, in 2008 we changed the legislation on the hunting fee, which predicts a currency rate of 33% of each stock stock and the calculator, as it can be known, all income is fished at the loss of both variable and fixed. I'd like to mention that this 33% of change is added to other fees, such as tax paid by the sea route, carbon tax, income tax, aquifers, ports, etc. Yes, taking into consideration this, I believe that the nation is profiting from the value of the resource. We can decide whether or not 33% should be higher numbers, and I know there are differing opinions on this, but the council agreed in 2018 that it was 33%. I'd like to mention it in the context of the change that was made that it was then discussed whether any special income taxation on an agent could be replaced by some kind of this method in at least. There was no agreement to work to the end, and in fact, it was the primary time for cleaning. I will also mention what is bad. A senator mentioned a question two about the definition of links. That work is in the process. It's late to make comments with the suggestions available to the project management for the next few days and they'll be the basis for the proposal I come in here in the bill form. With regard to the fishing process, in what way it is done, I would like to say first, that the biggest challenge and main project of the Icelandic government and the commercial industry will become their competitiveness in foreign markets. At the same time, we need to consider the long - term task that always is, surely, an eternity of work, i.e. edative and fiscal compression. Right away. A senator mentions what independents see against free auctions of resources or natural and fair changes in the fishing system, and we have never put ourselves against normal and reasonable changes. However, we are designed to change our view of what is normal and fair, but not everyone can be judged by his own conviction that he or she is going to do something bad. There's nothing like that. We simply have differing opinions on that subject. There are not many opportunities in foreign labor departments. Faeroe Islands are the latest. That's what's been cut off. However, I would like to mention here the ideas of the free auction that the ideas do not seem to be particularly free, for spokesmen of such changes have repeatedly spoken to various political interventions in this system; prevent unwanted compression, ensure the distribution of labour sources almost equal to the country, ensure that new operations, etc. How will this auction plan look when political precursors have been taken into consideration that are rarely discussed or presented? [[The president calls.]] I think it would be very positive for this discussion to receive answers and full implementation of the obstacles that spokeers of such ideas would like to have on what they would like to set up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u32	V.E.G. President. During these days, there is a lot of discussion about the fishing of Icelanders abroad, and the eating system was mixed in with that discussion. What's the eating system, the Icelandic fishing system? When asked and the saying of the saying system, there are various ways of understanding into the system that has been around people, though changed since 1983. You could say that the eating system is divided into three parts. First, the total power, how much you can hunt from each species. Second, the distribution of the markets, who will be given orders. And third, fishing costs, how much to pay to catch every ton of fish. All of these matters could be said to be true at any given moment. For a long time, there was much debate over the overall issues. Today, however, most people agree to follow the counseling of Edro, for science and scientists are truly the most qualified to measure stock sizes and give advice on total resources. However, it is always a minister who makes the final decision, and in recent years he has always followed this counsel. The distribution of catchers in the early breakfast system was based on hunting experience three years earlier, which was the basis for a catcher. True, it was an option for many to take advantage of the so - called parishmark, which was canceled, and later the goal was to reach the goal. Hunting costs are determined by the government, and at the beginning of the dinner system, they were none, as sea fishing was a means of great difficulty, at least past 1995. By means of synergies, commercial fishing companies have managed to straighten the cow, making a lot of profits, many each, and flourishing. Here is the issue of which fishing fee should be accessed to the resource, which no one shares on national property. It is clear to everyone that the price varies from one to the next, and many factors have a bearing on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u33	Mr. President. We're here discussing the fishing system and we're left green, we want to make important changes in the fishing system. In this work of government, we came to an agreement to highlight the cohesion of the system, and there we have made some good changes for progress. Coastal fishing has been strengthened, sponsored, and has been a powerful landmark for mackerel, and we have revised the fishing costs so that they are off - line and the discount is for the first 6 million that has been very useful to small and mediumsized productions. All of these are priorities that are relevant to the very villages and communities that have been badly affected in the metallurgies because of excrement. We stress that in some way we want to limit the vast exorbitant expansion that has led to a very high degree of compression, and it is very good to see that now the results of a projector's orders to define a better relationship and that the financial share of rural companies does not exceed 12% of total share. We left green put a lot of emphasis on getting the resource rules into the constitution, it's very important, and the system has to be debated. But there will never be a nod of the system in 24 hours, we know what has been fighting for changes to many years. In terms of the proposals and ideas of these three categories that exist, which have specifically been spoken by the Republic and the Convergence, a so - called marketing route, I think there is a way that will lead to continued compression and simply fail to function. This is a genuine right policy, a market route to one, and all those who are socialists and those who live far and wide around the country know the consequences of that will mean for them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u34	Mr. President. Our fishing system is faulty. They are few people, working against innovation, and not making great demands on those who are allowed to exploit the sea resources. In addition, monitoring is very weak. The curse of the resource is a well - known term for economics. This may sound strange, but corruption is an evil that can often be a catch of quick money that can create rich natural resources. Iceland has abundant sea resources, and this curse is like Namibia. So it must be our objective to make sure that the resource use system, both in terms of the distribution of innovations as well as their prices, becomes the target of an equality. Political decisions on hunting costs and distributions offer corruption back to the world. In this light, we should consider all the decisions made by the government on rights and resource expenditures and make changes in order to limit the risk of corruption. There is a point of habitual discussion of resource use when the corruption risk is so visible with the Samherjaate documents. We in the United States have nearly two decades, or since the formation of the party, offered proposals for a more reasonable and transparent system. The best way to determine a special budget for the use of a limited resource is to use the market laws and to issue the patents in controlled steps and the implementation of proposals by setting rules that take into account the basis, prevent compression, and respect the specific status of smaller outputs. I want to point the top. Minister on and off. A member of the council who has spoken on market for tenders is common. [[The president calls.]] We have also spoken of the growth of greater benefits directly to the rural areas of the country. A defective system can be fixed. [[The president calls.]] It is the will that must be there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u35	A respectable president. We have achieved, not painlessly, the main goals of the fishing system to bring us, as the law says, to promote the protection and practical use of crops that can be found in the country, and to ensure that by making our business happen in the land. Yes, this has been successful and can be traced back to the fact that the Merit Research Institute published to maximise the yield of the cod population, as well as to prevent small fish killings because of its poor condition. But then they set out for the market, and the system began to be dissension. A largely vertical integration of marine soil companies has certainly produced larger and more valuable enterprises, but the movement between the habitats has been reported, so in some communities there is little left but the social host. A respectable president. The matter of fishing is especially local. We have this tendency to be proud of the world's best and most sustainable way of living. But in order to be self-sustained, the system must be all economic, environmental, and socially sustainable. There is no doubt that our system is economicly sustainable; in the environment, the European seas are strong, and crops have prospered. But is our fishing system socially sustainable? At least to make improvements. V.E.G. A sea emissary has appointed a committee to reevaluate the social market and would like to encourage him to celebrate that project and to ensure that measures will be taken to the most difficult outlets of the sea.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u36	Madam President. The second team of Pirata's fishing policy for 2015 is made quite clear, by permission of a president: The Icelandic government, the owner of the resource, shall provide market rents to the open market and let the rent run into a state fund, and all the finals of the sale shall be public information. Besides, free hand hunts. This means that if Piratars make it to the government, we'll take steps this way. If we're going to a government with exorbitant and Conspiracy, which have a very similar policy to bring the sea resources back to the nation then - and that I think only then - the sea resource can be restored to the nation at last. The independence party, the forward party, and the Central Party will not do that. Left greens do not, for they made arrangements to place a third of the marine resources on the market before the 2016 elections. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, who was then suddenly gone for the 2017 election, perhaps to make it easier to live with the Independence Party. People who doubt this may find the old direction greener on the websitechard.org, in what is called the 'Wayback Machine', which regularly copys the Internet and its websites, including The direction of the left green in this respect. There are always opportunities to set up species for auction, and it can be done now with the gray patch, but it could have been done with the mackerel, but only about 5%. It would resist a constitution as shown in the Supreme Court hearings recently and in the case of the job committee when talking about macrotype. Those who want the sea resources back to the nation must choose groups that want the sea resources back to the nation. Since 2015, piranha has had a clear policy in bringing the sea resources back to the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u37	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir The village of Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson and Minister for this discussion. I want to take immediate hold of what the minister spoke in his speech and must, in effect, consider amazing. A Samherji of Namibia was able to offer two or even three times, and I don't know if it's, higher in the catch, and I was going to make money with it, but the Minister still talks about cost and cost in Iceland. But there we are talking double, triple the rate, plus the bribe. Let's not forget the bribe. They don't seem to get caught. What kind of society do we live in? We've created one class that weathers in money at the same time when we beat other classes down so that they don't have enough for food and medicine. Here comes the question: Is greed good? I say no. The greed is killing us, the greed of certain persons. Who are the people who feed this greed and allow these people to drive? It's us at the council. And that's why I say we have to change this system. We are to make sure that hand fishing is immediately released, and we are also to make sure that the coastal fishing is done so that the inhabited earth will not be wiped out. We've created a system that suckes all the riches to a very few people. But don't forget, there are a lot of people in this system, people who try to do things well and do things well. We must be careful not to judge them because they are trying to do things well. At the same time, however, they're skunks who get all of this up to their hands without any effort, and who abuse the whole system. We need to make sure they're not there anymore.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u38	Madam President. It is only hoped that it will be asked if the sum of the fishing fees is properly determined when not even collecting fishing costs will fall to the management of the Institute of Oceanographic Research. In fact, we should not even accept the current Merro business as some sort of zero point. Although we live in a country where the use of resources in the ocean is a more important basis for society than in most places, studies have never been given to them. Governments have set priorities for research on crops, but basic research on marine life in general has not been effective. This needs to change and ensure that contributions to the work and research are increased in the years to come. While discussing the conduct of the company in Namibia, Hiccup's discussion of the Samherja led to a thorough program of basic questions about the fishing system in this country. It has now become evident that there have been too much regularity and surveillance in the ropes. Thus, the term "linked persons" is interpreted in a way that is different from that of commercial companies when the so - called quotas are calculated. Thus, in accordance with all the natural criteria, persons who are linked to a host may be considered to be far beyond the level set in the law, a much higher rate than was determined in this room to be acceptable. This needs to be changed. Diversity of the dome needs to be examined, more detailed guidelines on what is considered related to them. But what may be the most significant part of the game is the need to prepare the appropriate authority necessary to ensure that the game is played by the rules. Only in this way will we build trust on the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u39	Madam President. The legacy of this government - we know it is a stationary government, and it knows how to appoint committees and groups, and it will look after its own. We heard a minister's answers before, a premium on the top. There is nothing to be done despite years of talking about the need to take certain measures, such as time-settling access to the resource, but nothing is done about it. Our task at Congress is to eliminate suspicions about these important sectors, to eliminate distrust. We need to increase transparency, and we need to secure the rights of the nation. We have presented very clear suggestions, not just in general, but in order to provide specific suggestions that ensure the possession of the estate, which we spoke to yesterday's case, very clearly, a certain quota and the conditions for setting up an enterprise in the market. in order to open the article, not shut down, as the senators of the left green have contributed. Second, we have made clear and repetitive terms for resource resources in a constitution, not just some lobster and hag and little resource directives, as is being published today in the scheme of consultations, but with clear guidelines on contracts in order to ensure the right of the nation's right to the resource and ensure a fair and reasonable price. Third, we have come to our proposal for a righteous, fair fee, a transparent fee, and left green, that the nation is granted access to a righteous, fair price. We're here talking about marketing, setting up the market warrants for a certain amount of auction. What guarantee do we have? We'll make sure that we don't put it on a professional committee, every day, the council members, the costs, and who are not, all to try to please the main stakes, but we get clear prices through the market itself, the prices of the companies and the market itself. [[The president calls.]] We thus secure transparency about the price of the resource, and we also provide seamans with transparent price prices, which have been repeated for years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u40	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir For this fine discussion and for the minister's good answers, the Þorsteinn stone of Víglundsson's son. Of course, the dinner system has been a great model for other systems and has guaranteed the sustainable use of marine plants in Iceland, and today most Icelandic institutions are Witnesses. The system has ensured stable operating. But it is only natural for us to discuss how the resource will be most useful to the nation, how we will achieve a political solidarity on the article that appears to be a masquerade, despite the fact that they agreed on fishing costs, the way to get more money out of the resource, and there was nothing wrong with it. There are over 600 productions that pay the resource fee. But once it was there, a line was drawn in the sand, and we want to go further. But let's just keep talking about this system. You're welcome. All of us, however, have a requirement that at the end of the day, all of us enjoy the righteous supply of the seabed, the sailors, our communities, and the families of the resource. In this way, the wealth of the whole nation will become useful, and it is vital that we do so. Let's take the discussion. There's no need to do that in some big jumps, but discussion is good, always.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u41	V.E.G. President. About 1990, a so - called free exodus was allowed. By then, sources could be transferred from ship to vessel, resulting in economicization and the reduction of ships. The problem with this economy, however, was that at a horizontal merger, the company was at stake. Here's your big problem. Most of those who have a share today have purchased it, but those who obtained a share between 36 and 37 years ago have obtained a source of authority. This does not necessarily mean that people with authority today are in trouble. However, they have had to find all ways to maximise their value, whether in better use, better fishing, or better markets. When companies go well and they make money, there is often talk about the resource and what the natural cost of it should be. Such discussions need to be balanced and to weigh the overall effect without agitation. The point is that the public is excited and turned upside down, the constitution even mixed into the discussion. Nothing is as important to an enterprise as stability and dependability. Other factors, such as improved technology, are also important. Finally, about 12% of the maximum share of stakeholders in fiscal sectors. Since interpretation of the obligation and related assets within companies causes conflict and more on this point, I challenge a marine emissary to look for any means of clarifying these matters, so the common people believe that this 12% peak works. It would be a fine start on the road to make some kind of reconciliation about the fishing system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u42	President. There have been good comments about the fishing system, both public and various ideas that people have about changing things that are good. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir did well with our left green focus especially when it comes to urban and medium-sized enterprises and I'm not going to repeat it here. I'd like to share my personal opinion with you when it comes to what has only been mentioned here, which is the quota, and I have not been lying on it but intend to use this opportunity to make it happen, that I think it is necessary to have a thorough examination of whether 12% is correct. I think that opinion might reveal that it would be wise to lower that number to 10%, so I'll name something in the air, not as a suggestion, but something to assess the effect if it was done. But it's a pleasure to be working on hard-to-enforcement rules. President. I'd like to enter one of the things that have not been very much in this discussion. It's the climate. It is virtually nowhere in the community where we are better equipped to set conditions for climate change than just in the fishing business. Since private workers gain access to the common resources of the country, it is very easy to attach this access to a high level of climate demand. I've been doing these queries, and I've had a word place, including... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Minister of the jury, chief. Secretary of finance. Why don't we do that if we do what we say at times when we talk about climate, requiring that an attendance of a common resource be completely non-carbonized? It should be noted that the fishing route is doing well, but we all need to do better. This would be a first step toward doing so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u43	Madam President. Respected markets in Iceland have been estimated at 1,000 billion dollars. Madam President. 1,000 billion bucks. Think only of that number. Legally, all the fish stocks belong to the nation. Individual companies or families don't have that resource, just not at all. It's clearly in the law. That's why it's completely crazy that we have political parties, especially the Independence Party and the forward party, who have spent to the red death this system that, in fact, has a small number of individuals in this small community of ours all these valuables. Why do they do that? It is a nation's enormous interest that we can change this. However, there are also tremendous interests for those who profit from this system of things by defending themselves from all changes. Madam President. Implementation must be one of the system's guides, but the system must also be righteous. I want to increase money from the resource to the nation. The self - centered doctrine that the nation should be simply grateful that most secular work is actually foolish. I find it ridiculous that salmon fishermen will pay a higher price for their fishing license than for their large productions, but that's going to happen this year because of the government's decision. I find it ridiculous that even the fishing fees no longer cover the cost of service to the public, and I find it ridiculous that the fishing fees dropped by more than half since that government took over. Madam President. It is clear what interests will always be on top of this government, and that is not the interests of the public but the interests of the great industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u44	Madam President. We'll discuss our Iceland's fishing system. With the present fishing system, an amassing system, we have been able to build powerful, technological, and environmentally friendly waters that bring us huge exports each year, making choices, jobs, and secondary work across the country. Ever since the sale of the feast was given free, there have been disagreements about his personal ownership. The laws and regulations attest either to fish itself, to crops or to fish warrants, and they do not find the nation's uncircumcised possession of the resource, nor to who has custody and its rights. This is a simple answer. Quantum regulations in the constitution. The advance has been done and will continue to work on the unscrupulous and unscrupulous possession of the nation of Iceland's natural resources in its constitution. It is one of many steps you can take. During the season of 2013-2016, a so - called Synod Committee served with representatives of political parties and stakeholders, suggesting changes in the fishing system. Long-term contracts on fishing grounds highlighting the nation's ownership and providing sea plants opportunities for long - term thinking and forethought were the red thread of the proposed changes. Such changes may be another step. At the same time, we have to wonder whether the dinner roof, both in total fishing grounds and in individual species, is not too high, since the greeting system was not made to allow authority to get together in few hands and that few individuals could become too rich. Madam President. I'm not talking about a total revolution in the fishing system. I'm talking about timely and righteous step-by-step reforms.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u45	A respectable president. V.E.G. A secular minister accurately told us that we could keep on scribbling whether 33% were too high or too low. That's a little bit of a point, but politicians can keep it to themselves. On the other hand, there are other ways to find out what the right price is, and there is a rent auction, as is in Pirata's policy, convergence and restoration, and I understand that at some point I'm not going to write a lot about it because I don't really know much about it, to be honest. It is ironic to listen here to a discussion by independents who call themselves on the right and the left who call themselves left. Of course, the Piratars and I are there, between a rock and a sledgehammer and some middle person, I suppose, at least the man standing here, too far to the left for the right man or too far right for the left man. In any case, it is ironic to listen to the speech gypsy. paritaprevir The Lilja Rafney Islands of Magnúsdóttir, who go into the market economy for being way to the right and then listening to the highest. Minister and minister. The members of the Independence Party deal with the problems of the same market economy that they still feel are support during battles. V.E.G. A minister went to critical of the market route, which is offered by at least three categories, extenuating, Piranha, and Conspiracy, and said that there must be some action to cope with compression. A respectable president. It's always the case in small economy like ours. The marketing economy is basically an excellent arrangement. But more than anything, it is not perfect. It always takes something to match compression, and it needs to be in the current system now. That's why there's a 12% limit. No doubt they could be lower, like the second. paritaprevir Left green came in. It may well be considered, and it may well be necessary to have such limitations in a system that would build on a lease. It would not be new, so it does not argue that it is a better way to go than it is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u46	A respectable president. In these discussions and recent discussions, I have been thinking of the problems of the former governments and especially the serious problems of the present government. This problem is a problem of ignorance. The problem of ignorance is that the government convinces itself, as the social and child - care minister said today, that paying the richest pensioners $1 billion of 5, let 4 go to the people who need it, is quite horrible. If we turn the situation around, we are now giving more and more to the wealthy and billions of people. We're trying to protect them that they can bribe, that they can pay much more for the labor abroad than here. We should also ask ourselves: " How is it that fish don't go public? Would that not be fair? Nobody's brought it up. What I find very serious, too, has never been discussed with Namibia and what I thought was amazing when I watched the show in my day was this giant vacuumer that was shoveling up thousands of tons. There seemed to be no surveillance of what they were doing. Are they destroying that fish over there? Doesn't anyone worry about what's being done with the fish populations in this area? Is the nation being exploited, being ruined? Nobody seems to wonder what we're doing there. The same thing we do here at home, no one's thinking about what they're doing out there, how the little projects are standing, or the public in a country that's gone down because they've been taken away all night.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u47	Madam President. First, I'd like to thank you very much for your discussion and the highest. High school minister for participation in it. In the end, it's so simple. It's always an attempt to turn this up on the head when it's taken and that it's about to overthrow the fishing system. No, it's not. The fishing system is primarily a system for sustainable fishing and how we act on it. There's nothing to talk about changing that. This is simply a matter of changing the way we use the access to the limited quality of the fishing rights. We can continue here in the Hall of Congress to carve about it forever. But we've changed it a few times in the past six, seven years how to calculate this fishing fee - it's the entire visuality of the present system - or we can trust the market route that it itself will be provided through an auction. It also does not refer to any change as the ultimate. A minister came in about the arrangements to secure e.g. appropriate distribution. It's already in the law, and we're discussing how we're making sure that there's an adequate distribution on the fishing warrants, that we have clear rules on how we define people in a relationship, and so on. In the end, the change called after one simple change; that fishing warrants exist for a time, but not currently unlimited, and that they are distributed against auction, with current rules for e.g. A maximum supply section and how to define a linked item, though it certainly needs to be corrected. It is the entire revolution that the restoration and other classes have been proclaiming in this system. We stopped arguing over whether the budget is paying fair fees for the resource or not and simply hide the market route to determine and ensure that the nation will receive a fair and normal share in the great value of the resource. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u48	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion. She's been around many times and not much new to her. First of all, the Independence Party's position on temporary fishing warrants. We have never expressed total opposition to such things, as shown by the Treaty of Independence, Action, and the Future, so that claims about other things are wrong. Another thing I want to correct here is the claims of reduction of hunting fees with the changes made, and is chewed up here by members of the United States over and over again, and restoration takes over. If the same law had been passed, the fishing rate would have been 2 billion. The new law's giving you 5 billion hunting fees. So far, I've kept and trusted that. Senators realize that five minus two is three. I'm just asking people to figure that out. About the export route, yeah, there's a difference of opinion about it. But this may not be as different from the arrangement that we have today in the sense that people are talking about the need to build fences and call them outposts, etc. which politicians intend to put. Today, this right in business is going on free markets, but are we going by the way out to let the politicians in some way direct the way in which they do business? I'm calling for a move this way. I am quite ready to examine all aspects of that subject, the temporary distribution as well as the other aspects. The exports, the thoughts behind her, the effects of her, have just never been produced. Anyone who's been on the alert wants to see some of this, the effects of it, etc., because we know what we have. [[The president calls.]] The fact is, the political powers that have so far passed these policies have not been highly favored by those they have passed on to this course. [[Up front.]] There are more than independents.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u49	Madam President. I appreciate the discussion we have just discussed. With regard to food safety and climate security, we will discuss government policies. The European Commission project for Maturo Iceland, which has been in operation by marine economist and agricultural ministers, has yielded good results and created a awareness of Icelandic food culture. The project was first designed to enhance our image in a country as food nation, thereby increasing our application in Icelandic groceries and strengthening projects that contribute to the promotion of food travel and other employment opportunities in connection with our food needs throughout the country. We live under the conditions of being able to produce both marine and agricultural goods in a sustainable way and thus have tremendous opportunities. The task is first designed to enhance our image in a land that has been very successful and successful for food nation. There has been a great increase in awareness among food producers in all fields, and their cooperation is of great importance to market us as a food - based food nation and traditions that interest tourists and local and tourists alike in Icelandic food. There has become a great attendance on regional food, and it is important to attend to consumers'call for organic farming, traceability, and origin. It is a pleasure to know that a project in cooperation with the Maturo of Iceland has begun wide across the country, and human beings are having a lot of mind to go ahead in food and goods development. Last year, I had a chance to attend one of those meetings at Thyatira, and it was very exciting and enjoyable to hear from producers who met the tremendous minds of people making the best of the raw materials that come from playing. The small companies are very important, directly from a farm, and REKO, an intermediate trade on Facebook, have been increasing and are being examined for microspheres that will reduce the cost of carnivores'involvement. It matters, and we need to look for ways to make it possible without giving a discount on the health and purity of food. I'd like to lay down for the highest. Minister of the following questions: What is the highest priority? Minister of food production within the country with regard to food safety and climate security? What projects are now being carried out to support the full use of products and increased value in the closer environment of the production? How do Ministers feel that access inhibitions of sales can be reduced directly to consumers from food companies, e.g. with a change of order? How is the introduction to public shopping policy, that there is an Icelandic production of food in this subject? What opportunities do ministers have for further farming and organic farming in Iceland? I know that the possibility of microspheres has been examined, and I would also be curious to know where that work is. It will be interesting to hear the response of other senators during this discussion and the response of the highest degree. Minister of these matters. I believe we have a tremendous opportunity to move forward. To this land, two million tourists arrive every year, and they have to be fed along with the nation. The share of Icelandic production on that table is important. I don't think we realize what good and powerful opportunities we have to play. We need to look to the education of people in this sector and to support all who have ideas and help them develop them so that they can become the final products and go to the market. But for now, I'll let it go.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u50	A respectable president. I want to thank you. The chairman of this discussion will answer the questions asked. True, this is a bit extensive, so I don't know how well and detailed I can cover each one. It's just gonna have to attack, and I'm gonna hold it. A senator treating me with respect. With regard to the first question, regarding the emphasis of national food production on food safety and climate, I would like to conclude first that in the time of this government, there has been an enormous emphasis on food security in domestic food production, as well as on import in the light of the changes we had to make due to decisions made by the Icelandic government. In this we have a Food Institute, Matis, and a hospice doctor as a key center. When I mention these factors, I naturally think about the strategy adopted by the Parliament in connection with importing unfried meat, which is the subject of the work that is taking place now within my Ministry of these materials. First, I'd like to set up a food policy for Iceland that's been working and hopefully we'll be seeing each other this spring. We have set up a Risk Management Board, which is designed to oversee and provide scientific risk assessment of food, food, and food. This committee was legalized, but it had not been completed for ten years. We've made a ban on the distribution of poultry meats due to camylobacter infections and we've received additional insurance for the import of meat. It is started to work to protect against antibiotic resistance, and it cooperates with the health authorities. It is also started with better food markings, and we have also set up and strengthened surveillance in relation to the changes associated with increased access to unfried meat. With regard to climate, I would like to mention that we work there on the basis of the government's policy of action on climate. There is also a climate conference, and there is a field of consultation between industry and the government. I would especially like to mention agreements with farmers on a cattle contract that sets the objectives of their noncarbon activities prior to the year 2040. In addition to the breeding of sheep and agreements with sheep farmers, there is a process of cooperation on climate - related agriculture, so there are a number of activities involved. I'd like to name it as a dog. A member of the council came to object on how to reduce the access rate of sales directly to consumers from food companies. It's very important to work on it. We've been working on my Ministry to try to simplify a rule on these factors. We've been looking for ways to increase the value of farmers, and that's what we've been looking for. A senator correctly mentioned, has been much in the discussion of what is called a microchip or house of homework. We have searched for cooperation with Norway, Germany, and Finland, but we have not been able to make any progress. It does not fit within the legislation in force or international commitments made by Iceland. However, at the beginning of December, I preached to my principal representatives of these views. Our main stakeholders came to the Ministry, where we discussed how we could break out of this. After that meeting, we agree to engage in a joint experiment in this field, and I make hopes that it will be successful. The way shopping is being carried out is asked. It was approved on May 17, last year, and Kingdom Hall has reached hand in hand and has already had four educational meetings with key stakeholders. The Kingdom Hall is expected to carry on this assignment. The Ylavor. I simply refer to the fact that there is a debate between the state and the garden prayer for a review of a contract on their working conditions. There is a emphasis on the collaboratorial negotiations committee, and I expect to deal with the challenges. A senator is anxious.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u51	Madam President. I want to thank you for this discussion. In my first speech, I will comment on the traditional articles that we have used in food production for years and centuries, i.e. A farm and a fishing road. We have sorely lacked in these articles, especially agriculture, ambition. Then I'm not talking about the original producers, there's nothing missing in farmers' ambitions, no ambitions for farmers who do their work, distribution, and market applications. It is a matter that needs to be taken into consideration. We've made many stillless attempts to move, e.g. Lamb's meat to the Americas, which has been made in ignorance in my opinion, trying to stuff it into the shop chains of meat that competes with the visibility of New Zealand production. Of course, we are to send our meat to restaurants, where there is a much higher price. We are also confined to sheep farms where the cooperation of the slaughter holder has been banned. It's not the same situation up there, as in the milk, which has been quite successful. That's where we have to work. We need to emphasize how little drug use is here, even in agriculture. As for the fishing grounds, we have a natural lift, especially for the market. But now there is a flash in the air because the production of the products seems to have moved much to a foreign land, and it is a trend that I would have thought we had to reroute and maintain a job level in Iceland. We are, naturally, competing with the most double product that is cheap, perhaps catching with the Russians, making in China, or working in China, and selling at the European market. We need to emphasize that our carbon balance and the level of carbon dioxide in the fishing road are much less than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u52	Madam President. I'm celebrating this special discussion, but I and the members of the United States have been very active in promoting the importance of increasing innovation and valuables in food production in Iceland, and especially in promoting climatic production and production of fruit and vegetables in Iceland. There I find it especially an opportunity to use low - quality energy and side currents by geothermal energy, as I have entered here before. Because of climate change, the situation is changing and the need for food production is predicted in the following 30 years. So it has rarely been as important as it has now been to look to an increase in food production. It is also important for food security in Iceland to ensure that, as the most diverse food production in the country, we should make a significant contribution to research and innovation of the production of agricultural products in this country and to increase production. There is a lot of agriculture in Iceland, and we have an example of innovation in production, to form in the east. These include buds and boppers from Charles in the province of Berafjar, barley, and grain, and other productions from Mother Earth in Vallanesi, the River Valley. There are other examples in many places. However, the government needs to increase support for innovation and production, making pioneers such as the one I listed to be able to develop their ideas so as to produce more of the products and increase the value of the article. In this context, there is a particularly lack of support for innovation in the East, where there is no task center for the New World Translation on Eastern Europe. Madam President. We could be doing so much better. We've been waiting a long time for food convention for Iceland, and hopefully we'll see it as high as we can. Minister to state. Hopefully, the need for increased innovation and agrienvironment schemes will be reflected in the course at last.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u53	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Magnúsdóttir Electrical Island for starting this important matter. We are what we eat. Ten years ago, we became members of the EEA Food Act. The purpose of the food law is to regulate food quality and improve consumer status. We have high demand for domestic food production and, in the same way, consumers have the right to make comparable demands for imported foods. Climate is one of the main priorities of the government and the climate Action Programme is that Iceland achieves the objectives of the Paris Convention in 2030 and the noncarbonization in 2040. Part of that strategy must be aimed at strengthening domestic food production and strengthening all the environment and use of the country towards sustainability. The introduction of food is best reduced carbon spores and contribute to lower environmental patterns. Food security is based on knowledge of food production and construction. Such knowledge is often local, and this land needs to maintain the knowledge that our special position is. Icelandic farmers know how to taste home-whacking. The value to be maintained is something to be maintained. Thus, the treatment of the Icelandic lamb is important, and we who have grown up have access to homemade meat and know how important it is for meat to eat. A respectable president. Knowledge should be maintained. That is why it is our Lawgiver's duty to work on making a work at home entry to become part of Icelandic culture. During the past few years, reactions to homework have been embarrassing and embarrassing. Despite our knowledge, we set out rules and commandments in the interests of health - care professionals. So sale is now a crime on homemade meat, yes, like selling drugs. Tomorrow is the Icelandic farmer's day, and it's just ahead of him. Let's maintain an Icelandic tradition of food, and we'll take care of our rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u54	President. I'd like to start by giving a minister a comment to a seminar tonight that bears the heading of a creative industry, a sustainable development, and a innovation that seeks to answer the questions: What is the status of a vegan prayer in Iceland today? What's the status of innovation in vegan food in Iceland today? I'm told the highest. Environment Minister will be there and good, if ever. A agricultural minister could come and review these items that he mentioned in response to one of the last questions asked by the manager on climatic and organic farming in Iceland. The minister points to the current job and the information might turn up there, perhaps someone from the Ministry could arrive because it would be very interesting to get into that discussion. The seminar will be held at hand. 20◯22 at the Hall of Women's Home at Hall Fishing, 14th o'clock tonight. With regard to Pirata's agricultural policy, when it comes to questions, we want basic support so that active farmers using accepted practices have the right to provide support. Animal tours, sustainable, organic and sustainable agriculture, are the basis for larger concentrations than basic support, however, there should always be safety for farm management. Then there are established ways of working that will be more supportive, e.g. for the food safety and well-being of plants, sustainable use etc. The above is green payment, and based on the questions asked by the prime speaker on food security, climate issues, and so on, if there's a left green policy that I suspect, it'll seem to me that it's riding really well in Pirata's policy. If a minister might come in a little bit better, the focus today is on road or veganism. In 2018, The Economist said that 2019 would be that year. [[The president calls.]] We see that the product we have here, the product of vegetable production in Iceland, including carrots, going to a 300% higher price in Denmark. [[The president calls.]] There is a vast future and an opportunity for this. If there's any way a minister could come in.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u55	Madam President. As soon as I'm celebrating this discussion, I'd like to also draw attention to the fact that it's not long since the policy of the agricultural industry and the AVS Fund was suspended. It was postponed and set up a Food Fund, which I believe had been an enormously important step in promoting what we all want to see, a powerful Icelandic food product. And how do we do it best? Not just with the funds. My opinion, as well as ours, in Recession, is that we are to repair the domain-lord system, which is both in Icelandic agriculture and in Icelandic marine soil. We need to increase freedom in all areas, bring freedom to the farmers, increase their freedom so that they are not trapped in the sections of the system we have built up for years and decades, especially with the support of the governments we are living in today. What is the best thing we would do - and how can we see it? We can even do that. have increased innovation in one specific field of agriculture. They're vegetarians. There is one of the greatest innovations, the wands there. As a result, we saw more innovations, and more starters in that area than we could anywhere else. Of course, the same is true of the seabed. We're supposed to try to move as much of it as we can to the province. That's what we do with it, including it. to offer reimbursements and have the Industry Fund build the areas in the country and bring the funding, move the space to the countryside, to the farmers in that area. In this way, we add and encourage innovations that are widespread. And hell, and seas, and even so. The director of the trade committee has served as a minister, not helping to build strong, strong food policies. To encourage innovation, we need to increase all aspects of freedom. That's the wisest and best way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u56	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electrical Rafney Magnúsdóttir for starting this discussion and Minister. This is a matter of discussion. What we need to find out about Icelandic foods is that everyone needs to be able to afford them. There is a large group of people in Iceland who cannot afford to buy Icelandic food because they are so expensive. These individuals are grateful to be able to buy foreign rice or pasta if they can afford it. At the same time as we are paying for large - scale aluminium plants, silica plants burning thousands of tons of coal and polluting amazingly, we do not find it easy to make large greenhouses in vegetable production and other manufacturers. If possible, I would like to turn every aluminum and silicar into a greenhouse in an instant. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] That would be brilliant. Imagine how beautiful it would be in Straumsvík if the plant were a greenhouse on many hills. And I ask: If the Dutch can do this and move to us foods that are far less expensive, why on earth can we, with all our electricity and all our water, don't do that? Why are we not making food, thousands of tons, and exporting? We know when we eat foreign vegetables, and Icelandic vegetables are much better. We know. Then, too, we must deal with this remarkable price. Is it normal that we go out to the store or out to dinner and have one pizza that we're paying the value of two, even three for this one in Iceland compared to abroad? The excuse is that we're always an island, and it's so expensive, while on other European islands it's as cheap as on the mainland, it's always the most expensive in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u57	Madam President. It is good to hear more discussions about food being discussed as to how important it is to increase the support we provide for our vegetables and especially for weeding. Here, there should be a clear policy: To cultivate a much greater quantity of vegetables within the country, and more than a variety of vegetables and fruits because we have the unique situation of cultivating tropical species here at the Arctic Circle. They should be useful. The benefits of such a course are complex, population health, climate, reducing unnecessary import. You could list a long list of profits. However, we must not ignore any new attractions; we need to view the system as a whole. Part of it is taking into account animal life, so the price of animal products reflects more fully the pressures they produce on the environment and climate. In this way, consumers can be helped to move on to green ones. You might see here, for example. Consider some type of meat tax that might be used to support vegetable production. To cope with climate change, mankind has to change all its ways. Admittedly, emissions from food production are not the major factor in greenhouse gas emissions. However, agriculture is responsible for about 12% of Iceland's emissions, and it is the major component of the emissions accounting that each individual has the best way of affecting directly, only immediately with the next meal. It takes longer to build city lines and replace trucks with fuel. It's only possible to do it right away. When it comes to what individuals can do as consumers, governments must do in support of the transition.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u58	Madam President. I'm very welcome to this discussion about the government's food policy, but the top project administration. A marine and agricultural minister set up to develop policy shapes was to return its work at the end of 2019 by implementing a work plan for the implementation of employment and control systems. I'm sorry that this work has been delayed, but I encouraged the project management and ministers to the fore. Before I go further, I'd like to say that it would have been a success to have a representative of the plant manufacturer, company in innovation, and perhaps, at least, a representative of the Greenmaker Association and an environmental organization in the project. In the United Nations World Goals No. 2 The fact that hunger is eliminated is of interest that it emphasizes that hunger is to be eliminated. to promote sustainable agriculture, but the major challenges of Iceland are to promote sustainable development in fishing and agriculture and to promote organic and wholesome production as well as to ensure the implementation of all the countries. The two factors to promote sustainable development and to promote organic and wholesome food production are, unfortunately, not to be found in the objectives of the task management. I'd also like to, as more members of the council have done, in my speech to draw attention to vegetable breeding and perhaps the highest branch of Vigdís Fríða Þorvaldsdóttir, directors of the Greenmaker Association, which was published yesterday dealing with the state of vegetable farming in Iceland, with regard to sustainability and innovation. In this regard, Vigdís says that green carts' activities not only protect the interest of green vessels but also the community as a whole, and it is important to promote vegetables in the country. It has also been promoted by surgeons who encourage people to eat more vegetables and all major international health and nutrition institutions that recommend increased consumption of fruit and vegetables. Although much is done here in Iceland, of course, we can do better when it comes to planting vegetables. One of our most precious resources is our earth - defense, and he may be used more for vegetable breeding. It is also important to consider whether plants can't be allowed to enjoy electricity as much as the population can. [[The president calls.]] This is what we've been talking about here at the Senate Hall for up to 20 years, and I'm the highest. A minister to the gratitude of that subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u59	Madam President. I like others to thank you. The advisor for her initiative and the highest. Minister for his answers. Food industry and production are one of the largest industrial sectors in Iceland, whether for sea or country, and I think we also need to approach a discussion about food policy on how we create these companies, how we live under that industry and how we keep it. I have with what. A former senator, Brynhildi of Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir, directed a group of consultations on reimbursement of domestic agreements for now a year and a half, and that group will return the highest standard. Agricultural minister of his conclusions at the beginning of February, which is based on detailed stratospheric work on the future of the Icelandic agriculture with a view to more than 400 individuals, companies and institutions as a basis for that analysis and that publication. On top of these scenarios, the overall team of aims to develop longer-term agricultural policy support for food policy support, general support for Iceland's employment policies, energy policies, and other factors. The core of the workgroup and the analysis of the scenarios is simply this: Knowledge, innovation, food research, agriculture and food production fields, and really education in that area need to be done more. That may be the point of what we need to put our arms on, whether we look at food production to sea or to country, exactly this aspect, innovation, and growth in that area. The letter of the Convention, given the agreement on gardening, has been the focus of this discussion, particularly for agricultural ministers, to promote a stronger application in gardening and vegetable production. But then we may come to the core of this matter: What work conditions will we live in this area for the future in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u60	V.E.G. President. I'm going to first correct what happened earlier in one speech, that opening of vegetables customs would have been arranged for vegetable production in Iceland. Last year the Icelandic veggie stock was found to be less than five years ago, and people are trapped in the production of certain products because it was made toll correction. But I was going to be a lot more positive than this because it's our opportunities. They're in the clime, in the fish fire, in both land fires, and in itself there's no limit to what we can do in this area, i.e. if you have the basic conditions for these enterprises to work properly. I'm just about to say that since vegetable production is a major industry in Iceland, it's, for example, heavy industry in the South, there are more people in that sector than there are in a place like an emergency, so we should, of course, sell these companies at the same price. There is no limit to what we can do. We can produce vegetables that are not produced here today, and I recently drew attention to a talk that the Dutch are cultivating a discrepancies for glass because the vanilla crop failed in Bangladesh. During the early years, the oil of vanilla went from gram to gram on silver. There's an opportunity for farmers to follow silver and extra value. As for the fish fire, there is also an unlimited possibility. I just want to talk about something that's the waste we're about to show. It leaks hot water all day long, every day, all the years that are ruined. Both the ponds could be used for various kinds of fish and for vegetables that we do not produce. [[The president calls.]] There's the opportunity, and we're supposed to go on and make serious policy on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u61	Madam President. Now that mankind is faced with the largest joint work on earth's global warming, all plans and policies, emphasis, and priorities must be considered with the grand task in mind. So effective is the battle against global warming, and the acidification of the sea requires the political and moral effort of governments to create progressive policies and to act. In this regard, foodism is very important because one of the measures that will have a decisive effect in the battle against global warming is changing people's eating habits. Therefore, the government's policy on carbon - related foods in Iceland needs to be clear, e.g. National vegetable production needs to be assessed against imported vegetables. The farm paper noted during the days that according to the report made by an engineering firm for the Garden Prayer, the carbon track of Icelandic vegetables is as low as 26% of what is left by imported vegetables. This alone shows that there is a high environmental benefit from increasing domestic product production of vegetables. The objective of the government on carbon balance will be reached only by broad measures in many areas, and this should be to promote domestic vegetable production in order to reduce high levels of carbon pollution resulting from import. This also results in currency savings, increased food security, build - up strength, and increased employment. Food policy needs to include to contribute to Icelandic vegetable production, to put in positive incentives, such as funding for better equipment, savings lighting, the strength to increase existing greenhouses, to increase the efficiency of electricity transport, and to build generation bridges to ensure production is maintained, to mention something here in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u62	Madam President. Thank you for this very important discussion. It is a challenge every day to produce food, a challenge for us as a nation to produce food for the climate and food security of the nation. A respectable president. It is a real challenge to produce and feed the people, but they are shining in the air. We work in an international food environment that calls for a great international competition, a competition that is not fair if you look at the size and practical ways. Contestation laws here are inhibited for the development of domestic food production. So we must change. Our uniqueity is pure nature, fresh food, and access to clean water. Good raw material is the basis for food production based on public health. The United Nations World Purpose places in mind. emphasis on responsible consumption with reduced food consumption, sustainable management of public shopping and informed community on sustainable development. Choosing domestic food instead of comparable foods contributes to the growing food security and growth of the work in this country. A respectable president. I'm concerned about how they keep their arms around the Icelandic agriculture within the official administration. The limitations of agriculture within the services of the marine industry and agriculture are low, and it is my sincere opinion that farming should not be replaced by a new management agency, since the group demands much superiority and attention to meet the challenges of future food production.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u63	Madam President. When I was asked to attend the discussed vegan seminar. 20 this evening, Tun Street 14, I contacted the vice form of the Greenkers Association, which are held at the council, the Valgerður of Árnadóttir, to better understand road transport, and the opportunities for rapid growth in the Western world for Iceland, the climatic industry here, and organic culture. It was a very interesting conversation, analyzing the basis for the ideologies, the growths and opportunities. She's the one who mentioned to me that Denmark's Icelandic pickles are selling at 300 percent higher prices, so there are opportunities. We have hot water and good access to cold water. We have the electricity. The only thing I really found - a minister may be able to come in with it - about the comments of the Union Garden Prayer, especially about support for them in some council, maybe more into the budget, is electrical expenses. It has been defined as urban - at the time, this matter of Congress is somewhat old - as 200 individuals. They use more than the urban population, and the cost of electrical exchange in them is much smaller than in urban areas, yet they are due to pay 25% stress. They said, "Yes, but you are strong, but the strength is smaller than the cost. " [[Up front.]] No, it's old. It was Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson who proposed this synonym and it came out there. It would be nice to know from the minister of the situation and I'd like to ask him to come back to explain the situation in agreement with garden farmers tonight on Tun Street 14 p.m. 20th
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u64	A respectable president. Suppose we have vegetables, two paprikas that look the same, but are they the same? We may have two oranges, they look the same too, are they very similar, but are they the same? It can also be true of bananas. I have discovered by banana that two bananas, one is eaten in Iceland - it is quite like a banana that's eaten e.g. correspondent in Canary Islands, where they grow. It's the sky and the sea apart. Why is that? Yeah, it's organic. I met a traveler who came all the way from the other side of the world, from the Philippines. She told us, the bananas you're eating in Iceland are an animal food for us. What does this tell us? We're importing food with a huge rise in carbon levels, and young people demand that we start thinking things over again. We're supposed to take care of it now to grow organic. It's just the requirement, this is the future. We are also to make sure that organic farming is made strong, equipped, and able to thrive. We are to look at the future because the world is changing. We now have to look to Australia to see what is turning into. If we are not ready, we can blame ourselves for the fact that we are in line to do so. One, two, three, must be self-sustained with food. But we must also be careful that everyone can afford to buy it. This is not just good for the rich. We must make sure that those who have the worst in the country can also enjoy buying good, fresh, organic food.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u65	Madam President. I just want to thank you for this great discussion and thank you very much. Minister for his answers. I feel that there is a need for pioneers to be able to create new food products, to promote education and to increase jobs there, to get young and well- educated people into this sector. We have received a presentation on Iceland's Maturo, a project to be conducted until 2021. I feel very important that this assignment continues in some form. A lot of development has been done, as in the Marine Corps, as well as in farmers in meat production and climatic development, and there is a plan for a wide - growing production project that is very good. We really need to use our earth's heat to produce more vegetables and what it is possible to grow in the north. Eating food in its own environment and producing as much at home as possible is a major factor in climate change, and we often forget about this discussion when we are criticized for putting money in stock agreements and other items. The fish fire is here to be, and there we are increasing food production, both for ourselves and for the world's food supply. It is also important, and we have countless opportunities. The light needs to be the policy of the government on sustainable food policy, which is expected on the way soon, and we need to achieve the synergies of all those who are making innovation in food production and create valuables and diversity of employment opportunities across the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u66	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion that has taken place here, and I hear the emphasis given by members of the Parliament who have shared in the discussion altogether over the years being very similar. We look forward to strengthening ourselves in most of the ways in these areas. I thought why. paritaprevir In the final words of this discussion, Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir sums up, and I have nothing to add in itself. It is remarkable, however, that in the discussion, the production and production of the land are much less important. It's called that we're moving 99% of what we're gathering at a foreign market. We're in the agriculture area, most of them, probably 98◯99, eating on the domestic market. As a result, we need to discuss the competitiveness of these two articles and their future with this in mind. We have an export to the fishing trade in a foreign - language market where we are competing with foreign companies, but we are getting international competition in a local market. I'm thinking that even... what has been discussed about the establishment of a food fund that enables changes and innovations to be the best, but it takes time to get it on. There's been a considerable discussion of the bridal industry, and I refer to it in the case of a very good article by Ara▁lífiing Guðmundsson in the Bjord on the subject, and I share most of its views. The most advertised hearing here in the halls of the Generals? Unfortunately, I can't attend, but I'm sure I'll find out. [[Up front.]] I just want to say as my last words: an opportunity to have a long time before Iceland lies in this field, i.e. in the production of food, in fish, in agricultural products, and especially in vegetables.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u67	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the government law and law code and the law on the extra income of a state fund, or an electronic version. The bill was previously submitted to a Council of 149, 148 C.E. Then came the reviews of the International Habits Association and the Age, a partner of sustainability and democracy. Even though this matter has not yet been completed, it has already been referred to by the Human Rights Association at this council. The change is 7. a law on government news and a law-engineering form, as well as a headline: The political and law - based version of a newspaper. The government and the law code should be published and distributed electronically. In an electronic version, the safety and reliability of published information should be ensured and maintained permanently and the data format of the publication is open and accessible. The Persian version of a law-engineering form should be performed in such a way as technically possible to prevent the development and integration of published personal information. To an electronic version please refer to version date. The version of the Government and the Law Guidebook should be adopted so that most people are benefited with hardware and software. To those wishing to purchase a Government News or a printed paper, or to be sent to pay the cost of their printing and delivery, each one of them should be able to obtain a unique number of issues. A control sheet and a law-engineering sheet will be available in an open data port. The minister of the Regulation further measures in terms of the electronic version of the Management Board and the Law Guide, including data security, preservation of data and personal protection, and computer-enabled access of the publications into open-label information port. Then there is a change in the law on the remuneration of the State Fund of up to 14th paragraph. b The law drops because it's supposed to be a free electronic version. It's not much more complicated than this. It is simply being made legal that it is mandatory that the Management News and the Law Code be distributed in an electronic way, that access to electronic versions will be free of charge to users, and that everything published in these publications should be computerized in an open and open data format, e.g. ...................... At the same time, it is suggested that the 14th degree be removed. b The law on the extra income of the state's funds is no longer required in the government and law code to provide a fee for electronic access to a law code under the law on the extra pay of state funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u68	Mr. President. I'm making a proposal here for a hearing about flood control in the country, as it's called. Transporters besides me are Ásmundur Friðriksson, Birgir Þórarinsson, Karl Hjaltason undny G. Harðardóttir, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Smári Mccarthy, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. The suggestion is as follows: The General concluded to hide the Environment and Resource Minister in order to appoint a task force to solve the following national flood prevention projects in cooperation with the State's economy: 1st The assessment of water quality at the national major level and the major water spills that could be harmful. 2. Analysing the situation and importance of the flood prevention initiatives waiting for land healing, both the position of tasks in the private sector and of projects that must be carried out by partners, recruitment, road generation, or land healing. 3. Prioritive tasks in relation to the urgency and risk assessment of the Weather Service. 4. Suggested measures, in maintenance and development, as well as in the cost assessment of each project. The staff complete their assignment and report before the end of June 2020. The Minister introduces the results of the task force no later than at the beginning of the 151th legislature. This report shows that land transplants have a law on land healing to determine where the need for precautionary measures to reduce or prevent land erosion is needed. Such measures may include piles, or so - called tray defenses, explaining that rock or malar fill is being placed along a river bank to stop a piece of land without being built in a protective garden. On the other hand, defenses are needed because the flow of water sets down and the riverbed rises and the rivers rush out of their orbits. Land transplants cooperate with road repairs for the degradation of vegetation and for the protection of transport, such as road and bridges, and can divide institutions. They make formal agreements on the responsibility of specific parks in large lakes, e.g. By the river Mark, where there are now 40 dikes, which amount to over 40 miles [40 km] long. Where there is a challenging or extensive construction project, the road to transport, the practical preparations, invitations, and monitoring. It is also permitted to support construction projects intended for the protection of private workers or countries and to have a maximum application level/stemperature in the past 3 billion years. K. Over the years, such applications have been between 40 and 60. The land transplant has the oversight and maintenance of many dikes, especially on the south coast and on the north coast. In addition to the urgent maintenance of older parks, there are urgent tasks that have been needed in recent years. It may be noted that in the case of lack of maintenance or new parks to protect avalanches and tides, such gardens are not the only ones who have passed through a certain period of neither maintenance nor new development. Only some of the requests received annually are available for various procedures. In setting priorities, the value of the country or construction should be considered as a threat to land and cost as a result of protection. Grown land, crops, and then other vegetationes will normally have priority in order of projects. Today, among the largest and most important projects are maintenance and improvement in flood prevention of the Sea of Mark, the Lakes of the Shire, the Skaftá, the Lakes of the Lakes, and the rivers of the Merem Desert, as well as in the Hornfjord, Jacká, and Jacká, in Lon. So there is plenty to take. When it comes to assessing the importance of tasks in flood prevention, it is possible to take into account the risk assessment of water being done in Iceland's weather plant and updated to the level of climate change. During the past ten years, the budget for demolition by falling water has remained unchanged around 70 billion. K. each year, but the cost of construction increases considerably. In 2010 a total of 45 projects have been completed, but in 2017, the projects were only 17. This is partly due to rising cost of work, but it is increasingly difficult to get contractors to work in my group of projects. A waiting list of over 70 different projects has been created, and the estimated cost for them was about 257 million in 2018. K. There are countless special projects that have happened both to the river of the ship and to Jack on the mountains. It is to say that the main lakes of the land are a well - known glacier. There are often tremendous fluctuations in the flow, e.g. for rapid snowmen, sudden and chronic rains, and for glaciers. It can originate with planetary loans that suddenly drain or cover earth's surfaces and the largest volcanic eruptions below the earth's shields. Jackgels can be small and medium-sized, with a flow of about 1,000 to 5,000 m 3/sec. They can be large or very large, 50,000,200,000 m 3/sec., or 15 to 70 times the flow of Alpha wounds. Today, large fire stations such as Kate, Bjording, and Microchip signal the gathering of them. The lakes of monsters, the most active base in the country, are known to be glaciers, although this does not happen every time they grow. It should be noted, then, that several areas of the country are in special danger from floods in major rivers. Their existence depends on the success of a protective park. These are the daughters of the land, Eelphever, and Viking, and the coasts of the White River in the Aarnes, and the Caddy; all of these are built on the glacier. Also, land needs to be built and built by the drag rivers such as the Big Lax on flood defences. Climate change in the past few years and experience with rapid water growth due to increased short-term rain also causes concern, along with a lack of stocks for maintenance and renewal of water from all over the country, for at least A decade or more. In Iceland, defense against nature is an important community program of nature, and we have, of course, been thoroughly reminded of it. So it is very important to work out a position in the press with full cooperation with the Land Medicine and plan an action plan, as this Parliamentary proposal assumes, to provide suggestions on priorities and information on the anticipated cost of projects and, of course, the costs need to be found. I'd like to remind you that there is one particular barrier I've spoken to very often at the council. There is a special garden between the Vikings, the shop, and Mount Cape with a so - called Viking rock; a garden that will withstand a glacier from Catlu's glacier better than the current low garden, which is not far from the bridge of the Cape sea. This is a special project that can't stand waiting, with a price tag for about 150 million people have already needed to be examined, since the need and flow that could be needed and made easy for both design and completion of a garden have been calculated. I expect the release of this council resolution beyond this narrative here at the Senate Hall and assume it will be referred to and pledged to do its work quickly and well when there is room for such matters as this. - Mr. President. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u69	A respectable president. We'll discuss a proposal for a resolution on flood control in Iceland as a carrier, please. paritaprevir Ari Trausti Guðmundsson just moved. There is no human, at least not at this workplace, who has more knowledge of these matters than does the carrier. A man has often gone into his chest to learn about such matters, and he is now usually easily diseased. The evidence here shows that there are very many challenges and that there are now a list of more than 70 projects. On this day, about 47 years have passed since the Western Island island, and I will never forget that night, so, of course, it's always close when you're talking about these things. That is why I would like to ask: Has this list been established? We remember Vignar in the Valley of Micir, there's a barrier that has no defence, it would have to be fixed, and we've been talking about the need to fix it for quite a while. I'd like to ask the senator if he can tell us about it. This is much of a public defense issue. What is it, or is there a request for a implementation?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson for his speculation and inquiry. That's how these 70 billion are. K. approximately every year, both projects that are private, which are usually small in format and then carried out by the big rivers and riverbeds. Only the maintenance of the parks now there is a major factor. I guess I have to admit that priorities have not been possible. There are certain tasks that have actually come up and must be done. There was a special contribution to water growth in Hornfjordy 2017 and has been involved in special flood preventions by the river Kogle and glaciers on the Mountains, simply because of the second occurrence of the Holungos or biotransformations in Bjords and then because of the application of the K spray River on Route 1 and otherwise the construction of projects has not been established. This interpretation proposal is just put forth to check both the increased financial resources in this category and the implementation of these priorities in cooperation with the Geography.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u71	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. This is clearly an urgent task that we need to take care of, and I know that the senator will follow this issue closely. He is the chairman of the case, and he can be trusted to do so, and I have no better trust in him. I hope so. The Environment and Transport Committee will quickly and firmly settle this issue because we need to start cleaning up and shortening this waiting list as much as possible. Other than that, I thank you. paritaprevir A Trausti Guðmundsson for a clear answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u72	Mr. President. We've both been mentioning the Cat's Garden as a runner, one of those projects that would probably swallow more than this budget every year. Of course, all of this needs to be examined in context and what may be on our mind - we can also start talking about marine protection, we saw what the tsunami did on both sides, Florence, and Southern. There are many holes in the water or too low in the country, etc. I mustered it up, and I did it yesterday during the Council's projection, discussing the disaster fund, which has been discussed and in the carpentry, a fund to unite other funds, and to take in many projects. It could be exactly these flood preventions, seafronts, and new seafronts, what is left of avalanche protection, etc. There must also be research and other activities, and it must be acceptable and, in fact, clever to place this under one of the same funds, to give him financial support. This, of course, is in the treasure of a particular price. It could be done for this fund by altering the laws and other such. I'm the highest. Ministers, they are more than one of those cases on these machines, looking at these reorganizations in full force.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u73	A respectable president. I present a Senate resolution on road transport and protection in Iceland's highlands. With the person standing here, the transporters are still there. Councilmen Njlíl Friðbertsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, Gólán S. Brjánsson, and Karl Gauti Hjaltason. This Parliamentary arrangement referred to the Environment and Resource Minister says: The Council of the Council of Environment and Resources concludes to appoint a team of workers in consultation with the travel, industrial and innovation ministers in order to make a suggestion how to prevent road safety in Iceland's highlands. The Outfit shall be appointed to persons with knowledge of the highlands and experience in the management of Iceland's most vulnerable natural bulbs. The task force provided proposals for ministers no later than March 15, 2020, so that they can respond and take appropriate measures for the opening of highland roads in the summer of 2020. Environment and resource secretary introduce the results of the staff. The following report follows: This proposal was previously submitted to a 149th legislature but was not completed. Annual reports of irreversibly irreversible natural damage from road transport in Iceland's highlands are being received, but increasing traffic in the highlands is causing more serious damage to the environment. Extravasation leaves wounds in the soil, e.g. in gravel and moss, and in most cases, natural disturbances are irreversible. By 31st. Law on Nature Protection, No. 60/2013, it is forbidden to drive motor vehicles outside the road. Two. This article contains certain details, e.g. for agriculture work. Despite the general rule on the prohibition on driving outside the road, such driving is sustained with the related damage to the natural world. There are dozens of news reports in the media every year that describe an amazing global catastrophe caused by ignorance, but in some cases by determined violations. The fact that Iceland is advertised in foreign fields is of vital importance. In many cases it is suggested in the articles on highland travel and commercials in foreign magazines that in Iceland's highlands tourists can travel freely without any barriers. The results of such coverage can be seen when tourists and their vehicles have to be rescued far off the road or in the highlands, but tourists believe that they are in good faith. After such rescue missions, where great means and means are needed for rescue workers to pick up cars, trucks, and even tourist trucks, there is an irreversible damage to sensitive nature, which is without compensation. So it is important to set strict rules regarding personal travel and grouping on road vehicles in Iceland. In addition, more information needs to be provided for tourists so that they are aware of the rules about driving in highlands. For this development and for the protection of the highlands, wide consultation with stakeholders and clear rules is required. The organization of tourism, travel agencies, guides, police, and rescue teams, rentals, and landowners are key factors in protecting the highlands along with farmers. It is proper that their representatives serve as a ministerial servant who deals with this important matter and offers suggestions based on the experience and knowledge of the individuals who work in the field of guidance and rescue. It is then important to look to the experiences of other nations that have strict rules regarding travel plans, insurance and domestic transportation, license and association, and journeys across a wide area and reservations. Then the committee will need to examine the right to take up a special payment and require minimal knowledge of nature and the circumstances in the target area. In view of the use of transporters, guidance should be conditional for commercial travel. The cost of employment travel should, in all respects, be paid to the care and survival of people who often take unnecessary risks and have to be saved at great expense of society. It would also apply to tourists walking in the highlands, mountains, and glaciers in groups, or alone at all times of the year. This refers to things that we are experiencing almost every day, especially during the summertime. There are even known individuals from abroad who have come here to drive through a very delicate area. There has also become a lot of employment in the highlands, e.g. And in the plains of Whos, and in the mountains of Cherings, and in the Langjolul, there is a great feast for all goings and pleasures, for tens of thousands, and for hundreds of thousands of thousands of tourists to come every year. I've heard a figure of 300,000,400,000 tourists coming there every year, going to the glacier, going through the area. Of course, it is very important where a large proportion of these tourists, or about 60% of Iceland's tourists, travel in their own cars or rental cars, are thoroughly informed of the significance of going outside the roads and paths designed to travel in the highlands. It's a matter that is very close to our heart, here's a paper we're doing, and hopefully we're gonna get paid for it. Finally, I suggest that the case be referred to. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u74	Mr. President. Yes, it's blessed the highlands. There's a lot of discussion about it in the community, and here at the Council. As a mountainer, I'm just going to put my words together. We are outinging our way to the highlands, which have been a problem for many decades. I went into the highlands first, between 1960 and 1920, and I've seen how this has developed. Soon after the last world war, when four - wheel - drive cars arrived, there was a huge network of roads and roads all over the highlands. They simply made it up after a practical situation, so it has now changed with the organizational authority of rural society. These trails are being charted or weighed much, and then the Internet is visible, and it is probably a matter of minimizing them as possible, as can be done, because, of course, it must be kept open so that the highlands will be used both for use and for travel. I'd like to point out three different types of outdoor driving. First, it comes from established roads and roads sometimes with wills, sometimes by clumsiness, perhaps frequent and frequent foreigners, but it is by no means a road or roads that are recognized. Second, when snow is on. Although it is lawful to carry a specially designed jeep and drive onto snow on the road, it happens both in the spring and in the fall, either when snow is new as in the fall, or when it begins to appear in the spring, there will be considerable distances either from incubating or from will; people will not turn around to see it damaged. Third, it's still being stolen, that's how I would say it, to put a new road in particular, I don't want to call this road. That even happens. driving. It is only driven enough into some beach, and gradually it has become a trail, and it is used over and over again, and it is not closed. It is four wheels that have, to some extent, created trails. I'm using a fluffy neck near Lake Embers, where there's an enormous amount of transport left on top of the mountain. Above all, it is a hard - to - do motorcycle. There's a large group, and I'm not dragging it all up, it's an individual inside that's been doing the driving thing, e.g. sheep trails or sheep trails, gradually to become deep channels, they flow out, etc. And it is gone over and over again, and that leads to a road that does not have a driver's license. I'm gonna mention it here because it's important to deal with all these factors when it comes to this, hopefully. I think it's one of the partners that this council-sense proposal is very needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u75	A respectable president. I'm here offering a proposal for the internal structure and the launch of the coven in the village. Along with me, the carriers have the suggestion. Councilmen Páll Magnússon, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Ari Trausti Guðmundsson, Karl Hjaltason undny Harðardóttir Hardydótir, and Þórarinsson. The suggestion reads: The Council concludes to hide transport and local Ministers in order to order a team of workers to shape a policy on how to build up the harbor of the Sharkate harbor so that the harbor can further increase as import and export teams. The task force suggests how to add and increase safety and depth and seal for the dock. The task force also offers suggestions on how to achieve the best results for the national and national port markets. The location of the harbor will be emphasized for a shorter period of sailing between Europe and Iceland for cargo and passenger transport and as an exceptionally interesting advantage as an in-and-out port with plenty of land space for 40-◯60 minutes drive distance from the largest markets and most densely populated areas of the country and the International Airport in Cheflavík. The task force submitted a report with proposals for Ministers no later than May 1, 2020. Secretary introduces the results of the Group's work group to the General Assembly. It's not very long: This proposal was previously submitted to a 149th legislature and is now being reassigned largely unchanged. The aim of the proposal is to promote the graffiti of the Pacific harbor. A significant reduction of sailing time can be done by sailing to the graffiti from Europe instead of from Reykjavík. On the cruise route, it takes up to 10 hours for the second route. It takes only a little over a half an hour to travel from the villageport to Reykjavík. Thus, there is a positive effect that the carbon tracks of this shipping route to the country are much less than those at the Gulf or those that are farther from the largest markets in the country. In this regard, there is no more opportunity for passengers to move around the harbor than there are cruiseers and passenger transporters. The main advantage of having stopped by passengers from cruise ships in the Sports Harbor is that of approaching most of the tourist attractions in Iceland. In April 2017, the SkyrilLine Cargo Company began shipping transport, so called a 'Roll on a Roll of the Ftts, with the ferry Mykinasi between Rotterdam, the Netherlands, and the village crew on its arrival in the Faeroe Islands, on the way to Iceland. The defenses are transferred to motor vehicle systems that are being boarded to the ships, ensuring both careful and safe management of goods. As early as the first year, the bank's income from import and export with Mykinesi was far beyond expectations, but it transforms everything into the operation and survival of the dock in the coming years. With the development of this shipping route, loads to and from the country have reduced the transport costs of individuals and businesses by 40%, which is the main reason for the success of the cohesion anduril Line Cargo. In May 24, 2018, a cohesive group of Elfus and the Shark Harbor harbor authorities signed a contract for six years, ensuring the Shrine crew's greater and safer income than it did in the year of test. Fresh seafood and fish that spend a week with Mykinesi on Friday are being sold on the markets in the afternoon on Monday afternoon, in western Europe, and on Tuesday morning in Italy, Spain, and Portugal. This new route is shorter than any other, and the transport costs are therefore less than 40% as previously observed, when they are most favorable. This should help reduce goods prices in Iceland and make exports more competitive in foreign markets. The changes that have been made in the river ports of the village harbor in the past years have been outstanding and far below the expense strategy, but the changed conditions at the docks have made it possible to receive the largest ships to come to the country. However, it is possible that a strong south or south wind will make the seals spare on large ships with heavy winds. Therefore, ship commanders at Mykinasi had trained the emigrant seal of the Villagers in a cruise simulation for a total of about 200 times before the beginning of the weekly voyage. So they were equipped, but in the most difficult situations mentioned earlier, the ship must sail at a considerable speed to maintain a course in a narrow and challenging setting where the bow - to - side is taken just before entering from one of the parks, where the entire engine force of the ship must be used to stop it. This situation must be fixed and the task force must review all possibilities and offer suggestions for improvement. It is then important to improve the safety of the harbors and seafarers along the south coast to a new and more powerful heat boat available at sea. The toll area built at the beginning of the import is a long crack but the port transport is far beyond expectations. To meet this increased traffic, a new 40,000 square - square - foot [40,000 square m] fenced northern customs zone is in use. From the village Harbor, transport is readily available to the capital area and the West, through the Threend and South Road of the Oyesar Bridge on the Selephos and South and Southeast, and on the South Coast road to the Southnesian and the International Airport in Chefavik. In the market, it can be said that the harbor is located in a 50-mile radius of the market area where 2/ 3 of the population resides and operates. In addition to the largest market, the country's major species of nature and tourism are less than 2◯3 hours. driving from the Pacific Harbor. Elfus's rural society is a very powerful member of a large population and has strong infrastructure to control as well as enough land space to deal with more projects in the area of cargo and passenger transport. It has a tradition of more intensive development and fishing production, has traveled the harbor for decades, and fishing is growing in the countryside. A few miles away from the harbor is one of the most productive waters in the country, as well as powerful geologic areas that have unbounded prospects for the future. I'd like to add it after this report that last Monday the ferry, the sistership of Mykines, sailed to the village Harbor for a second time. The ship will have leave hours on Monday nights, but Mykines on Friday nights. So they're working on these two ships for the week. The ships are sister ships, 138 m long, 25,000 bridgetons. It is therefore no small thing to sail such ships into the harbor of the weather that has now been in the last few days and weeks. Extremism, with as many as 8◯10 m century level and wind up to 20 m and even more, makes it necessary that now at the dock point, two skiffs, one from the Western Islands, and the other from Reykjavík, come to help the ship sail into the harbor, hold the course, and turn it back into a narrow position inside it. Even though such a ship has been greatly improved, there is no easy way to turn its ship inside the harbor in a great wind and the ships with huge winds. Yet, there is a considerably smaller service than the sistership where its side is lower than on the Mykines. So it is important that the committee submit this opinion as soon as possible and that they become serious behind the harbor and correct what needs to be fixed. It is very important, to increase the safety of these ships into the harbor all year, to extend the south garden. It is estimated that approximately One hundred and eighty-two thousand miles [180 to allow the ship to get to safety from the park and thus sail unexplored into the harbor. Information for us here at the council, on the scope of this matter, can be noted that by 2015 33 freight ships arrived in the village. They moved 72,000 tons. In 2016 - I assume it should be 2018 - 118 ships with 2 60,000 tons, and a portion of it is one of weeks. The largest part is from Mykinesi, and it is now being added to the Acquires, so that there is going to be tremendous transport of all kinds of goods and services, and it is time to consider the incredible opportunities that are open to the village harbor, with regard to the interests of almost all the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u76	Mr. President. As an importer, I'd like a dog. A carrier, Ásmundur Friðriksson, to inform us a little more about possible passenger transport. In Europe, Wyril Line is now seeing the square cruises to Sufjörður, and he has his clients in many parts of Europe. If there is a passenger transport and even a truck ride to the village, is it possible that you are merely thinking of Britain, or how are you riding together with these two squares, possibly from the same company? Have people talked about it and they know what to do. A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u77	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. Fun voyages have arrived at the villageports, where the summers of the summer had ended. As the report shows, the most beautiful resort in the country from the South Sea is short - lived. It's interesting for such ports to reach cruise ships, but it would probably only function temporarily as the situation is right now. Given the conditions we now have at the docks, I think ferrying there would not be a good option for many passengers all year long. A large passenger ship full of passengers would likely find it difficult to sail into situations like those of the past few days. Of course, the villagers and the Australian harbor authorities have great ambition to live the harbor so that they can accept cruise ships, since it is just the same situation as the ships that already sail there. It would increase the opportunities for this seaport, but the most important thing is to go to the structure that has already begun, and now we must not pull our feet at all so that the situation will be far behind the existing need and is to develop by means of more means and means of means built up by Mr. Mellow Line. Spiril Line on five ships and three of them sail to Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u78	Mr. President. I think there's a reason to thank for a quality ossuary that's put forward and not without cause. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson traced his story. That was exactly what he said about the opportunities to build up in the village harbor with the problems there are. I just wanted to talk about it, but I also wanted to explain why I'm not an importer at the proposal. I received an invitation to be an importer, but I simply didn't see it at the time. When I examined the calendar before that day just before I came in a lockt, I saw why, there was quite a lot to do that day as on to happen. The fact that I'm not an importer doesn't mean I don't support the case, on the contrary. It seems like a really nice deal. I would like to talk about this in relation to the future that may be possible in this area. There has been an increase in the number of transports in the past few years, and in general there is considerable structure in the Southland, but what may be lacking in the consideration of the future architecture of the seaport is a potential for industrial development. Then you may be able to refer to the proposal of a future prime committee, which appeared before a year's convention in a report on the future of Icelandic society 2035 and 202040, especially the 5th Commission's proposal, by permission of the president: There will be a clearer target of employment construction in the capital area and in the region of the country, e.g. in the form of total innovation, industrial and industrial policy. The potential for growth to develop during technology changes is laid up, especially in high-tech sectors. What does this have to do with waterfront construction in the village? some may ask. The answer is quite simple. There has never been a clear, specific policy on how to develop the work and industry in the South. There are a number of ideas on how to handle it. For example, I have heard ideas of starting carbon dioxide to produce fuel, even for export. At the same time, sulfuric acid and other substances could even be exported. While trying to build and improve this harbor, I think that if we just walk out of linear development from today's development, compared with the developments that have taken place in recent years, and not taking into account the possible development of technology changes, all ideas of the enlargement and improvement of the harbor are likely to be too low. I think it's better to think big things about the future and make sure that we're not missing out on some sort of opportunity simply because of being shortsighted. However, in this excellent suggestion, it is not shortsighted, and I thank her very much and hope that she will succeed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u79	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson for his history and this very good suggestion. I'm one of her partners, and I'm happy for her very much. She's well-worked, and I hope that she's getting a quick release at the council and that the members of the staff who are referred to will be appointed and working fast and well at the job suggested in the proposal. In recent years, the Selfish community has been affected by economic hardship in the area. They all connect in one way or another. A significant fishing industry has left the area, and it is not long since the fish farm moved its activities from there, thus nearly 60 jobs were being performed as we know it. Then there is what we've talked about, the result of selling cows from the seaside. As a result, we see loss of employment, decrease in the number of people, and loss of privileges on people's property and services to name something. There are obvious defects in the fishing system that must be seen. We in the Middle East have stressed that certain fences, as it were, will be placed in the law to prevent food from being sold away from the local settlements that build much of their resources on fishing and fishing. For example, the local community may have been a little different in this regard, so that it was more commercial and did not have to eat directly, yet the local community has suffered tragedy. However, it is admirable, Mr. President, to observe how well the local people have been able to rebuild their job life. We find in particular how successful we have been with the Pacific Harbor harbor. The local belief in the run of the harbor and the decision at the time to attack a large resurgence of the harbor in order to accept new ones and expand their assignments has led to tremendous success. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson traced his story. This has led to a regular decline in international cruises to and from the Cove. There has been a dramatic increase in the population, and there has now been a crew crew on the map as an import and export crew with the shortest transport time in transport to and from the country. There is reason to commend the community for this work and for its farsighted vision. It is very important to secure funds from the state's budget to complete the docks, especially from the safety issues. A senator trace. In the week, I had the joy of welcoming the new ship, Aranesp, who is sailing on the Sylril Line to the Village Press, so that they will arrive twice a week. Our activity continues to increase. It was quite clearly a challenge for the captain to sail into the harbor, it was a rough day that we got to inspect the ship, and must say, as it is, that it is very urgent to react to it and to prolong it as hard as it is. A senator traced to the full security of all storms. It is also a joy to see that the increasing waterfront activity has followed a reduction in road costs, which hopefully paid off to consumers who are urgent. Today, the village has become one of the key buildings of the country, which are most enjoyable. There's a lot of opportunities like what's wrong. A senator trace. I must say, Mr. President, this is a fine example of how well the locals are looking, the hard work and the power to cope with the tragedy, and I wish the locals and all of us happy that this harbor is increasing, and now a new ship has arrived, and the event has become two times a week, as I mentioned. This includes all of them and has a major impact on the area that is truly joyful. As I mentioned at the outset, I hope that this proposal will be quick and well paid, and it will be possible to have needed improvements in order to ensure safety and that the harbor can continue to grow.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u80	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to legalize the law of the aged. At the same time, there are changes in health care laws and legal laws and residences as I come in later. My importers on this bill are why. Councilmen Inst. Hrafn Gunnarsson, Guðjón S. Brjánsson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé and Trausti Traus Guðmundsson. This case is now given if I run my rights for the fifth or sixth time. Although one of them does not have an approved physical and mental status, the main proposal is to give a married couple or married couples permission to live in a nursing home. At the 14th. Then the law would add a few paragraphs. They're quite long, and I'll read them up here, with President's permission: ▪ A permanent resident in an institution for the elderly should be able to stay with his or her spouse when circumstances permit. A man should pay fair rent on account of his presence and pay the cost of his stay. Depending on the circumstances, the Agency's services will be available for charge. A woman according to this paragraph is an exception to skill and health assessments and shall have a home outside the organisation. A marriage or a partner may remain in the aging institution for up to eight weeks after the death of a household. At this time, the possibility of continued stay on the Agency should be determined and the right to stay at that time should be dropped unless the result of performance and health assessment has been determined by Article 15. will have the basis for continuing residence and will gain the relative right of the household to have an institution for the elderly. The minister appoints a marriage mate and a partner's law on aging institutions, which include: The funds, payment arrangements, rights, insurance and the cost of the state should be specified. Two. The bill then discusses an exception from the criteria referred to in 15th. ..... requirements for performance and health evaluation. In Comb 4. is then a reference to other laws that need to be made word changes because of the bill. As I came in earlier, this bill has been delivered before, and it's only right to be able to the highest. Minister of health, let's see. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, U.S.A. That comment is very much in the spirit of the subject presented here, and it addresss points that I considered and still feel need to be done. It is important, Mr. President, that the bill is actually about the most important rights of older people. It is well - known, as members of the Parliament recognize, that it can be difficult for married couples and couples to separate from one another after another for decades. Although the reasons behind are the illness of one mate, the breakup is no less painful, especially when there is even a place to live in an institution or home, even for some dissatisfaction or year - old. In such cases, it may be absolutely unnecessary for a couple to break up in this way. Like what? Senators are likely to realize this is not always possible. The local conditions in the homes may not allow this to occur, and thus they include: Arrange a further entry in the bill, i.e. It says: ◯ Whenever circumstances allow to be held in their own proper place. It may not be right to have the right not to have the right but to be able to evaluate it each time. In some places, the nursing home with that small room, the circumstances of other members of the household, may be that no farms, etc. can be allowed. What we're trying to do is prevent the bill is what we would call a forced separation. For obvious reasons, however, all rights and duties of the new population need to be ensured and expected. It is important that we also realize that this is not a change to get two extra hands to do the work in the nursing homes. It's not. This is primarily for social and emotional purposes. Of course, the result may be that the sick or those living in the home feel better and may need as a result of their living together, not as much care as they care for or as large a worker's presence. This may prove positive. The source, however, is not installed because of this. It is also important that factors such as costs and access to services be made clear. I think it is best that this should be determined by the Regulation in what way it is. Then, when the mate falls away, we know that it may be difficult to quickly change the residence and find a new home, especially when a person may have abandoned his own home. Then it is important to have a good environment. Eight weeks is selected here because it is the time in praxis today used as a maximum in resting rooms, so that no rights are being passed or given to these individuals in such circumstances any higher rights. The eight weeks should then be used to determine whether or not the person will receive the approved performance and health assessment and on the other hand, the end of a new residence. I believe, Mr. President, this is the key issue in this clear but establish what I said in the beginning that this is a matter of great rights for relatively few individuals. This should not mean the expense of the public or the host of nursing homes. Rather, it would be primarily a gate to humanitarian candidates and the reasons for being treated with people with dignity and dignity. That's what's behind the bill. Mr. President, I suggest that the case then be referred to. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u81	A respectable president. It's going to be in the tray stream coming here after the wind. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, discussing health matters. There are few who are better at this than he is. We feel deeply at the welfare committee how important it is to have an experienced doctor with us in the group. This reviews the need for those who have worked in such places, know well, and have worked closely in these articles to help us make better laws. I say better law because this bill is a great requisition for the people who find themselves in the difficult situation that one of the partners gets sick and needs to go to an institution. Then it sucks to make the other spouse sit at home. Likewise, when a husband and wife do not get together in an institution where one mate is very happy and the other is sick, it sucks. We know and observe that despite the deterioration of the quality of our home ministry, the mate is greatly refreshed after the sick person is either in the institution or breathing. I just wanted to come here to express my great satisfaction with this bill as a matter of course. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson and his associates set forward a second or third time. I believe now it is very important that this case be referred to the Committee and that we will have the opportunity to complete the case and act as law as soon as possible. This is a great justice business for older citizens, who I believe, and in fact, we're going to have to get them through the welfare committee as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u82	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of local authority to collect environmental charges. My importers in this case have a problem. Councilmen Ari Trausti Guðmundsson and Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. The suggestions are: ▪ The General concludes to hide transport and local government officials to determine whether and how to provide local authorities with permission to collect environmental charges. The secretary gives a report on the case at the spring council of 2020. I see, chief. President, that it is a little optimistic to stick to the spring convention 2020, but we will see how things are going. Environmental and Transport Committee. I have offered comparable suggestions in the past at 139, 140, 148, and 149, when these did not go into operation. As members of the Parliament are aware, in many parts of the Western world, the debate that environmental awareness begins in close to society is necessary to become the means by which communities can change their policies to this important issue. Many routes have been taken abroad to increase awareness of environmental factors. These include the classification of waste, the limitation of road traffic in central cities, parking fees, pollution taxes, the cost of farm society on car property, and so on. So far, this thought is coming up in Iceland despite significant progress, in order to form a group of wastes that have occurred in the last few years. However, the payment of rural society for car ownership is hardly recognized except in the form of parking bills and indirectly in the form of pore prices. On the other hand, rural society has not been able to stop private use, and Iceland is among the countries where private cars are most common to every population. Public transport has provided a measure of this and other environmental routes, such as riding a bicycle. As a result, there are now very many Icelandic homes, even three, cars, or even more that again demand high costs for rural development, maintenance of roads, land use, construction, etc. Then there is the air and noise pollution caused by cars that are insane. The purpose of this proposal is to consider whether and how to give authority to rural areas to collect environmental costs. This would especially be considered for the factors involved in car ownership, use of such substances as energy donors, cleaners, and pollutants that are harmful to the community and activities that have negative environmental impacts. Farmers are responsible for a variety of services to citizens, often linked to environmental factors and design in close to the environment. The land use required by cars is to produce a much larger number of cars. In fact, it was impossible for rural society to respond in pay due to this until traffic law No. 50/1987 was modified 2017 and granted limited access to currency due to the use of parking areas. However, such paybacks still have considerable limits, and they depend on conditions. This payment rights continue to be stated in new traffic laws that replace the law of No. 50/1987 and went into effect January 1st. With a warrant for environmental stress, rural society would be able to improve the environment and strengthen its subsidies in order to increase. Transporters believe that it is important to have a minister investigate the possibility of this in the present legal environment and give a report to the General Reconnaissance of the Spring Council. A respectable president. In fact, public knowledge of environmental and environmental matters requires constant strength. People need to be informed, helped, and instructed constantly so that they can maintain this awareness and make decisions in daily life that will have a positive effect on the environment. In some cases, it is not necessary to set costs to achieve these goals. In some cases, it may be wise to give injury if a person is doing the right thing. For instance, such injuring might be in favor of someone when the energy rush comes to have his own energy tank in a garden or somewhere else, the same person may save his own sensitive waste care. This may be one way to encourage people. Without doubt, many more are involved, and it is very important that our rural society is placed in the hands of the tools they need to treat the environment as well as possible. That is really what the future will require of us. Our future will expect us to do more and better for the environment and for us to bring the environment, both the environment and the whole country, in a better condition than we accepted. Suggestion like this is one small step in that direction, and I suggest that it be referred to right away. The environment and transport committee after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u83	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis on international flights through Hornafjörður Airport. With me, this case presents Ásmundur Friðriksson, Páll Magnússon, Silja Dögg Djög Gunnarsdóttir, Trausti Sigri Guðmundsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Birgir Þórarinsson, and Oddný G. Harðardóttir. The Hornfield airport plays an important role in the transport system of the country, as is true of all other transport edifications, and it is important to examine the ongoing development and development of the region for the benefit of locals and occupations. Clearly, the location of the field affords a wide range of opportunities for increased travel, especially in the wake of the production of Lakesjörður Park and the development of employment like fish farming in the East. To that end, it is necessary to examine the availability of adequate equipment and facilities for international flights. In January 2008, the Air Force worked on the request of rural and other stakeholders to make the airports at Isafjordur, the Western Islands, and the Cape on international airports, what measures would be needed to take in order to accomplish this, and any cost of such changes could be realized. The report reports that improvement in safety and monitoring factors at the requested airports is required to deliver smaller airplanes on international flights and planes on the ferry. The report evaluates the potential and costability of these measures, but there are three main measures to be taken into consideration. During the implementation of a proposal for a four-year transport programme for 2015◯ 2018, a greater proportion of the environment and transport committees of the Committee said that they would be looking at providing smaller planes on a cross-flying basis for landing. On the Hornfjord. This could help a lot with the distribution of tourists, as well as reduce pressures at Keflavík Airport and increase international security. At that time, a greater proportion of the Environment and Transport Committee on the Horn of the Airport in view of the implementation of a proposal for a five-year transport strategy for 2019-22023 and a proposal for a resolution of transport plans for 2019-52033. Said the other part was supposed to use smaller planes on international flights to land on the Hornfjord. This could be of great help in the distribution of tourists, as well as a reduction in the pressures at Keflavík airports and increased safety in flights, as the research committee of transport accidents has noted in their reports. Transporters stress the importance of making a quick inspection of sufficient equipment and facilities on the Hornicground airport so that international flights with smaller passenger planes and planes will be used to further build up and build up the Lake Earth. As I entered, the Allied Parliament has already adopted the transport proposal that it is right to build up the vital transport infrastructure that the Hornafground Airport is at the same time. The same transport programmes as other government programmes, such as national planning, policy-based, infrastructure, and continued to indicate the importance of distributing the country's tourists, reducing the level of carbon concentrations of transportation, and reducing heavy transport stress. The building of the Hornground Airport meets all the targets that we scrap all our plans with. I've mentioned earlier the approach of the airport to the Sea of Earth's Earth's National Park, which made it into the world record of UNESCO last summer. Then there is the plans for building a large transport service project in Lón, and there is the new major industry in the country, salmon fire. In about an hour of driving from Hornaf Airport, about 100 tons of salmon are slaughtered five days a week, which is then driven by trucks all the way to the Chefjordur Airport. Thus, it would be a great advantage for everyone, either the road, the environment, or the competitiveness of the economy, if planes that could carry over 50 to 150 tons of cargo landed on the Hornafground Airport. I don't think it's clear that all transport has increased economic growth and better living conditions and opportunities. Our transport has always been on the path to follow the need rather than build up tools for boosting. I believe that the need for a Hornground airport as an international airport is due both to the structure of the commercial world in the Southeast and to the security issues I mentioned earlier. However, we do not know of all the positive results that the airport structure will produce. I wish for the case to go to what? Environmental and transport committees are to be taken care of, and they are to be provided with a transport programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u84	A respectable president. I recommend the Senate resolution of Iceland's Western Council, which reads: ▪ The General concludes to challenge the government to explore the possibility of establishing the Western environmental guards of the ocean in cooperation with the National Governments of the Faeroe Islands and Greenland. This proposal is presented on the basis of the conclusions made by the Western Council No. 2,2019 approved at the annual meeting of the Council on October 23rd. in Nuuk. The report on this council resolution is based on the report of the resolution that was adopted there. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The world faces challenges as a result of climate change and pollution. Biodiversity, sustainable energy development, and sustainable solutions to food production are essential. The UN's global aim for sustainable development has put these issues first. At the same time, interest in North Atlantic and North Northern seas is increasing and competes for environmental impacts in the region and in the natural resources it contains. A competition for the control of natural resources on land has set its mark on history, but ocean resources will play a key role in future international politics. The oceans cover about 70% of the earth's surface and are highly maluseed by the resources of the sea. In increasing numbers, governments and international institutions have directed their eyes toward the sea. For example, the establishment of an annual ocean conference (Our Ocean), which has attracted more and more participants in recent years. The European Commission has also given increased emphasis on the marine and biodiversity of the European Commission as well as on environmental groups, free organisations and businesses. It is important that the Western Pacific is fully involved in this growing discussion of the sea. The countries have quite a special position in the size of their territory at sea and how much they depend on the resources of the sea. It is necessary to protect the right of nations for sustainable use of ocean resources. A discussion of the peace of large areas of the North needs to include information on responsible fishing management and employment. Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland should therefore work hard to shape a global discussion of these issues. The establishment of the Western environmental prize of the ocean would bring to the attention of international society on the importance of the oceans for future generations and the inhabited earth. The awards would be given for special initiatives and work to provide the marine environment or sustainable use of resources. The prize would be given to pioneers, organizations, companies, rurals, governments, institutions or individuals, whether in Western or outside. The prize would bring to the attention of international parties the importance of the ocean for future generations. As I said earlier, this resolution is adopted at the annual meeting in Nuuk, and it can be said that she was very supportive. A significant discussion was created on this subject, especially that although this is an international comparison of very small countries, Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland, their domains are very large. I think it could cover much of Europe if the squares were numbered. We can pretend to be very large when it comes to this territory. Then these countries are very important to us. As it says here, I think sustainability in the ocean is of utmost importance and there is a big interest in these countries, so it is our hope in the National Institute of the West African Council that this council-sounding proposal will be accepted and the government will be assigned to investigate this possibility. According to tradition, I believe the Council of Parliamentary Directives of the Western Council are generally referred to the State Department, so after this discussion, I suggest that the matter be discussed there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-23-52.u85	A respectable president. I recommend a synopsis proposal from us in the Iceland Department of the Westnoric Council. It reads: ▪ The Council of the United States concludes to hide the government to see if agreement can be made with the Country Governments of the Faeroe Islands and Greenland for the subsidies of young flights between the three countries. I'm going to read the report because it's very short, with the permission of a president: This proposal is presented on the basis of Western Council's conclusions. 1,2019 adopted at the annual meeting of the Council on 23 October 2019 in Nuuk. The report is based on the point of the conclusion. Despite the fact that Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, and Greenland once belonged to the same kingdom, only a small percentage of young people in the three countries have the opportunity to travel to these neighboring countries and learn about their culture. To ensure continued good cooperation between countries for common interests, it is necessary to make it possible for Western youths to get to know their neighboring countries, their culture, and their inhabitants. Airlines between Western countries and within them are very high. Western youth expenses, or reduced prices for young people on air tickets, would make it possible for young people to travel between the three countries to an increased extent. The model for the Interrail train centres could be based to allow the reduction of the fare for a certain amount of time. It is therefore suggested that governments consider whether airlines would have to be able to improve the potential losses that could be achieved by bringing in Western juvenile expenses. Otherwise, a Western state could set up a fund that gave young people the strength to travel to other Western countries. As it is now, youths in Western countries have the opportunity to apply for strength to travel by sports associates, schools, or cultural groups. In this context, there is a Greenland Fund and NATA (North Atlantic Tourism Association). However, youths who travel on their own from one country to another cannot apply for strength to do so. This resolution is put forward in order to support the traveling of young people between the three countries in support of a Western cooperation in the future. As I said earlier, this proposal was adopted at the annual meeting of the Western Council in Nuuk. Although she may not have had as much discussion as the proposal I made earlier, it is clear that it is the stated objective of the Western Council to promote further cooperation between these Western countries, which is to encourage young people to travel through these countries and get to know culture one another well and to promote further cooperation in business, culture, and future lists. I want to add this to the fact that there are, of course, considerable opportunities to work better and closer with the Faeroeses and the Greenlandites. Many companies have a special look at Greenland and are building a situation there. The Greenlanders have had a positive view of the Icelanders when it comes to business cooperation, unfortunately, there is not a special vacation agreement between these two countries, but hopefully it will be experienced soon. On the other hand, we have also been involved in significant business dealings with the Faeroes, and there has been a free trade contract and is still. There may be a slight difference between parties who agreed to this fine conclusion. I would like to make a very good impression on young flights, but I wondered if the money laws on this market could be of some benefit to me in further cooperation with this objective and if it would be necessary to come to state management. I don't know. But there is reason to guess -- I think I'm sure I'm right - that the French airline is owned by the state and the Greenlandn airline also. Perhaps that is why these countries immediately looked to that view. Everyone in the Western Council agreed that there was a great opportunity to encourage further communication between the countries and that developing such things may well contribute to it. I think it is even more common to think that Icelandic youths have gone to Asia than they have visited our next neighbor in Greenland and the Faeroe Islands and perhaps worth thinking, " Is there no reason to encourage our familiarity with our neighbors in Western countries? '
