ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u1	Borist has received a letter from the following petitioners requesting every time to provide written answers to queries: From the Minister of Justice for the question on deck. 701, about prison sentences and penalties, from Jón Þór Ólafsson. From the Sea Scourge and Agriculture Minister for the Scourge. 790 on nominees, work and operating groups, from the Þorsteinn son of Víglundsson. From travel, industrial and innovation ministers for the purposes of robotic inquiry. 791, on committees and management groups, from the Þorsteinn Friðbertsson of Víglundsson; on deck. 715, the transport and distribution systems of electrical energy, from María Hjálmarsdóttir; on the icicle. 706, about the delivery security of electrical energy, from the Njáll of Saturbersson, and on the icicle. 779, on Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u2	A respectable president. A recent Eurostat survey shows that 6% of Iceland's countries are unable to pay their bills on time. It's over 20,000 people. It's under the bills for water, heating, electricity, etc. Then we should ask: If they cannot pay these bills, what other accounts can they not pay? We also need to ask ourselves: " Can these people pay rents, buy food, and other necessities for themselves and their children? This survey shows that Sweden's performance is far better than ours, 2.2%. There are two thirds more in Iceland than there are in Sweden. For the Norwegian, half, 2.7%. This shows that poverty is more widespread in this country than in the rest of the North countries. Six percent of sufferers receive pensions from an insurance agency that is uninvolved by all incomes and 5.6% of older citizens. This means that 95% is reduced. This is a tremendous impairment, for in 2015 it was 36 billion in older cities than 44 billion 2019. We're talking about the increase in microsurgents by 5.5 billion, from 2015/2219 and 7 billion in older cities. Together, we are talking of an increase of 12.5 billion in physical impairment, an increase in poverty.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u3	A respectable president. During the past week, there was a lot of discussion about the situation at Lands Hospital, a university hospital, the situation in the emergency department, and the general health - care department. Much was discussed on a welfare committee, and much helpful and important information was provided from the people working on the floor, working under these circumstances, and from those who work in the general health system. There were many solutions, and many routes were discussed. It even came. so that the problem is not the emergency department itself; it is a problem in the emergency department because no other less cheap, more efficient and more efficient solutions are used within the medical system. These are the information provided by the people working in the emergency department, working at the Lands Hospital, and others in the medical system, who have been pointing out solutions that can be of benefit to them. It came, for example. it shows that about half of the events leading up to the emergency room, half the stress, are due to the aging of the people, for example. The medical facility can solve much of the cost. It turns out that e.g. The hospital staff that the National Hospital runs is about 40 to50% more expensive than any other nursing home. The nursing home, which does not receive enough due time and does not have enough contracts, is sending people into the emergency room now because they do not reach their full - timers. So it seems to me that we need to gain an even greater perspective on the cost of analysis within the medical system so that we can make use of the resources there - a lot of money, but never enough. They need to be better and more efficient and more efficient if they are to achieve a better perspective and to render service in the right place.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u4	Mr. President. Numbers are small without context. Consider four facts. Did you know that the cost of running the emergency hospital is about 4.7 billion dollars? which is lower than what the fishing fees have dropped since that government? Did you know that this government has decided to lower the bank tax by 8 billion dollars? the same time the situation at the Land Hospital has been described as an emergency on the staff and the patients? Did you know that one of the government's priorities is to eliminate a particularly tax from major companies who want to buy big ships? I'm not joking, Mr. President, and at the same time over 100 seniors have to live in the hospital because of their lack of nurses. Did you know that the real increase in the land hospital, taking into account population growth during the reign of this government, is only 5%? Mr. President. Is there a 5% incident? Svandís, Bjarni, and Lilja to voters three years ago, they said, "If you choose us, we'll put another 5% to the hospital in three years? In this context, most people would ask: Shouldn't the hospital emergency department be saved from all places before it's time for the big deed and banks? The money seems to exist, but unfortunately, we do not have the right government. If nothing changes, nothing changes. It doesn't need any more committees, it's just wealthy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u5	The president reminds us that if referred to, they will direct their case to the president and give the members of Congress or Ministers the full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u6	Mr. President. Me and the Icelanders are used to things when it comes to the nature of our country. However, the Advertising worm that covered much of the country in December and in recent weeks has revealed how vulnerable we really are and how weak our infrastructure is. In recent decades our life - style has changed and has become increasingly dependent on the electricity of our daily activities, even the house - to - house warming of heating centers, in many cases, on electricity and home phones, in contrast with what used to be the case. Little wonder, then, that when long - standing power shortages arise, entire communities are being beaten. Similarly, social infrastructure, whether with electricity, avalanches, education systems, transportation, or health care, should be the least important factor in where people choose to live. It should be the government's priorities, Mr. President, to settle conditions and contribute to the well-being and safety of people throughout the country, and we must put more power into that structure. At the same time, we're supposed to strengthen the core areas around the country and build more cities. It was a success to build a city in Reykjavík. Now it is time for more people to build up for a greater balance in the country, as it seems possible in Akureyri. Mr. President. The structure of wood should not be political bitterbones or to run into the holes of the diatom - capital against the country's settlements, the environment against its usefulness. It can all go so well together. But we need to work on one thing and change our way of thinking, change our system, and change our conversations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u7	A respectable president. I'm going to begin by reading, by permission of the President, briefly from a press release on the Board's Homepage, in view of the discussion and the comments that fell earlier on the health system: ▪ Medical institutions and sheepfowl of the past few years: The government's contribution to the health of the capital area increased by 24% over the years from 2017/2020. The increase to Hospitals was 12% in the same period, 8% in Akureyri Hospital, and 10% in the average health care centers across the country. Standards that have been presented in public discussions, including for massive cuts at National Hospitals and Health Centres in the country, there is no evidence to support. I think it is important that we discuss in this room the condition of the health system and the fact that there is no solution at all in adding money. We must have to watch how our money is spent and how our system is built up. One factor that has been made clear in the discussion of health matters is older citizens' situation. Of course, there is horror to think that people need to lie in the halls of the emergency room and that older people, so to speak, are in bed at the emergency room when we are supposed to have better and more practical solutions for that exact group. That is why I think it is quite clear that when it comes to home service to the elderly, we need to give it a lot of attention, for despite our important goal of building more nursing homes, this is not the only solution. I allow myself to doubt that those who are out there knowing how to need some kind of service would love to get into a nursing home. I don't think very few people do it until the situation is very bad. It is clear that when it comes to home service, we need to act, and we also feel very important that we ensure the freedom of our choice of service. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u8	A respectable president. In discussing the political state at the beginning of the year, Prime Minister said by permission of the president: Depending on budgetary income, the largest proportion will increase in the minimum amount of income and decrease in the highest. According to the Chef history, arrangements have increased by 73.1% at the top of the income field, T1, while the provision of the income is at the bottom of the income, T1, have increased by 40.2%. The prime minister, however, takes the money too, but then the picture suddenly turns T10 into trouble for one year. Why? Yes, because capital gains dropped between 2017 and 2018. However, while T10 has over six-fold higher capital gains than T9, there are no other income contributions. Comparing any amount of revenue, each of them, with income ten, with capital income is thus comparing apples and oranges, since no other revenue will be significantly altered by changing capital income income. With such devices, prime minister will finally find a comparison, with a lower income level being better off than a higher income level, at least proportionately. However, the relative increase in T10 is higher than in T1 over a longer period. There, the finder's prize receives prime minister - three times a hrrah and all that. One year in income balance, when capital pay is taken. On the other hand, if capital money is divorced, income waste and all that can be said to be true is that the year 2018 was bad for capital owners, not an increase. Thus, prime minister used classical deception in his letter of transfer at the beginning of the year, lying in statistics, selecting a set of data to paint a picture that only looks good, but is not right when you're better looking.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u9	A respectable president. I think it's the right time to skim up the sleeves when we watch the situation in the economy and the unambiguous signs of crumbling that can be seen in many places. Tourism is slowing down significantly and talking about the economic year there this year. Similarly, the construction industry, even speaking of a significant reduction in construction projects this year, is slowing down, and it is clear that in many places the year 2020 will be a fairly quiet year. Then there is the opportunity to increase significantly in public investments, and it is enough to take into consideration the opportunities. Aside from the necessary structure of the health system and the growing number of nurses, it is quite clear that we have not kept up - to - date with the growing number of tourists on the highways of the country. There we can indeed increase significantly, and during the past few weeks of frequent accidents on the highways show that there is no shortage, as well as winter service on highways and major highways. In addition, reports of power failure and lack of electricity along with the storm's shortest reminder of the need to attack the broad structure of the electrical distribution system. The fact is, Mr. President, public investments have been overly starving for a decade. Even though the present government has slightly increased there, it does not seem to produce the excessive relaxation that has developed in a public investment during the 1990's. Therefore, it would be right for these circumstances to adopt the budget of 2020 and add at least a few extras. 30 billion a year in public investments, looking forward to the next two to three years, with 30 billion increases in order to solve the extreme lack of infrastructure during the past decade and to raise up in the economy when it is cooling off. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u10	A respectable president. There are people who feel that freedom is of no particular importance. That's a point of view. I feel that freedom means almost everything to myself, but there are people who talk about the importance of freedom on conflict days, e.g. In a campaign, however, there is no way to support the matter of freedom when it is submitted. You might ask: Is it important, or is it not important that Iceland's people have the freedom to sing? If not, okay, there's a certain attitude. But he must support Pirata's bill, which is to be followed by the National Singer of Iceland, who thinks freedom is important Is it important, or is it not important that the inhabitants of the country make beer in their own homes for their own consumption without threatening six years in prison? If not, okay, there's a certain attitude. But this should be supported by another Pirata bill, which is followed by a discussion on homemaking that thinks freedom is important. Is it important, or is it not important that the inhabitants of the country have the right to exercise self - determination to decide for themselves who will do what to do with that body? If not, okay, it's a certain attitude, but the one who claims to advocate individual freedom, even basically, must support Pirata's bill on criminal drug abuse. One or one who does not support it cannot afford to lecture others about individual freedom. Here, I have listed only some of the freedom issues of Pirata, which have been more difficult to gain support from the direction of those whose freedom is the highest in world affairs, you know, the Independence Party. It appears that it refers to freedom as some romantic dream of ancient stories that have nothing to do with modern and real life. I call upon the self - appointed freedom heroes to take some of the energy that goes on revealing others as so - called left men and using them to cooperate with the Pirates and others in the ways and respect of freedom that most of us here at least say so love so much.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u11	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss just a proposal for a council resolution that I'd like to contribute in the near future to the molding of a whole-scale sports policy. This proposal has been made before I make it a little different. The fact is, achievements have given us a noble place among the people of the country, and our successful athletes have been a fine foreign culture. We all know and talk about the importance of good role models. The models in this field are invaluable for all prophylaxis and development of youth and sports. These factors may be considered more important now than ever before, when there are data that show that more than 80% of the young people and children aged 11◯17 years do not exercise enough each day. It affects not only body parts but also brain development. During the past decade, Icelandic contractors have called attention to their poor economic and rights status and to their December. wrote a group of such successful athletes to a request to the Ministry of Education and to others involved in working on the pay and rights of the people in this country. In the synonym that I will submit, it is suggested that a minister be assigned to shape such a comprehensive policy of athletes, of policies that include both professional and economic strength. It is important to aim in cooperation with Iceland's Olympian Union and rural communities to ensure that as many as possible share in the work. Thus, such a course is most likely to become a powerful foundation for a key support to our accomplishments, which, in turn, leads to what we want to achieve for our young ones, an incentive to move and share in a healthy way of life. The motion is ready, and I expect it and wish this case to be well established at the council. That would really be in harmony with the importance of the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u12	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear stepped up here to measure the equation and the exchange of income and the like. I need some further diagnosis of his speech to figure out exactly what he was going to do. I just came into it, so I'm not going to comment on it, but thank him for bringing it up. It was noted that today before Christmas, the Haggis reported that when you look at a step - by - line trade, there was an even greater compare than in all European countries, with the exception of Slovenia and Slovakia. Iceland has been there for some time, and has rather improved its status in this respect, as measured by the Gini score, which is a set of ways to measure differences or equations in communities, as well as other criteria based on revenues or revenues. Both of these findings showed the strong position of Iceland in this regard. I think it's important that we keep this in mind that it is very often, in both this room and elsewhere, that there is an argument that there is a difference between the growth that cannot be supported by statistical observations and that there are more conflicting issues than in the countries we compare with. If you have a what? paritaprevir This information must be considered by the Levite Leví of Gunnarsson, but it conflicts with the consistent measurements carried out by Haguembourn and other people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u13	V.E.G. President. According to UNICEF, over 80,000 children living in Iceland suffer physical or sexual abuse before 18 years of age. The organization has set in motion a violent defense campaign called the game of hiding. When the published statistics were published in May 2019, Daðason Hádúnson, the highest. Social and child-friendly minister, specific procedures including launching testing projects that would focus on analysing information across a system that indicates unacceptable paediatric conditions and targeted assessment of child well-being in a specific area. This project was started at the end of June 2019. Yesterday, the same minister announced the establishment of centers that will have the intention of holding on to information on child abuse. The Central Center will be the task of being a consultant to governments and offering suggestions on developing policies and measures in these areas. This information and professional advice for policy makers will be available to the Children's Institute and to the government at any given time. Besides, it's got the highest. The Minister of Einar Daðason decided to hide the Children's Institute to map and analyze the information available regarding child abuse and consult other public members to draw out information and picture of the situation so that policies and measures can be developed with the goal of eliminating violence against children in Iceland. Finally, Mr. President, I'd like to call attention to a council hearing I've recommended and have been sent to a review of children's rights to know their source. It means that the Minister of Justice will be committed to creating laws that will provide the protection of children conceived by sex - cell donors the right to identify their biological origin. This case has been for treatment, I think, well. A welfare committee for some time. I encourage the committee to handle the matter and complete it so that it can be taken care of here because the rest of the North countries are already much more than we are in this area.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u14	Mr. President. There are many kinds of natural disasters on this earth, and we have often been put to the test. There are, for example. Floods of many kinds, avalanches, and floods, and floods of rivers. We would like to use this site to remind us of one and another of our assignments, and I would like to mention the tide specifically. It comes from a rising sea level, which can be up to three, four millimeters a year, and it adds to the speed, and the tsunamis I would like to mention are caused by earthquakes, avalanches, or avalanches in the sea. We were reminded of just such tsunamis in both the South Valley and, in part, in Flatty, after severe avalanches that took place there. I believe we have to prepare to raise and build marine barriers in many countries over the next few decades, to contribute both funds and funds. It's about surface floodwaters, avalanches, tsunamis, and other causes, and then floods. We need to combine the funds discussed in the so - called disaster fund that has not yet been made. This is even linked to volcanic eruptions and earthquakes. They need research, uniting them to one place, and the same defenses themselves. The first step, as mentioned earlier, is to raise present gardens. They cannot wait and have to be done in many places in the country, not just where there are avalanche risks, but where there are lowland shores. Finally, I would like to remind you that we too need helicopters at hospitals, such as Isafjörður, Nesafjörður, and the West. It is good to have Thor in the west at times when things happen, but much more is needed and to keep priority.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u15	Mr. President. I made it a subject of last year's budget talk that politicians are more and less involved in making money, and I am increasingly inclined to hand out what is said on budgets at a time. I happen to be able to make a confession here that by 2015, at the end of the year, I joined in agreeing to the law of public law, which is probably one of the largest possible transfers of power from politics to officials that no one has ever chosen. At the same time, all market income and income were placed under one hat, and they all fell into the same black hole in the Ministry of finance. Why am I making this a subject? Yes, it is because of the situation that exists in the treasure of life. So it happens that in one of my past lives, I took care of and watched influx into that fund. In 2013, when I got up out of that chair, that fund was quite thick and stored in the Secret Bank. With the changes made, this fund and others disappeared into some black hole in the Secret Bank. Still, the fund is under control. There are employees, or employee, but it does not seem that there was a sound basis for what the good men had to make because the money exists and existed, and there was nothing to be done to make the necessary effort to build surface alarm. This should teach us that it is not always good luck to take power from politics to non - elected officials. Also, when a senator's surveillance role is made more difficult, as in this case, it may not be a good thing to control. It seems that there was not enough money there to accomplish the required improvements.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u16	A respectable president. The last few weeks have been a great reminder of the power, and it has brought us to our attention where we are placed on the earth. More than a week ago, there is good time to remember the storm and the avalanche in the west. There is much building work, but there is no bill in the local people. The government must arrive in a swift and decisive manner. A few weeks ago, severe storms in society covered the land, transportation problems, telecommunications, electrical disturbances, and manpower damage. Serious weaknesses were identified in various parts of the infrastructure, which the common people believed were in an acceptable condition. As a result, there were centuries of criticism, and injuries heard that governments had slept on the watch. Monuments should have been better protected, the maintenance of energy distribution and transport systems would have been inadequate and not consistent with increasing demand and need. Communication systems are not in harmony with the call of time. Today, however, development is important as well as the future. Inboxes, whether of electricity, education systems, transportation, or health care, should be the least important where people choose to live. But that's not the case today. I wondered, and others have expressed themselves in a similar way, whether there is reason to pause in the cause of these events, to look to the environmental, organizational, and decision - making policies, possibly to define a part of this again with special and clear emphasis on national security and public interest, that all our basic systems around the country are well protected, well maintained, and met all normal requirements. Special consideration will be given to the inhabitants of the country. My opinion, a respectable president, is that the legislators owe it to the legislature that these points will be examined further.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u17	A respectable president. The airports at Egls and Akureyri are basic transport services that ensure public transportation and access to basic services. They are also important reserve airports because of international flights and the basis for new flights into the country. It was crystalting in the discussion when a transport program was submitted to the end of the last year that a common vision for this home airport needs to be sharpened. Then, on December 19, there was a turning point in these matters with the will-to-be declaration of the transport and rural Ministers and the industrial, industrial, and innovation ministers of further development on the Akureyri airport to strengthen the field as a gate or portal to the country in the interest of the whole, Northland and East, and Icelandic tourism. A task force was appointed to work in accordance with the declaration's will. He is aimed at making proposals for future improvement at the air station, developing a post-marketing analysis in Northern countries as a destination, and finally making a cost plan for the enlargement or restoration of workers and services. The group represents the two advisers, Akureyri City, SSNE, Marketing Office of Northern Europe, and Istavia. The first task of cooperation is to identify ways to make sure that the terminal can do its job. This is to be done quickly, and the group is to be completed by the end of March 2020. The group has already met twice. There's a budget for cooperation, the PPP project, the improvement or enlargement of the air base. The transfer of the Eglish state of the airport to Istavia from the beginning of this year is under way and the implementation of the Convention on that project is being accomplished. This gives rise to extra space to promote other international airports within the government's work contract and Istavia, including the United States, U.S.A. Around Akureyri Airport. A policy strategy is then used for the management of the General Transport Committee, where an opportunity is open to a careful review of a new flight policy and will further explain the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u18	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for participating in a discussion at the Assembly Hall on the status of nursing homes and Hospitals. By permission of the president, the government covenant stated: They will also consider strengthening the platform of nursing homes... It has not been available to me. Rather, it is much more limited to the financial resources the nursing homes have due to the growing nursing staff of the local residents. In addition, paying is reduced to the absolute value of the third year in a row, and this is surprising, since it is known that people who are now entering a nursing home enjoy far worse health. The threshold has grown, and it is harder to get into a nursing home despite the obvious need. The nursing home is an important link in the health system, and then we are asked how it works. Healthcare Minister intends to increase the level of transparency in the case category, but complete transparency can be noted in the implementation of budgets from year to year in terms of the annual spending of the GDs. The amount of nursing and medical care required for the nursing home should be clearly established. This is especially true when a nurse has increased - a nurse's weight, as it is called. It has increased, and I know that medical staff in nursing homes have gone no further than its obligation only to care for and care for the inhabitants of their homes. The surgeon general has also noted that there is a significant need to improve the quality of the household trade, and as a result, there is a tendency to further send nurses into the hospital. This has led to the fact that the so - called flux problem, which is not a good word, is a reality that makes health care professionals of nurses unable to feed their sickest residents safely. I'm calling it where the situation seems to be the worst in the capital area. Most of those in need of a nursing home are trapped in a land hospital, the most expensive option. To this end, I also realize that there is more need for home service and nursing, and this has to be kept in my hands. Finally, I'd like to mention that at the Central Party Parliament, we have again proposed a local selection analysis for a new national hospital and that, together with this study, there will be an investigation of the willingness to use the construction of a land hospital on a different health care channel but now, for example, there. A nursing home. In fact, some people allow themselves to say that the largest nursing home in the country is already on Ring Road. Thank you again for the highest. Minister for taking well in this special discussion, and I will be eager to observe her answers as well as all of those here who would like to assist.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u19	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for putting these matters on a program, of course, the subject of the Ministry of Health each day but also the subject of a discussion at the General Assembly and at the same time. The welfare committee. Hv. A senator requested to discuss the extension of contracts with nursing homes in particular and the support of a management field as reflected in its introduction and to increase the transparency of budgetary budgets, etc. Moreover, the question was discussed. A senator to see if a part of the problem could be solved by the use of better institutions in the area of Reykjavík. I think it is right, before I take part in answering the question's specific points, that today there are three major projects that have to do with the health of the financial system. It is thus estimated to be about five billion dollars. in the construction of a new Hospital in 2020 and 1.7 billion in the construction of a new nursing home this year. In addition, there is a financial program on a new community wing at the Akureyri Hospital, which is long timely, in 2023 and 2024, so at the time of the programme a total of 100 billion in investments on health levels are expected. Never in history have we seen such structure in this area, for it is long since timely after past laws of neglect. Thus, during this period, we are taking a very big step in important construction projects during the season of election. In terms of the negotiations, there have been agreements between health insurance and nurses. It was negotiated with each party, but the contracts agree with a total of 2,468 compartments, with a minimum of 32.5 billion. on the price of this year. Along with these treaties, parties and the European Union have made a business agreement with them. It includes, in fact, it is. that during the contract period, there will be real information on the business and the cost of nursing clinics being analysed in cooperation, thereby preparing a review on the basis of their management, in line with both the Treaty as a result. A senator, though, mentions as much as repeated comments. The budget board, at least The majority of the committee, but I assume that the less part of the Committee has had the same tips. Of course, that work is essential to strengthening the platform, and I have high hopes for this cooperation, that they have both members or all members, as it were, would like to explain more clearly what the basis is, namely. what service is being performed and what its real cost is. It is a challenge, such as in other areas of health care, and it is a matter of special interest to me. There is a specific quality check in nursing homes through RAI assessments that all local nursing homes are being conducted at least twice a year. In this assessment the number of good-looking monitors, including referrals that may indicate the consequences of a possible subset. If a nursing home does not meet all health standards, it is given a tip from a surgeon's office, but quality - care in nursing homes is strong and no reason to expect safety to exist in that area. Because of the growing numbers we see in the elderly over the years, we increasingly stress that older ones live for as long as possible, and this is consistent with their own priorities. This may require a different care from the nursing staff. We need to be alert to reevaluate the design and standards, to support their professional foundations, and even more so to reevaluate, as mentioned earlier. I have particularly strengthened Alzheimer's organisation to establish peer education for nursing staff who are aimed at strengthening professional staff in their services and in particular in the services of individuals with congestive heart failure. In terms of financial growth, government laws on public finances indicate how financial laws are presented and the Ministry is bound by them. The procedure is by law, but by the law a task is divided between the language fields and the litigation and the financial rights to a particular class of lawsuits, regardless of who is the trader or service provider. Whether the accompanying sections of the budget might be more effective, but there is something I think and self - examination in my own time while I was considering these matters at the council. The last few weeks have been discussed about the graduation problems of the Land Hospital, and the question has often come to mind whether health facilities in the country can help. There is formal communication between the head of the Land Hospital and the director of other health institutions, and there is daily contact with adjacent health institutions for cooperation, etc., but I realize that there is a great deal of professional ambition among the leaders. Because of it. At the end of this discussion, a member of the Central Party spoke specifically about using the buildings to another purpose, we need to be careful that this is a highly specialized design and, in the opinion of those who are best familiar with probably the most complex building project in Iceland, which is designed to be the essence of treatment at a high-tech hospital. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u20	Mr. President. By permission of the President, the government covenant says: A nursing card adds stress to the hospitals and reduces the quality of life of the elderly. There is evidence that the need for building is significant in the next five years. There will be a major building up and will be published in the government financial program. [...] You will also be concerned about strengthening the management ground of nursing homes. By the end of 2019, service contracts were arranged between Iceland's Medical Insurance and 40 nurses, who claim to be a great retreat. Money cannot be expected because of the increased need for services provided by services and will even reduce - because of the people's need for service. Happily, this defective system was canceled by the 2016 treaties, but it is now recycled by the current government. The party was put on the wall: You will receive this contract or nothing, no matter how the government now saw to it that there would be no deal. There is also a need to strengthen the management base of nursing households, and there is an increase in space and there is also a need to be increasing, with a small cost of the community of welfare services, these same operators, to offer their assistance in increasing space by 70, without increasing cost, and by other 13, at low cost, if the government, the government, are willing to negotiate the service. Sadly, the government has not been ready for that conversation. Thirty - eight feet on one board at a low cost is a lot. So I want to challenge the highest. A health secretary to examine this offer. There's a lot of rooming around 83. There's a lot of money saved in other parts of the system because of patients who freeze hospitals.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u21	A respectable president. First, I want to thank a prominent authority on this fine and necessary discussion that is necessary here today. It is quite clear, as mentioned in the opening talks, that in the years that follow, the number of residence homes needs to be greatly increased. They're working on it. It's, for example. being opened 99 rooms on Plain Road within a few days or weeks. Of course, they are welcome, but it turns out that considerable of them will go to eliminate other compartments, and we are also moving pretty quickly to do so. I think we have to look for other ways in which we will take care of older citizens in the next few years. There is a tremendous increase in numbers. Their numbers have increased by about Sixty percent from the turn of the century, and we need to look for new ways. With this objective, we have three members of the council, the one standing here, and the other. Councilmen of the Guðjón of S. Brjánsson and Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson proposed new arrangements to reduce the residences. There is one suggestion about the health of the elderly, who is now quite well started in many places, which delays the arrival of the elderly in their homes. It is an action program against aging prejudice, a proposal made by Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, and a suggestion for delinquency of age that gives people the freedom to decide when they will stop working. In the years that we will have to care for and deserve a good night of life, all these and other factors will lead to an increase in the number of older citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u22	A respectable president. The problem is less space in nursing homes or less home service than is needed. This is not a new problem. We've known this for years. We've been pointing this out repeatedly on a budget committee. This is not unpredictable or insoluble. Yet, there is not yet a plan to solve this problem, something remarkable, after all these years. However, there are more problems, e.g. that Iceland's health care insurance contracts are not met by a surgeon's quality requirements. There's one problem, too. The biggest problem may already be that even though we know what the problem is, nothing is being done to solve the problem. Granted, projects are going on, but they don't come about by being a solution. They will not prevent anything; they will make sure that the problem may not get worse. We're not sure, though. It might get worse. It might get a little better, but it won't solve the problem. A respectable president. We simply have a government that promises, but in action we have the facts: No progress. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u23	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir Árnadóttir Kolmira Aarnadótir, for starting this case, and thank you for sharing in the discussion. On the health insurance website of Iceland, we have a report on January 15th. to sign 43 contracts and services of nurses in the country for two years, but no contract was made for their services in 2019. A contract was made with each employee of nursing and/or residence agreement, but not with a cross-cording enterprise in welfare services and Icelandic community organisations as usual. Contract agreements cover a total of 2,468 nursing and habitats, with a value of about 32.5 billion. This year at the rate of 2020. This is in accordance with the government's administration covenant, which highlights large attendance at nursing facilities and aims to strengthen the area of nursing and to promote other services, such as rehabilitation, homekeeping, and daily training. A respectable president. During the past two weeks, much has been discussed in the Hospital Emergency Department. There is talk of the flow problem of the Land Hospital and the added stress that comes with it. Sick older ones are in the emergency departments as well as in other hospital wards, where there is no room for medical care. Now there is room opening on Plain Road, which relieves the waiting lists, but the need is great. There are 15 waiting spaces that have been replaced during the construction of a nursing home in the capital area. With the arrival of a new space at Plain, this space will be laid down. Perhaps it would have been wise to keep them open. This department is well designed, so there is nothing wrong with continuing to keep it open. Although new space is being opened here, especially in view of the need for a nurse's waiting list on Aranesp, more and more facilities have been reached. But they're working on it, and they've been doing pretty well so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u24	Mr. President. Last night, in an unprepared inquiry class, the highest level was set. According to the health minister, it would be better for a health policy approved at the General Assembly last June, and it would have been better to have supported members of the Parliament who believe that health matters were a class that would not be particularly well qualified to store in holes. Rather, it would be better for them to agree on a longer future form of conversation. These words may be in harmony with the short words received by health professionals from a minister for publicly speaking about the problem that exists. You see, it seems death - dealing that scapegoats outside the real population are responsible for the situation. The fact is, it was especially due to the management of health - care ministers on matters related to aging, including nursing homes, which we were sitting by at the health conference's vote. Although much can be said on the subject, significant comments can still be made because of what is not there. Clinic services are not part of the Ministry of Health. A nursing home never ended came up in the review of a company's welfare services, most of which are nursing homes, critical of the lack of communication involved in the process. That criticism was answered by the health authorities, including the U.S. found a welfare committee, in a way that would be involved later. Now the question is, when does it come to the nurses? When will aging come? At a marathon meeting with the various health professionals within the medical system last week, there was some magazine representatives of a welfare agency did not like to consult them for advice and ideas on how to deal with aging issues, e.g. The association between nursing homes, home services, and hospital services, the great problems we now face. We know that these parties are generally solutionable; they do not have a sponsor in a state or city. However, they have extensive knowledge and extensive experience. [[The president calls.]] I'm the highest. Minister to seek advice from these best familiar authorities. This must be our allies in the challenge we face. This should at least be done. To be our allies and I'm going to finish my case by referring to a word or two. þm. Vala Helgadóða, chairman of the welfare committee, who read up here from a memo from the same organization. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u25	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir For this discussion and for the minister to participate, Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir The Year's Daughter. That's what's been saying. It's been a bad word. It's a flow problem. You can't say that, that's such a bad word. But I think, and I'm pretty convinced that there was some misunderstanding about that word. It was supposed to be the government's ignorance problem, from where it's coming from. And I can back it up because it has never been made an accurate cost analysis. What is required of all those in need of a nursing home? This has made the community of welfare services a requirement that they have pointed out in the year after year that we are cutting down, and they are not getting the necessary funds. Now this is the point where they're talking about sending the individuals to a hospital that is extremely expensive and is kind of ridiculous. A minister came in to promote home nursing. Yeah, it would be really cool, but there's been a serious problem. After people are released from hospitals, older citizens, may be home alone, and unable to support themselves, they have nothing in the refrigerator to eat, no one to watch, and no surveillance. People who are basically alone at home and starving. There is a big problem, and of course it needs to be fixed. There's plenty to take. This is a problem that needs to be solved, but this government clearly cannot.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u26	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for this discussion that I consider very timely. I am speaking mainly of the well - being of nursing homes throughout the country. I am content here in this talk to discuss him only, end up with enough work to be done. It is now taking two years, Mr. President, since negotiations of the Medical Insurance government, the Social Services Association of the United States, and the Union of Icelandic rural society have sailed into the sea. Since then, there have been no talks. The answers are that single nursing homes are free to negotiate their ministry specifically. Here the state seems to have the same approach as the ostrich: When he's afraid of something, he puts his head in the sand. The population in general is getting old, the average age is rising, but fortunately the health of older people is getting better. They can stay in their homes longer, and we all want them. Of course, when health problems begin, older citizens have the right to enter such adequate homes. But instead, as everyone knows, sick older people have been admitted to hospitals with related costs. Of course, this challenge must be addressed, and it must also be handled by nursing homes and contracts for their services. According to an independent assessment, this service is more expensive than the government pays for today. I challenge the highest. Ministers of health to negotiate with the court of these homes in this situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u27	Mr. President. As noted in the case of other members of Parliament, a recent agreement was made between the Medical Insurance and the Nurses' Director. Part of the agreement on domestic management is that a comprehensive assessment of the nursing home will be made, as many members of the Parliament have been able to do. This is basic and is even more important. in the Treaty, for humans need to build on real information when they weigh the cost. There's been a lot of stuff going over here, including... has been claimed that the government has done nothing to attack the problem. Of course, that's not true. For example, it can be noted that during this financial program, there are expected to be a 780 medical space, of which 560 new ones. There's quite a bit of room. I think there's more space than ever has been built in Iceland during a four-year period. The point is, we may need a new thought in this group of subjects. We cannot go on and on with the same model and think that the solution will have to be made with an endless number of nursing rooms. Even though we are considerably younger, we already have more nursing facilities on our heads than our neighboring countries do. In fact, it has been that way for years. There's a wrong estimate and a wrong system. The big elephant in the room is probably just how little we use our money for home nursing and home service. There we need to make a big effort, and it is probably the opportunity that we as a community have both to improve our ministry and to spend money wisely, these ministerial servants in a fine way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u28	Mr. President. I heard the highest. Ministers are talking about the neglect list of the previous government. Now I hope she's so ambitious she doesn't want to leave herself a long neglect list. Of course, it is a good price for us to build new space, but it is of little value if we do not provide funds for them. There is a built-in management hall in the system today, and this is particularly unfair because there are several operators. We are, for example. With self-employers and privates, we have communities, and then other nursing homes are expelled from medical institutions. It's such a difference between rural society that there's no pleasure in it. If we take, for example. That's 400 million paying for this town. K. every year that will have to be removed from another service, legal, or illegal, by young people, from culture, art, sports. If we take a weapons farm with a small nursing home, three people died last year. This reduced the budget, but the same amount was needed to keep the home moving. It's a problem with our rural society, and it's unsurpassed. Unsubstitute list highest. A health minister will certainly be in mind when the next government fails to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u29	A respectable president. This has been made clear, and it is clear that the aging of the people is part of what adds to the pressures of the health system in general. Many good things are being done, and this government and government over the past few years have put great emphasis on building room, resting space, supporting homes, increasing space for brain failure, and so on, which is all very good but takes time. All these fine treatments will not prevent the need for nurses. The need for this is tremendous, and it shows that nursing is always increasing. It's becoming more of a hospital service, I'm trying to tell you. Hence, it is important that nursing homes are enabled to care for most people as best they can so that nurses do not have to enter hospital emergency departments. Based on today's nursing weight, nursing homes are the most expensive resources we have. So I believe that while we're working on all the important solutions that are currently working on, it is extremely important to use the solutions we have quickly and well, which are free of space in the current nurses, both here in the capital area and in the vicinity of the capital area, which I think could make much relief, as the 24 - hour emergency department costs 210,000 bucks, on a medical unit 120,000,550,000 dollars, on the aging department 75,000. Compared to some 35,000,400,000 nursing homes. So I think we should try to make good use of the available space that is already in the southwest corner in order to manage the money in the health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u30	A respectable president. Only with the lack of progress. A new land hospital was a long time ago. Building a new land hospital is not an improvement, that is a payment on debt. We have the problem with nursing homes or home service that we are not building practical business sizes. This has been repeated in discussing these issues in a budget of the stakeholders within the welfare companies. It is certainly not easy to do so by looking to the land area, where a 90 - space nursing home may not be being built. It might just be bigger than the area calls for, but it's something to consider. The discussion has used the word "perfusion problem, " and it is a little interesting to examine the use of that word. If you go to a magazine and then look up it, you will see that it is first used in 1998, next in 2006 and 2013, the latest rush of the word comes in the picture we now have. So the problem, as I said in my first speech, is not new. It's an old problem we're still trying to deal with. Since then, there have been a number of budgets and a number of budgets, and this problem has never been resolved. We're in some kind of self-destruction shit. They've made plans, and then they've funded those who don't solve it. The minister claims to be bound by financial programs and funding in his transport address, but he forgets that a minister is part of a majority government that makes up the same binding over which the minister complains.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u31	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir This special discussion of the condition of nursing homes and Hospitals by Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir The Year's Daughter. This is truly needed discussion, although I feel that it is part of a chapter that has been here today a bit pessimism, pessimism, but needed. I want to thank you very much. Her minister's important input into the discussion. Let me mention four factors that are truly clear evidence that this great challenge is being faced, and it is indeed a challenge to build up nursing and rehabilitation with increasing aging and a growing body weight of nursing, as we have discussed in the discussion. First, even though they are not always transparent in all areas, they can be included in the budget and see additional donations, significantly increasing, for nursing and rehabilitation services by 25%, starting in 2017/020. There certainly is a clear indication of the minister's effort, energy, and motivation in this regard. Secondly, the deal is over. This discussion can be traced back far back to the 2014 State Review Report, which speaks of the need to define the ministry well and to explain very carefully the requirements of quality and quantity. Therefore, I'd like to be happy to know that the negotiation has been completed, and thirdly, the cooperation of professional and diagnostic contracts is a key step forward. Fourth, I'd like to say, and it's happened to many in the discussion, and it's this new approach: We don't solve everything by building a new nursing home. V.E.G. Last night, a minister told us that we have to use a variety of resources and care for our homes, especially.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u32	Mr. President. Thank you for your fine discussion. As we look at the problem facing us in terms of nursing care for older citizens, it is clear that our current policy is bankrupt. Not only will it be traced to the current government. This has a somewhat longer history. It is said that the problem will not be solved just by building a new room. This may be true, but the fact is that in recent years we have not kept up with the aging of the people by building new compartments. In a decade, there is a 90 network increase in nurses. At the same time, the need may have increased by some 4,500 spaces. This is also reflected in the 400 - year - old waiting for a medical facility to begin over a year ago. We don't have new numbers. The government proclaims a big increase in the construction of new spaces, but it is simply not being built. Since they are nowhere in the horizon, this problem will only grow in the years to come. At the same time, we are at war with the host of the present nurses and are digging up their underlying grounds by pushing ever more and more toward their basic operation. It can be noted that most nursing homes last year were expelled. The bodies of these same operators have declared that a new agreement is inferior to the one in force. It is more difficult to run the basis of these spaces. How are we going to take more seniors into the nursing room at the same time that they're all fired with a tilt? If we were to run a medical space, we would be sending the older citizens of this country a message at the start of each year when they could expect to retire, whether it was about 70 or 75 years old. Of course, we do not build social security that way, and we cannot build up nursing services in this way. [[The president calls.]] These are the rights of people who have paid the taxes and responsibilities of their entire career here and are under obligation to care for them in their later years. Here, we simply have to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u33	A respectable president. We're talking nursing and residence. It's something special that a group of people proposed at the fall council for housing security in the local and nursing homes. There would be a need to support this, since it would be once and for all that it would be the State's duty to ensure that people would not wait indefinitely for a nurse. There is also a waiting period for so - called resting time, and we also know that there have been so - called failures in older cities, couples apart, and other individuals from one country to another. We are certainly not to act this way in modern society, and we need to solve this problem. At that time, a group of people has proposed a proposal for action on the care of the elderly. It tells itself of today's discussion that it is not possible to have an individual working for and keeping the interests of the older citizens of this country. It's only necessary to make sure of that. If this issue is accepted, the government, according to the nature of the matter, should abide by the law. Otherwise, we may be harmed by those who have been harmed by the alleged violations of the law. If the government were to establish a law on the security of living people in the nursing professions appointed by the people's members, they should be obliged to do this. But, of course, that won't be because, as I said, the main problem is Landsit. There are senior citizens in the most expensive facility, and it seems that this government is ready to throw away the dollar and try to save the money.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u34	V.E.G. President. Thank you so much for the discussion that has taken place here. I like it. Councilmen are very specific in their views and even offer solutions. Of course, I have more questions after this discussion than I had before. V.E.G. A minister told us that there was formal communication between Hospitals and other institutions. I would love to hear what communication it is and when it can be expected. Then there is the fact that if this nursing home had not been prepared directly, can we read it out of the fact that they had not just received a crown? Is that another patch? Why wasn't the enterprise's partnership with welfare services? Why was it chosen to negotiate directly with this nursing home? There's got to be some point where the plan is to do something else. Then I would like to mention that we are also confronted with the fact that rehab has been cut. In fact, promoting rehabilitation would make a big difference because research shows that people who enjoy rehabilitation will not even go to a nursing home as quickly as before. Finally, the bases of the Hospital Emergency Department are 210,000 cents. Due to CYP3A4 inhibition by CYP3A4 and CYP3A4. Plaque space in the comfort department and medical care department 150,000. Nurse homes are about 40,000 times. daily. I think that's all I have to say. One for the last time: how is this new space at its highest level? The minister spoke here? Do they come during this term or the next?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u35	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the discussion. There are some causes that are going to last. First, I want to say that during 2009,2018, there was actually a further 144 medical space in ten years. The budget now funded in financial programmes allows for 550,560 new spaces funded in financial planning. So this is a major challenge. I agree with it. Councilmen say, there are other options to be used. As a result, we have made the number of day - to - day decisions progressively. That's why we've strengthened care for home nursing. That is why we have financed a health - care reception. That is why we have emphasized policy in the affairs of people with brain failure and have strengthened their assignments. That's why there is a shape of rehabilitation policy, and that's why we've added rehabaries to the Sheep's Fund, etc. You see, these are not issues that will be resolved in one way. However, it is necessary to take care of the nursing room, and that is what we are doing. In terms of land hospital situation, over a year ago, 53 elderly persons were in emergency departments, 53 people with food to get into a nursing room but could not get there. One year later, they are 40 people, so they are taking steps - too small - being relieved of the Land Hospital. When we now gain 99 new space on Plain Road and begin health - care providers and other resources, more flexible day selections, etc., we take one step closer to the solution. [[The president calls.]] But I'd like to break it down. Councilmen to build their lawsuits on facts rather than to say it here in the Allegorium, it is not being done to solve the problem, for it is wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u36	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise the adjustment of various laws in the health - care minister's field of law due to the law of No. 90/2018, character protection and the processing of personal data. Work on the bill this is a continuation of work that began within the Ministry of Health for the last spring meeting to coordinate legislation with a health minister of a new personal protection law. In fact, it is a work that has been carried out in a number of legal matters in view of that code. During the last spring session, I proposed as health minister for a bill to legalize the health insurance laws relating to requested work as well. senators who served on a welfare committee know each other. Now I give you a bill to complete that passage. Under the health secretary's field, there are laws that involve important rights that must be handled by the personal information of individuals who are normally classified as sensitive personal information as defined by the identity protection laws. Such practices are often needed and often are needed so that the institution can perform its legal function. It is important that a clear code of laws is responsible for the processing of personal information, but it refers to any information about a personal or personal person. A person is considered personalally unique if he can be identified directly or indirectly, e.g. with a reference to a identity such as a name, social security number, or factors that identify it in physical, physiological, or genetic respects. This bill is aimed at ensuring that there is a clear legal warrant for the processing of personal information on the institutions that hear under the health care minister. A respectable president. The bill currently specified changes to biosynthesis laws and health information, No. 110/2000, where the approved approval for the processing of personal information is removed. Then there are new laws on surgeons and public health, No. 41/2007, where the surgeon's office is granted permission for the processing of personal information in order to perform its legitimate role. Motions of Disease Control, No. 19/1997, where certain sources are provided for the processing of personal information in order to meet their legal obligations in order to protect themselves from serious health problems. Then a change in organ resection is proposed, No. 16/1991, where specific sources are given access to the processing of personal data to ensure the quality and safety of organs intended for implantation. No. Is There a Change in Medicine, No. 93/1994, where the Agency is authorised for the processing of personal data in order to meet its legal role, and also proposed to change the medical legislation, No. 16/2001, where the Agency is authorised for the processing of personal information in order to fulfill its legal role. No. Is It Designed? No. 112/2008, where health care institutions are authorized to access a patient-specific prescribing database, and it is also proposed to change the health care professionals law, No. 40/2007, where medical institutions are given permission to process personal information in order to fulfill their duties under law. The TV was published in a government consultation and received reviews from the office of the surgeon and the Institute of Medicine. Materially, the comments received were taken into account. The Ministry also received information from the National Hospital on the need for a change in law due to the implementation of health institutions on sensitive personal information but primarily due to the role of Lands Hospital in the management and responsibility of paying expenses for the S-marked and authorised medicinal products. This subject was also taken into account in the preparation of the bill and is explained to them the aspects of the discussion in the bill. A respectable president. I have now explained the main subject of the bill and allow myself to suggest that it be at the end of the 1st. Pointed to why. The welfare committee and the 2nd Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u37	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize a legal change, a law on private treatment, and a law on the treatment of criminal rights. The bill suggests the establishment of a new court, a re-argument, which replaces the Re-Election Committee. The bill was previously submitted to the 148th legislature of 2017/2018 as well as in 149. It is now submitted by changes which include: in view of the comments given to the committee under the treatment of the case, the most important concern is the composition of the court in each case and the regulations for the cost of judicial matters. These changes will be further considered below. The establishment of Reconjuration would make it clear that the court is solely on the hands of judges in accordance with the order of 2k. The constitution as well as the finality of the Court's decision to ensure that such special hearings are finalized by the Supreme Court, National Court or District Court, and do not result in a review of the courts on the basis of Article 60. The constitution. The current command set up by law No. 15/2013 is the fault that the Commission is part of the European Commission in the sense of Icelandic law is empowered to resolve whether conditions are required to re-arrange cases that have been permanently solved by the courts so that they may interfere with the redemption of the judiciaries. It may be reasoned that this arrangement violates the threefold definition of the state's authority recommended in Article 2. The Constitution states that the president of Iceland and other governments will take the legal action and the judicial rights to the court. According to the 60th paragraph. The Constitution has a court order on the legitimate administrative decision and, on the basis of the constitution, the Supreme Court has dismissed a case decided by the Re-Electment Committee because it was not a legal requirement to grant its request, as per the judgment of February 25, 2016, by the June 15, 2016, issue of No. 628/2015 and May 21, 2019, respectively. 12/2018. Furthermore, the province of Reykjavík, with its decision since January 25, 2017, has reached clear conclusions that this arrangement violates 60th. and 1st. 70 C. The constitution. V.E.G. President. In this light I suggest that a new special court, a review court, replace with the Re-Electment Committee, be established. Must be a court of law in the sense of the Constitution in the same way as social and national court. It is suggested that a more significant part of the Court's judicial hearings coming from each of the three judges. It's two ways to win. At the same time, two of the five judges of the new court will be appointed to be called after the advertisement and come from rows other than judges, former judges, or court officials, and this is in line with the main objective of the adjustment made at the time of the Re-Electment Committee that non - judges come to the decision of judicial hearings. It is suggested that the application and command procedures for these two positions apply to the same rules as to the order of the judges in general as described in Article 12. Act of the courts. It is a judicial hearing to review applications and to provide a secretary with written and reasoned reviews and to forbid the appointment of a man whom the committee has considered most qualified among candidates unless a minister believes it is proper to propose a second proposal for the Council, etc. The work of the Committee complies with the rules set out on the basis of 1st. Section 12. Act of the courts. It is suggested that three judges participate in each case, i.e. The two judges appointed to be replaced by an advertisement and one judge from a series of officials after the decision of the president. This is a change from the bill submitted to the last legislature, where the president of the court planned that the complete composition of the Court be set in each case. It is also suggested that, at that level of judgment, the judge who judged the case requested to be not one of those involved in its treatment prior to the review of judgment. This arrangement guarantees that non - office judges will be involved in each case and, on the other hand, that a judge will not be involved in the release of a request for a resurgence of the judgment of a joint or of his fellow witnesses. The bill also suggests an evacuation of private reimbursement. According to local law, three conditions mentioned in Article 1 are required. 191st par. the handling of private matters all to be fulfilled in order to have a perfunctory case repeated today. Two of these conditions are unique, as it will be strongly likely that, on the other hand, the situation was not properly identified when the case was presented for treatment and the person asking for a recurrence will not be taught and new data will not be drawn to relevant conclusions. A third requirement also has to be in place is general where it refers to another case by granting permission, including the high stakes of the person's interests. It is suggested that, while the general conditions are also in place, one of the individual conditions being met are met for the reanimation of the situation, i.e. that an incident would recommend reimbursement and that the person's grand interests are at stake. This will suggest changes in clearly defined conditions, and thus the conditions of a-joints will include the events when they are strongly likely to be led by new data or data that the situation has not been properly introduced when the case was addressed to the treatment and to the person not to be taught. In contrast, the criteria for b-joints will include non-dating cases. According to the fact that new evidence or information has been provided other than the facts, and strong odds have been drawn that they will change the previous court decision's conclusions on important issues. Using new data or information in this sense, all the data or information that could lead to a different conclusion on important issues, including solutions from international courts such as the European Court of Human Rights and the EFTA Court. It is important, however, that while new data and information are available in this respect, it does not automatically lead to re-established issues but also meet the general requirement for an incident to be given by permission to repeat, including the high stakes of the person's interests. This should always be a careful assessment of whether re-uptake criteria are met and therefore not allowed unless such assessment is completed. Then it is suggested that a review of the Court's residence and, likewise, a significant change in the treatment of reimbursement is proposed. They take into account that this is a court, not a administrative committee. Isn't there any reason to trace them in detail, but I refer to the report and the bill itself? Finally, it is suggested that this bill suggests that the decision at the expense of a review procedure should be followed by a general rule. This is a change from previous primarys in which the cost of the matter would not be judged. Is this change suggested in the light of comments received by the General Education Committee in the treatment of the case. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u38	A respectable president. We're discussing a bill for a legal adjustment in the courts and a review. I am so curious to know, so I ask a minister why in the case of the judges in that court are in these matters. Is it not possible to obtain neutral parties, professors at the university, or anyone other than those who have come to the relevant issue? That would be quite normal, and I fear that in such matters as the Gerges'case, there had been a problem with them. The most serious thing I find to be in this case is 8 c. in which the word is correct: However, a return - to - date application will not be granted. What does this mean in English? It means that in this society, the worst in the world who can't afford lawyers, even though human rights are broken down. They don't have a chance to bring the case into court. What kind of democracy is that? How can a court be created that should be reserved for those who can afford to go before him? There's a lot of people out there who're breaking over and over forever. In this case, I speak specifically of insurance companies whose rights to damage are terribly broken. These people don't get what they want to do with their insurance companies, and in this bill, they don't get the desire to try to reinvent the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. Perhaps a candidate for these questions or opinions on the matter more than anything else. First of all, it must be explained that no judge at the time of the judgment that the case was passed will be involved in its decision in the Redemption itself. There are three judges, and there will always be two appointed and one other judge from another level of judgment. This is to be taken care that a judge does not take part in the release of a request for a resurgence on the adverse judgment of his fellow judge. This is very important, and it is making the adjustment that the greater part is from an appointed judge, and there is also one court judge who does not come from that same level of judgment. I believe I am answering comments from the committee at the earlier stage of this matter. In terms of the uninvestigated panthesis, this is the case with several times before reviewing the case. Of course, it can be debated how many times you should give a scruple in your case, but then again there is a chance to get a release if the case is repeated and to receive a positive answer later on in the reanimation process. You can get a previous application, and then if you want to repeat and you have a positive answer for a reimbursement, you can ask for a case when the case itself is repeated even if it is not done for a resession as such.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u40	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answers. It may be nice that the judges aren't at the same court order, but I say for myself that the other would have been better, that it had been completely cut off because we know it's too difficult for a judge to repeat a sentence. I just don't think it's acceptable to say, "Well, if that's the way it is. We do not know the extent of the case that is being asked for a reimbursement and the amount of data to be done. It goes on to say that a man who has enough money and is rich and easy to do this, but a person who may have had an accident, has not been in a job market for years, lives on disability, and tolls in his surroundings just doesn't have a chance to hire a lawyer. He doesn't have a chance to do one thing or anything about it. That person has been excluded. I'm not talking about if there was someone who was socializing or even inferior and unemployed. It says that these people can't afford to go before a revised court, so a certain group is being excluded, and I don't think it's fair. I say for my part that there should be a minimum of the exact same rules that already apply. They're very strict, and not too many people who get through it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u41	A respectable president. Hv. A global and educational committee can take this and ask a number of other questions to treat when the case goes into the second round. The case is a great legal step. It is developing a trimetric analysis of the state's authority, which explains much of the opportunities that can be made through the rest of the case. Of them, as a matter of course. A member of the body gives special consideration to the fact that in the case of criminal charges, the defence is made up of the state and the cost falls on it. Hv. A senator is likely to refer to such personal matters, and it is proper to consider it, but it also requires that the number of times needed to attend the same agreement. It was decided to go that way now, but I guess I do. The General and Education Committee will discuss this as well as any other subject that will come on her table. I hope the case goes there, and I appreciate the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u42	A respectable president. We're discussing a bill for a legal adjustment in the courts and a review. I have criticized that abduction is not an option to ask for a repeat. The reason I disagree with this trial is a court case that fell into the U.S. Supreme Court, a court of law that made Perlon protection a ruling that stated that personal protection had been grossly broken by taking sensitive medical information to a hospital. A person working outside the hospital, in a position in the hospital, was able to get what he wanted and use as he would, without telling the person what he was taking, without the idea that he was taking it. Not only that, but he simply produced false information from the evidence, and Perone Protection concluded that this was not a personal protection law. What did the Supreme Court do? He ignored it completely, in fact, just a brief answer: It's okay this time. Now you ask, " How many people have experienced this? ' I don't know. But at least I know that. ... aboutonething. If more people have been involved, how could they possibly achieve their rights and now go before the revision if they are in a position where they have not obtained anything from their own problems, have gained energy, and are unable to finance these matters themselves? We live in a state of justice, and all of us are supposed to be equal to the law. The Constitution is to protect us because discrimination is forbidden. Still, we are at full discriminating today. We have a lot of people out there who don't have a chance of seeking their rights in court because they can't afford it. It sucks, and it also tells us that we need in the context of setting up the filament issues. They must see to it and make sure once and for all, whether before normal courts or in review, that those most in need can simply seek their rights. I sincerely hope that a minister of justice will take the big case of reevaluation of the damage laws and the penalty laws, making sure that those who are entitled to the courts for compensation, and otherwise because they have done nothing other than an accident can seek their right and get the right and have the right to do so whether the economy permits or not. If the economy does not allow it, the government will see to it that they get abduction. We need to realize, too, that if there is a demand on such matters as damages, the insurance company will pay the price back if the case gets over. In most cases, this situation is won, so the State is in itself only to lend money temporarily so that the person can get his rights. It must be the State's job to make sure of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u43	A respectable president. I'm here recommending a hearing of an investment route investigation by the National Bank of Iceland. It represents members of three categories, and there are aggressors. My company members, reverends and the Conspiracy. We suggest that a committee of research be formed to review the method of this investment, of whom and whether it was abused. A special subject is whether she has been abused to escape taxes or to engage in money laundering. A respectable president. This investment route to Iceland has been discussed extensively. Then it may be said that the central core has gone in front of a group, but it contains a very detailed and detailed discussion of the factors that certainly involve major and serious questions about how this route was used during those years that involved it, which meant that individuals or proselytists should say, for something needed to have a foreign currency to take part in, could import money to Iceland, earn money to Iceland, and get some money from it worth money if they were used to invest in Iceland. Often, it was not such a big investment that individuals in the stocks or bonds of their own company could allow the increase of their worthiness to grow a little. What has been the main source of criticism is that the late bat has refused to inform any of these parties who brought money in at this time. Yet, the media have managed to find with the very hard work of the names of some of the people who used that way, what should we say, our good - for - nothing friends from the collapse who even left an only swelling farm or disappeared, all the way they disappeared from some of their savings. Let's face it, because it's moved, that's why we re-enacted, that's why I was encouraged at least To reassign the Senate arrangement we proposed for the 146th Council, news was found that among others who made use of the method of investment so called was just a Samherja society that has become quite famous these days. A brief evaluation of how this investment route was used by the Samherja, is given in the core of a recent discussion. It says by permission of the President: ▪ Among others who made good use of the investment route, a Samherja society was owned. These were the Esju Seafjod Society in Cyprus, who received a profit from Samherja's activities in Namibia. Esja Seafod lent another club, Samherja, Kaldbaki, about 2.4 billion dollars. In 2012, through an investment route to Iceland's Central Bank, U.S.A. In the afternoon on Tuesday, Kaledbak was reported to have included I'm still borrowing another Samherja, Kattanefi ehf., 300 million. K. to invest in Aarvak, a companion for the Tomorrow issue. That union was sold to Rameses II ehf, a member of the Eyþór Arnaldur, the odd sense of the Independence Party in Reykjavík, 2017, in 325 million. K.◯ So Samerji lent the Eyþór for his purchase, but he hasn't had to pay that loan back, and I understand that it's just been canceled. The NTSB could possibly cover this, and, as mentioned earlier, a few other favors of the crash would be due to the fact that there was still a strong population in this area that was blown up by giant gaps of illusions and plagiarisms and other financial attractions. Many have escaped with the money on Panama in an African country, even still using it at times through their Swiss credit cards, but they have also received the privilege of reassigning a considerable amount of money through the Bank of Iceland. Walking discounts, using them to buy the ruins from the houses they set on, so graphically speaking. I think it's important that this be settled, and that's why we have a research committee that has very broad sources, a research committee deposed by a board of administration and monitoring committee. This would be a research committee which would have been designed to account for the money being brought to the country by this investment route and where it came from, which individuals were registered for the money being brought to the country, or what societies and how their property was built - here I would like to add to their actual ownership - how the money was brought into the country protected, i.e. to what investments it was used and how it has affected the Icelandic economy, whether the state's funds have been made of taxes on this and how much the losses were, whether approved on the exports of an investment route might have been violated or abused by other means. We wish that the committee would arrive as soon as possible but no later than October 1, 2020. These are all important items, especially when we know that the Navy penetrator announced, e.g. no suspicious transfers to relevant parties, did not view it as their duty. That may be one of the reasons why we are well off on this gray list. In addition, it seemed that there was no particular restriction on the fact that people were being brought here with a poor money to buy possessions that they had even thrown out on sale prices. This is very important to me. This is a matter of great justice to me. This is why Piratars recommend this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u44	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A forebearer of her history for this important matter that I come up here to illustrate support. This case has a prehistoric view that there are many steps to take in the aftereffects of the crash, and, of course, everything is unambiguous. It was a very important operation, a number of times, a few years in which, in the time of the Norwegian welfare government, I think it is safe to say. From August 2019 onward, there is a very significant report from the Bank of Iceland on the bank's currency tenders, and it's all good as far as it goes. Of course, there will be no pleasure in the fact that a bank examines itself in this regard. Therefore, it is essential that, as suggested here, laws on study committees are set in order to provide an independent and objective investigation of this matter. Of course, there are very large questions involved, and some are listed in the Parliamentary arrangement. I could add more questions, to form an arrangement, and I especially mean terms, whether they had discrimination, especially those who did not reach the financial boundaries or something of that kind. But at the same time, Mr. President, I would like to mention in this discussion that it is no further than at the beginning of this week that an answer came from the secretary of finance and economics of the written inquiry of the Iceland State Department. I allowed myself to ask the highest. Minister how it would have been monitored that in this currency auction of Iceland the bank's terms on currency exchange, on the other hand, on the basis of the origin of funds with the indicators for the monitoring of financial resources, and on the other hand, the fact that investors were real assets so that trades were carried out for their own account of investments and not for other parties. That was the second question, i.e. of these two factors, monitoring that there were rules on money laundering, and then the second question was about the names of real owners. It was thus expressed in my inquiry to a written answer, whether a minister is eligible to publish the names of the real owners who received an offer and who enjoyed the votes offered by the Bank of Iceland in the requested currency exchange. I had the chance to ask the highest questions yesterday. The minister further into this answer, which, of course, is thanked for. I especially stopped in response to a minister who explained that, in a formal view, participation in these invitations was in the name of a domestic financial company - there was no direct communication between those who participated in these invitations, but there was a foreign financial enterprise involved in that relationship - and the legal situation therefore, as it was said in reply to the highest degree. Minister, to the financial firm, the Secret Bank's data supply was in business. It goes on to say that part - time financial companies have been involved in investing in the exports of the investment route to the Federal Bank and carried them. to make sure that the planned investment met conditions. This is where this obligation is placed on the financial firm. Then we read: "The financial institutions included the money industry. " to investigate investors, i.e. Businessmen, with regard to law No. 64/2006, on action against the money load and the funding of terrorism, as confirmed by the Federal Bank. This is, Mr. President, what I specifically stopped to do in this part of my answer, that financial companies have been put on a surveillance role in this regard. I mentioned it in a conversation I had with the highest. The minister of yesterday's unsubstantiated question period is not mentioned in this answer to the SEC, which brings my particular attention as well as that a financial firm is supposed to have a surveillance role. It should then be viewed in the context of the fact that this is a very important business to run at a total of hundreds of billions of things. That the editorials of the New World magazine, quoted here, and I actually referred to yesterday in a story dated December 26, 2000, on the second day of Christmas, it is estimated that the sum of the benefits of those who received an offer was high at 50 billion, perhaps nearly 49 billion. Hence, when it is expressed in the written reply of a minister that the surveillance was in this way, without anyone being intended for anything different, this obligation was placed on a financial company. The other point I stopped was what is said in response to a second question asking if a minister believes that the names of the real owners who received approved offers and enjoyed the way of the men who were offered by the Bank of Iceland in the requested currency exchange and that the benefits of 49 billion dollars were measured. Then it is stated that it is not permitted in the current legal sense to publish information asked on the basis of the strictness of the 35th chapter. track No. 36/2001, about Iceland's Penitentiary. The answer also shows that this was determined by the Commission's decision on information and referred to No. 74/2019, where it was concluded that a list of individual and legislator names, as well as the sum of each individual, moved to the country by the Sveiner's investment route, fell under the bank's regulations of confidentiality. I allowed myself to ask the highest. The minister's attitude was that the impossibility of the unproved point to law and decision was to reveal who really gained this benefit, who was to enjoy the lusters offered by the Navy. I think I'm right about a minister saying he doesn't think it's right. I'm gonna let myself tell you I'm going to join the highest level. A minister in the area where this is natural unbecoming and may even more strongly be said, that it would not be adequate and hardly equipped that this is from the public agency being transferred such funds to the party to run high 50 billion and that it is not informed who are enjoying these benefits and interests at the invitation of Seðla Bank of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u45	Mr. President. I recommend here for bill to correct a law on equal positions and equal rights of women and men, insurance laws and annual bills. In short, this is extremely simple. Here's the positive incentive that those companies who do well according to the definition of equality can apply a half- percent reduction in insurance costs. This would correspond, if all companies took advantage of this deduction potential, to make a government budget of insurance would fall by 8 billion, i.e. this is an 8 billion decrease in taxation for employment. Of course, this matter is primarily designed to improve the level of equality in the labour market, to strengthen the position of women in the labour market, because although Iceland is certainly in its first place yet when it comes to sexual equality, there is much to it that is missing about sexual equality in a labour market. The bill is also presented to answer the criticism that equality must always be burdensome for the job, as has been commonly mentioned, e.g. in discussions about the same salary and other factors. In fact, I do not agree with the criticism, on the contrary, that there is a general profit for companies in general, and it has been repeatedly shown that equality, the diversity of the enterprises strengthens their resources, improves the working force, and so on. But there is also a way to get closer, we can say, in a positive way, about equality by paying well - being companies. The conditions set in themselves are not very complicated. They are, first of all, that the company has an equal plan that all companies with more than 25 employees are obliged to have under current legislation. Second, if there are more than four managers, the proportion of directors per sex in the Commission is not greater than 60%. Third, if there are four or more of the same rulers, the percentage of other managers of each sex does not exceed 60%. Fourth, if there are four or more rulers, the percentage of government officials and vices in the management board for each sex is not higher than 60%. It actually just enters the current sex park laws in the administrations of enterprises and institutions. Fifth, therefore, that an enterprise has the same pay card, it is obliged to have such a witness in accordance with current law. It is specifically stated in the bill that companies with less than 25 employees usually on a yearly basis do not have to meet this last requirement in order to obtain a reduction in insurance, if other conditions of the law are met. There is no doubt that considering the interests of a government fund, this is a reasonable way to promote an even greater degree of equality in the labour market. Of course, despite many successes, we still enjoy considerable sexual pleasures. We also enjoy a substantial amount of clean pay from the sexes, women still have 15 to20% lower pay than men, including men. for less progress in the labour market due to the high sex standards of the enterprise's management. This cost eventually leads women to rely on a much greater degree on social security benefits or money from social security at retirement than men. By further strengthening equality in the labour market, this continuing amount of pay reduces the total pay of the sex, which includes a difference in the total pay of the vaccine. Because of the less or less advanced or the glass roofs we like to call them, the cost of social security in the future may be reduced. Although this may be a tax cut for the job life, a loss of income, if it might be said, to the income that flows to social security, it would be expected that the cost of social security could also be reduced. I think this is a very good thing, and I hope there is widespread support at the council. This is a positive incentive, a reduction in the taxation of the commercial life that companies self-employ themselves by setting clear, simple goals for equality in their daily activities. I expect this discussion to be followed by the bill. The Economic and Business Committee, who is looking forward to a discussion here later this spring, hopefully with the best support of members of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u46	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise the law on the national anthem of the Icelanders, No. 7/1983. The objective of the bill is to eliminate restrictions that are in the law on how to perform the national anthem. Not all Icelanders may be aware of this, but what is forbidden by national law to move it differently than in its original form. The story I've heard of the making of the law is that in the early 1980's, the director of Hrafn Gunnlaugsson was making a movie so irritated by a local prime minister that he banned all Icelanders, or offered a bill approved by the General of the Council, to deliver the country song differently than the original. Similarly, restrictions were placed on how to use it. Says 3rd. the law that it is not lawful to use the national anthem in any way for commercial or commercial purposes. The bill suggests 3,566. par. In fact, this law, which is lost by them, will be removed. It's the articles about these limitations. It is true to assume that there is no misunderstanding, deliberately or otherwise, that the national anthem of Iceland will remain under the law of ▪O, the god of our country, the song by the son of Matthías Jochumsson and the Song of Sveinbjörn Sveinbjörnsson. It also maintains 2kret. The same law states that the national anthem is the property of the Icelandic people and that the Ministry of the Presidency employs the right to publish it. I'm fine with that. In the 3rd. The law says that the national anthem can't be published or carried in a different form than the original and must not be used in any way for commercial or commercial purposes. Now I do not personally believe that this law will pass the current constitution, at least a very low probability. In fact, I cannot be surprised at how the Supreme Court interprets the Constitution's declarations on the basis of the various matters that have come to court so far, especially on so - called hate propaganda and prejudice. But I still believe that if these restrictions were carried out seriously in Iceland, courts would not interpret these laws in accordance with the current principles of the Constitution on freedom of expression. At that time, however, the law on freedom of expression was different from that of today, that was about the freedom of printing, which was interpreted as being queer, so that it undoubtedly resisted the declaration of the Constitution that was in force when these laws were passed. This has been discussed and has been a bit misunderstanding that this suggests that the national anthem will not become the national anthem or that its respect is to be reduced. Neither is true. The national anthem continues to follow the same song and song with the same title. He is still in Icelandic estate, and the Ministry of Presidency continues to govern his version. Then there has been no debate that the national singing is somehow to be permitted. First of all, I just have to remind you what freedom of expression means. Freedom of speech does not mean that you have any kind of permission to say things that are not irritating to anyone. This includes special protection from the expression that irritates others and that others view as unsatisfactory, unspoken, and unprovable. Freedom of speech does not mean anything if it is not the right to say things that others hate to say. But beyond that, I simply find nothing in these current laws that in any way protect the respect of the national anthem. Delivering the national song in a different way than the original is not demeaning the national anthem. There is no disrespectful treatment of the national anthem. Also, using the national anthem in some way for commercial or commercial purposes is not disrespectful to the national anthem and in no way demeaning it. There I think there's just some old Soviet thought behind it, that anything that's commercial or commercial is somehow mean or dirty. And so it simply isn't, Mr. Honorable President. There are national powers that are far more important for using their national symbols, such as flags or songs, in everyday life. Do more frequently than we do, all citizens of the country know and regularly sing the national song for various reasons, e.g. in schools and such, and both are used for commercial or commercial purposes. These national symbols are considered to be a sign of respect, not a disgrace to use the national anthem or the flag to glorify something else. But for some reason, it's an old place and, in my opinion, a little bit of a Soviet song in the Icelandic community that trade and advertising are somehow derived from evil. I simply disagree. Moreover, it is ironic to have forbidden the use of the national anthem as it seems to that same people to use the national anthem. I don't know exactly how this was originally thought or exactly what was meant by the national anthem being the property of the people except that it would mean that this same nation had the right to sing this national song as they thought it was and, in fact, just any citizen. At least it's very strange that I'm being told as citizens of this country that I have this national anthem, but I can't do anything about it. This is the only thing that I know in the law that I'm specifically forbidden to move in any way different from the original. There's a strange right of possession going on, I think. As I mentioned earlier, I don't believe that the regulations proposed here for the release of the Constitution will be passed out by the Constitution's declaration of freedom of speech. However, there is only four reasons to remove them from the law, and they are mentioned in a report. First, citizens of the country have the right to read the laws of the land without being threatened with full threat of guilt and imprisonment. When the city reads land laws, it should be able to assume that this means what it says. We are to remove the legislation that gives misleading or false information about the true rights of the land. Second, it is not possible to guarantee in advance that courts, even the Most Holy Court, will reach the right conclusion to the expression of freedom of speech based on history so far. Although the person standing here is absolutely certain that this will not pass the constitution, there are sometimes the Supreme Court, as the experience shows, not exactly the same line as the person here on freedom of expression, as is the case in general of Iceland. Third, it must also be assumed that the public will view national law as being in general. When the city reads something in the law, he expects it to be in effect. It should not be necessary to believe that the value there is. Fourth, perhaps most important, the existence of this prohibition has a proper effect on individuals before going to court. In fact, a recent example led to the idea that the person standing here started to graft together this bill. During the summer of 2018, a special consideration of the State Radio Act was possible on the law. There is a measure of the right effect that the TV had on them. There was a press report on this that has likely given the public the idea that they were forbidden to perform the national song as they desired. Being held to a special position on the part of the authorities is burdensome, even if after some legal action passed through courts and possibly all the way up to the Supreme Court, you would eventually be declared righteous by the terrible offense of singing the national song differently than anyone would, by some prime minister in 1982 or in 1983 or by what it was. For this reason, the person standing here and the carriers of the bill feel totally undefeated that punishment is a violation of the law against the national anthem. I'm not gonna have this any further, more dignified president. I think it's a simple matter. I hope the more liberal tribe of Independence now breaks off its showy and starts supporting Porta's good freedom issues instead of sounding that we're all the left men so so called. But it's not my job to tell the Independence Party what to do. To say that, I want this matter to go to the 2nd. ... andwhat. General and Education Committee. Finally, I'd like to list the transporters. They're what they are. Councilmen Inst. Hrafn Gunnarsson Leví of Gunnarsson, Björn, Halldóra Mogensen, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Smári Mccarthy, Thorhild Ævarsdóttir Ahvarsdótir, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, and Valdimarsson Sturdímsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u47	A respectable president. Freedom is good. It is good to be free in a free country and to do things that are not forbidden. It is very bad that things are forbidden that should not be forbidden. At least I feel that way because I'm in Piranca and I and Pirantar believe in freedom. Speaking of freedom, I hereby recommend a bill to correct the conversion of alcohol law. In particular, in current alcohol laws, it is forbidden to build alcohol for personal consumption at home. It's another matter of such freedom that I think more than a lot of people in society are just not aware of why I'm following it. Again, the Independence Party is missing this matter of freedom, unfortunately, but I hope that it will begin to practice what it always preachs about individual freedoms instead of just groping over the fact that everyone else is so left-minded. Here's a suggestion that people be allowed to build their homes by fermenting for personal consumption. The first edition of the bill suggested that all preparations be made, regardless of the method. But after reviews and treatments. The General and Education Committee for the Last Parliament is hereby requested to allow continued consumption of alcohol for personal consumption by nebulisation. This is because, according to one authority who knows well, it is dangerous to do so unless there is a particularly good and a great knowledge of that process. But fermentation, e.g. used to make beer - people should be able to do so without harming themselves or others in the home. In recent years, I may claim, there has been an explosion in a number of brands of Icelandic beer, so that tourists are becoming curious about Icelandic beer culture and beer production what is called the English ◯microbrewery- - I do not remember the word at the moment, a respectable president. This is ironic, though, because when such beer is introduced, it is reasonable to assume that those who made the beer in the original form, before they became business and obtained permission and so on, were breaking the alcohol law by schemed at home. That's how people get experience making beer, these lots of different species that exist in Iceland. Or you might assume that in the course of time, there was some sort of beer contest or beer show or something like that. There enthusiasts of beer brewing met, and they were on the air on the news of what was going on there. The comparison of different homemade beer types was here. The chairman of this group was there in an interview and was asked by a reporter if it wasn't forbidden. It seemed to catch the Chairman off guard, and he said: "Yes, it is probably hard to deal with, and it has to be fixed. I agree with that fine Chairman. But it also emphasizes that it is not that in Iceland the public is calling for this ban to be carried out. It's not like that. This same organization, Fingund, has sent in a review to the General for a bill to allow the liquor sales of privates. They've met a General and Education Committee to introduce their views. It's a group that's officially all about designing their home. It's all about doing a six-year prison punishment. I'm quite aware that there's no community's expectations, and certainly not this group, that they're being carried out by the law. Such circumstances pose a high risk for a group involved in a course that is strictly forbidden but is, in fact, authorized by the authorities and the community. These individuals will always be bad if the authorities get in so much a bad mood and decide to enforce that law. They've been breaking the law for years and have a six - year term in prison if the only thing happens is that a police officer somewhere would want to enforce this law. These individuals have a high standard of justice. These are the same individuals who have contributed to the interest of tourists in growing beer culture in Iceland and the expertise of various Icelandic agencies in producing beer. So it's not just that I personally feel that it's important that people build in their homes, it's also about the security of the citizens who engage in unprovoked behavior. I think I've gone over it in all the basics, and again I'm calling that the politicians here who are gasping the highest in campaign freedom support this and the rest of Porta's freedoms. In fact, this case is also proposed by non - members of Congress, including those in the synagogue at the restoration and the Stockholm people. Those who carry this bill are why. Councilmen Inst. Hrafn Gunnarsson son of Gunns, Björn Leví's Gunnarsson, Halldóra Mogensen, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Smári Mccarthy, Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdótir, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Þorsteinn Coupteleur Víglundsson Wherson and Sæland Góland. I'd like to ask a president if there's anything in the council that would be the best place to send the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u48	Here's a suggestion for the bill to go to the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u49	That's great, I'm on it. Then I suggest the bill runs through 2nd. ... andtowhat. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u50	A respectable president. Yeah, I think there's a bill that's out there very interesting and I don't doubt that I'll support it. In fact, I almost view such a thing as some sort of thing in a law book. We know they sell tools and tools for homekeeping, and here we are, like a whale. A senator came on, an organization that goes into that. But for some strange reason, in my opinion, it is still forbidden by the law. I'd love to hear it. A senator is involved in this matter, and he certainly hopes that there will be a course. In the talk on this excellent bill and other matters, and even in a speech given under the council, there was a sharp call. A senator by liberal independents and independents who are inclined to speak for freedom, and this certainly does the Independence Party. In fact, I notice that this previously well-designed bill has been with those from the Independence Party. Hv. paritaprevir Will Árnason has been on this bill at some point, and he's also at the highest level. The Minister of Justice of Áslaug Sigurbjörnsdóttir Sigurbjörn so that I imagine it is a very useful matter for this Ministry. Or else I'd like to say, proper president, that there are often very good cases from all sides of the statesmen. However, as a senator, I have decided not to sign every case as an importer. It's to form, a respectable president, my personal rule that I generally don't respond to e - mails that sometimes pile over senators who want to transfer. But, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. Senators contact me personally and desire to transfer into certain matters, and I happily think about them and shape my view of them. I think it's very important that it is stated here that someone's not involved in a case has nothing to do with whether he supports it or if it's good or not in his mind. I don't think it would be a good idea if there were a lot of cases presented here with more than 50 transporters. Of course, the issues discussed here can be classified as a matter of freedom but perhaps as much as a certain legal arrangement. I support my whole mind on what is suggested here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u51	A respectable president. I recommend here a bill to correct the conversion of the Christian Fund, which is suggested in Article 5. The law will pass away. In the 5th. says, with permission of the president: It is mandatory to set up free property under churches and to keep them free from the street tax. Now a priest is obliged to have a shop or a shopaholic and is obliged to set up a free property under his apartment house in case of an authorized priest's residence. It is obvious that this law was set at that time in view of the fact that in this country it is a so - called national church, something I sometimes call the State Church, depending on whether you call it your personal name or what it is in nature that is State rather than national. This legislation has been interpreted as such by some rural communities, e.g. Reykjavíkurburg, that they are really obliged to provide free property to all the religious and biological institutions approved by the State of State. Although these decisions have not been based directly on 65rd. the Constitution of Social Affairs regardless of religious beliefs, including However, it is the spirit that at least Reykjavíkurburg has wanted to go in. A few years ago, Muslim religion had such a property, and knowingly, it was up to me to build a mosque. From that time on, a lot of discussions came up, very unfortunate for the Polish in Iceland, the same discussion as has, unfortunately, recently occurred in Europe. It's about that there are individuals in this society and even politicians who want to directly differ from people on the basis of religious beliefs. Today's Icelandic politician has proposed to be seriously and officially that this group, Muslim, will be investigated specifically just for being Muslim. That, a respectable president, I consider a very unfortunate speech to be the least of it, in fact, in a free and democratic society. Despite 65rd. Unfortunately, the Constitution on equality for the law remains, with 62rd par. The Constitution of the State Church, where it is called a national church. This is a contradiction made from time to time by court, whether to take first priority over the other. Is the law to be valid for all, regardless of religion, or is it permitted to discriminate its citizens on the basis of religious convictions or, in fact, legal matters from a religious registration? The courts have, in all principle, allowed me to say, took the position that it is permitted to discriminate on the basis of religion when it comes to the National Church on the basis of this constitution, 62. G., one of the reasons why it is important to remove this article completely, regardless of each one's beliefs. It is unfortunate that in the law there is a law that threatens in my opinion simply a universal rule speaking of which religious group we are going to differ, which religious group should have special privileges above others, either in the force of the importance of that religion or simply a number of those who are more common logical in Iceland, there are simply so many in the National Church that it justifies the discrimination or the privileges it has, and as a result, those who favor its religious teachings entirely that they were born of course. Then we will discuss how we should differ from other groups. In recent years it has been directed against the Muslims. In the past, it was highly directed against Jews, and it has been directed against other groups as well. But there is only one acceptable way, a respectable president, and it is that all citizens of the country and of the world are equal in law, regardless of religious convictions, religious beliefs, and church registration. That's the only acceptable way. That's all there is to consider. There are two ways to respond when it comes to recovery. law on Christianity, which obligates rural communities to contribute free weights to the churches of the National Church, according to the origin of the law. Another is to change the law so as to make it clear that rural society should provide free land to all religious and biological organizations, whether Muslim or Jew, and, in fact, atheists. There's one way. That would be 65rd. The constitution was fulfilled both in spirit and in practice. Not only do I mention it because of law, but also because if we believe in equality, we must practice it even if we find some legal means to reach that conclusion. The other way is by removing this obligation. If we take the lead in evaluating two benefits, we need to ask: "Why on earth are rural societies to contribute to religious and biological systems? I don't know any good reasons for that. No doubt there was evidence at one time when religious convictions in Iceland were less and the church served a different role in the community than it is now. But today I don't know why religion and principles should get free property, rather than any other member of the Union, political organizations. Why is it not necessary for rural society to provide property for political parties or for changing diets, for those who fight for climate change or for what? All these questions lead me to the conclusion that it is the most reasonable, the simplest, and the perfunctory thing to simply eliminate these obligations and make them the same requirement for belief and principles as we make to most other partners that these weights need only to be found out on their own. That seems quite fair to me. I think it's demeaning. If I'm gonna buy a place to live, I need to figure it out for myself, I can't get it out. In fact, there are more serious reasons for providing shelter for individuals, if needed. There is, anyway, a matter of survival in part, which is certainly not the case here. Maybe it was that way sometime, I don't know, but now it's 2020 and 5. is in the best position to fall short and unnecessary. I'm not going to keep it any further. Well, the President is kind of going to have to help me, because I don't know exactly which committee is at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u52	It's a universal and educational committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u53	Very good. It's the best committee in my opinion. Then I suggest that the bill go through 2nd. and the Board of Education and Public Affairs. The network members of the bill are the one that stands here, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son, and why. Senators Ben Leví Gunnarsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Halldóra Mogensen, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Þorgerður K. Gunnarsdóttir, Smári Víglundsson, Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Ævarsdótir, Andrés Ingi Jónsson, and Sæland Þorsteinn. Some may have noticed that much of the Shining Art of Transport is made up of members of the Pirata and Lube. It should be noted, then, that in view of the fact that the restoration had in mind and had begun preparing a bill just ahead of us, we consider these two groups to be putting the bill together.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u54	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator of history. As noted in his case, this bill is going out on the 5th floor. in the 1970 Christian Fund, which says that local trade and purchase companies are obliged to contribute free weights under churches and to keep them safe from the street. It is very important in this discussion to recognize the appearance of this law, why it was set in its time. In 1907 the State was given oversight of the Church, which had a total of 25%. During those years, or around 1970 when the law is approved, the discussion of church land was started and actually continued until 1997 with various reportings, committees, and so on. In 1997, the government receives the church's land for possession on a remuneration form for a certain number of priests and employees, and it was all signed in a so - called church meeting that we know, and it actually received a little discussion at the council for Christmas in connection with an additional meeting that the State made with the church in September the last year at the church meeting. In 1970, when the Christian Fund law was passed, many rural communities stood on the world and, in view of the normal and floundering fact, gave the church free of charge. This is an important historical point that should be made clear in this discussion, why the arrangement was set in its own time. This underscores my judgment that the regulations apply only to the State church. Now we know that the Council of the City of Reykjavík agreed in September 2013 to take part in the Southland Railway area here in the city of the Muslim community in Iceland. Hv. A senator and executive for this bill came on only earlier in his case. That subject received a considerable discussion in the community and was adopted by representatives of the Best Party, the United States of America, and the left green. It is true that on my part the human rights of people and, for example, those who are. Islam is permitted to build a house for its religious beliefs. However, it has been debated whether the code on the Christian Fund should be given to rural areas, for example, the Moriscos, or temples. I don't think so, nor do I refer to the interpretation of the law according to the words, and the words which I had in the beginning. The churches are the houses of Christians, and the houses of worship of Muslims are known as Moriscos. Hence, the law does not say that rural areas are obliged to be donated to show, moan, or temples, with no historical rights to the earth behind them. You should keep that in mind in this regard. No doubt, it involves injustice. I don't think so. There is further evidence to support the 5th stipulation. the law on the treasure of Christianity applies only to the churches of the National Church. The Christian Fund was designed to deal specifically with the organization of the National Church, also referring specifically to the judicial places of the priesthood. In this particular example of the mobilization of the city council it is clear that there is an equal basis for the position and role of the National Church and the status and the role of other religious and biological organizations. From my perspective, it is a special position to equalize the position and roles of the National Church and the status and the role of other religious and biological institutions. There are 270 member churches, and the frequency of observance depends on the number of parishioners, but everywhere it is to be regularly held. About every year, it's about 8,000 church activities. Recently, after the tragic accident at Hafnarfjörður, the Hafnarfjörður was a community scene. There was a prayer session where priests in the Hafnarfjörður, the Free Church, and the National Church welcomed people and brought together the time and hundreds of others. Of course, all of us have our minds with young people and their families and friends. This tragedy reveals not only the important position the Church has in our society but also the duties it places in the community. She's a open hug, as it were, an open platform in joy and grief. This is not a matter of religion, religious affiliation, attitude, or outlook on life. It is the site of human beings if we can say as well as the one that unites us as humans. It must be important to keep this in mind when it comes to community planning and whether the church is expected in that overall picture. On the other hand, church buildings have become many, many of which have become widely available. A new church building is unlikely to come up in rural areas to some degree. Mr. President. The last words of this bill surprise me. Before I get to that particular point, I'd like to mention one thing in that relationship. At the very end, it says that it is safe to say that the Lawgiver's purpose was never to bring such social reversals when the law was first set into law. I simply think that it was with the city council that I traced in a speech that this social reversal began. He did not start with this law. The widespread interpretation of the city council has led them to the present, as it were. In his speech, a member of the body was giving an account in the conclusion of the report with the bill. But what amazed me, Mr. President, in the final words is what says: ▪ Religion and philosophy are inherently controversial and may be short in a hateful speech that is at the point of an open and enlightened discussion. It's in my opinion, Mr. President, some strange insult and apparently for some short-term thrill. All members of this group can be put into this sentence instead of their religious and principles. For example, the phrase might look like this: A political organization is in its nature, and short can be in a hateful debate that is at the point of an open and enlightened discussion. Even it is possible to say: The Pirate Society is in nature controversial, and short can be in a hateful debate that is at the point of open and enlightened discussion, if one wants to go there and get some headline in that subject. Mr. President. I believe this proposal is based on misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u55	A respectable president. I don't even need a minute, it's a short question. At the same time that the state pays forever for the possession of the church council, we rurals demand to give the Church back the ground. So I wanted to think up a little bit. A senator why in the world we should be giving the Church Earth when we are paying indefinitely for having been buried from the church.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u56	President. I have nothing to add from earlier in my speech. I traced this. This is based on historical grounds when this law is passed on in 1970 and the Christian Fund is accepted. As I told you earlier, many rural communities, park town, Acdine, Citynes, and others were found at church level, and at that time they were buried under the oversight of the State. The Kingdom did not then belong to those earths. It comes with the 1997 church meeting. It was only natural during that discussion that was then all of this, and in reality, it was suggested that the church would receive weights that would be penniless and free of offenses. This is historic. Hv. In his speech, this bill was addressed by a senator and a transporter who had not felt the evidence of this law at the time. That's the point, and I don't really have anything to say about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u57	A respectable president. Never before did they make bad decisions? Or is it the basis for decisions that were once taken breeding? Just because society changes and develops, is there not a valid argument that once was valid? On the basis of reason. In 1997, then, when the church meeting was in place and its property was fully restored to the State, should a senator have simply not have stopped? That's why I asked why in the world we should now, while we're paying indefinitely for having got all these churches, to give them back.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u58	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. He asks if it wasn't natural that it had been over, i.e. to provide grounds for church buildings with the 1997 church meeting. In fact, a senator has a point, I'll totally agree. Now there are very few new buildings, church buildings, today that are being provided free of charge. First of all, this issue has been about other religions and principles, as we know, and the discussion that has been followed. Some societies, as mentioned earlier, have interpreted the directive so that they should provide free land to other religious and biological institutions. I think that could be a major misunderstanding, that's what they've been interpreting, that's what my rural society's been interpreting all too far beyond my judgment. [[The president calls.]] In particular, that's what it's all about. A senator asked about, then I can agree that he has such a decision, perhaps it should have fallen down in 1997. But I don't think that's the main thing in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. I don't even know if I need that long. I have requested to address the following questions and will then report my position on this bill and perhaps in general on the punitive costs. But I singled out the senator's speech, which I was very sorry about. A senator did not believe that new churches would rise. I must admit that I felt sorry to hear it. A senator speaks in this way because I think that there is a great need for churches and other religious buildings. I think faith, a higher power, is of great importance to many people, whether they belong to the State church, as it is now defined, or to other religious groups. I might especially want to bring this up because I live in a rural society that has grown dramatically in recent years. My community, Mosfellstown, has two well - versed churches today, a truly beautiful and fine building but not sufficiently large enough to accommodate the congregation in Mosfellstown. It is one of my main wishes that soon the church in the downtown Mosfellstown will rise, where land has been planned for the fine church. I wanted to hear what I was doing. A senator, because I know that he is very interested in this group of languages, will not join me in fighting for the imminent rise of a new and elegant church in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u60	Mr. President. Thank you. The answer to that question, it's a pleasure. I agree that I hope that more churches will be built, especially where they are needed, where population growth has increased. My words must not be understood that I said that other churches would not rise. I'm not pointing it out at all. I am pointing out that in a number of my rural communities, there is no more churches of the National Church are raised, simply because the financial situation is difficult for many of these churches, and they have served their place well and still do so. But it is certainly necessary in large parishes, I agree, and it is also very important to be on legal regulations like this, to give the congregations the opportunity to build their churches within the budget that will allow, and it really matters, that the church will release them from paying land and street expenses, etc. In this respect, I believe that this law remains with the people. Other than that, I agree with what. Senator, and I'm on the team with you. A senator speaks of it, and speaks of the rise of more churches. As a Christian nation, we have been for over 1,000 years, and of course we should not be shy about saying it and supporting Christian values and the church in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u61	A respectable president. I can well agree that we are based on Christian values. It's been tradition, and I think it's important to hold onto it. At the same time, though, we maintain our freedom of worship and expand in this regard. That's why I think we have to look at an open mind so that people have different beliefs, and I feel that the public should do everything in their power to make it possible for people to exercise their faith. But perhaps I'll consider it better in a talk afterward. The law on how to destroy and what to do involves something called free - in fact, there is nothing free of charge in this world. I think that's where we're in a ditch. I don't know whether this law, as it is set in these statutes, should be there this day. But it doesn't change that I hope that here I continue to build houses to practice religion in that I think it's very important to communities.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u62	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. I just want to come here because, of course, I'm a follower of those who do not share their beliefs and houses of worship. It's only human rights to do so. This is simply a matter of interpretation of the regulations we address here, and transporters suggest a collapse, i.e. Section 5. a law on the Christian Fund. I believe that the law was interpreted too widely and on the historical grounds that the church, as I mentioned earlier, belonged to the earth in its time, and therefore this law was set in motion when this discussion is carried out with the churches - and they were in the administration of the State, I insist that it was not owned by the State at the time of this law. In my opinion, other religious and biological institutions, as assessed by my opinion, are not valid according to this requirement.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u63	A respectable president. Where do you start? We can talk about it for a long time, and we'll probably talk about it. But I'm glad to have two minutes instead of one, although it may be a slight discrepancy between individual senators. Hv. A senator has mentioned several times, both in speech and in reply, historically on the basis of this arrangement. I think that's a very interesting argument. I find them interesting because I feel that they are nowhere else to go, not in any other context. There are historical reasons why men alone rule the country, and no women ever govern the country. There are very rich historical reasons for this. But they're bad. So, what do we do? Yes, we'll change them. There was a historical basis for a religion of its time, and Christianity was adopted in a way that we hopefully all know about what it was like. There are some historical reasons for giving special support to superstition, as well as, in my opinion, only a little more near to protecting something that really needs to be protected in order to have a head, such as the Icelandic language or the like. There's a historical basis for this Iceland's history over the centuries, for over 1,000 years, almost entirely lived with so-called white people. That doesn't mean we have to make sure it's always like that, does it? The historical basis for that. A senator goes out there, from 1907 to earlier, based on the arrangement that was set then, because it rests on the attitudes and standards of those times, and therefore it meets with a legal code today, as a legitimate arrangement. There, I disagree. Senator. Historical grounds, historical agreements do not mean that they are righteous, does not mean that they are good, even does not mean that they are law abiding. There was a Catholic church here some time, and then there was a Lutheran church. There were some historical reasons why there is a Catholic State or national church or what people want to call it. But we changed it. [[The president calls.]] Probably counts. A senator it has been for the better. What interests me is that. A senator seems to defend a historic ground on the sole basis that he himself is a member of the National Church. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Not because he views this arrangement as a reasonable arrangement in its nature, without regard to his own religious convictions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. There was a bit of a strange approach. A senator told me that I was coming to the Generals' public speaking of the continuation of this law because I am part of this Christian arrangement. There is a senator. I don't quite understand the language. I have referred to what was done when this law is set in its own time and direction. A senator must look to that. In fact, he said in his speech that he had found no evidence as to why this law was set in its own time. Now I've informed him about it. At that time, the church owns these lands, it owns them. The earth is under the oversight of the State. Since 1997, the government has the land. Hence, it can be said here that when the law was given, it was not unusual. It is not surprising that the church that had then brought the state funds to the oversight of the soils wishes to get land under a church in the local community. It's just perfectly normal. If I had stood there on behalf of the church, I would have thought it perfectly normal. That's what I have to say. There must be a senator who has to look into that aspect of the matter. We can then debate whether this law was to fall down at the entrance of the church meeting, such as it was due to be. paritaprevir Björn Leví spoke of it before, that may well be. But I think it is very important for you to see the reasons for the arrangement. It applies to the State Church, and it is far too extensive and not legitimate interpretations in my opinion to say that it is a requirement for other religions and institutions of life. I've made that clear, and I'm sure I will.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u65	A respectable president. I don't think this is a reason for this arrangement as a matter. A senator mentioned. The fact that there have been some conditions in 1907 that have still been present in 1970 does not mean that the law is legitimate, on the same grounds that were present more than 100 years ago, now that it has established a church meeting and the State and Church have changed, basically for the better, though we still fight for this constitution that I am so interested in getting rid of as well. A senator knows. I wonder why. A senator franced that I would accept religious convictions. The senator's involvement in the discussion of how he would like to have the arrangement because I believe it is impossible for someone who views the matter materially without regard to religious convictions to feel. Senator. I believe in a particular philosophy, and I'm in a partner, and I've been in the management of a lifestyle society, and my wife is the chairman of that society. I would never represent a legal arrangement that would give special privileges or maintain privileges for that society. [[The president calls.]] I'm against it, actually, for example. This monstrosity, because I distinguish between my own religious and biological convictions and my role as lawgiver. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u66	Mr. President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator had no particular request in the second answer, these were more of his thoughts. But I don't. Senator on 62 st. The Constitution for the State's support and protection of the State Church It's in the constitution and what. A senator has to accept that. [[Up front.]] It is not unusual for me to come up here as a member of the body and to describe the support of that law and thus the law on the Christian Fund. I have nothing to add to the fact that this proposal is based on misunderstanding and has traced it into my case. It's probably a matter of conversation rather with him. A senator if he wishes to. But I think I've only reasoned with myself. That's how the law has come at its time, and nothing unusual about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u67	A respectable president. Yes, I find this bill very interesting. Surely, I feel that there is good reason to give much discussion about the importance of the church, the importance of higher power, or religious freedom, as we seem inclined to do when matters related to the church are discussed. We took a long discussion about this in connection with the church meeting here before Christmas, and I even suggested that we take up a special discussion about the Church and its values. Again and again, I want to suggest it, so especially to those who are very interested in it. However, the main thing I would like to point to a particular discrepancy that I feel is in my case when it comes to the punitive tax laws. You see, at one point in the first place, the price was considered a price, i.e. that this should be due to the costs of parking for the person. It was then changed by the cross-cutting law, which I think is from 2006, which was defined as a tax, in fact, to be collected and used by rural communities in the maintenance and building of the holes. These excellent laws also state when rural management is permitted to reduce or cancel the cost of street building, and the law is very specific. Apart from the fact that there may be repairs within a square meter, a common garage, or something else, this may apply to specific situations, e.g. when, in the context of a small application, and I know that rural areas in the country have made good use of it to some extent, or because of the demand for rent houses and social housing. There are very rigid rules around it. Nowhere in this law, I can see any authority available to the local community to indulge in the tax of punitive tax unless only under this particular recommendation. The reason I mention this is because I know a pretty good deal about such a case from my community. There was a dispute between the State and the local community over preschool street expenses. In previous high school laws, it was believed that the country society should set out for a high school without charge, but in 2015, when these lawsuits were started, the lawgiver, who was sitting here, decided to change the wording so that it would certainly be a failure to pay. Then the lawyers felt that they were paying it, that it was quite clear that this was not to be collected. At the same time that the state refused to pay pedestrian fees for a high school co-worker of state and rural society, the same community built a nursing home that falls under the same definition, the cooperation of rural society and the state, which was calculated as cross-cutting fees. There is reason to assume that of all the buildings established by rural society, schools, and so on, the cost of street building is calculated. Of course, it goes into one pocket and out of the other, but it is the nature of the pavilion tax that it should be calculated into the entire building cost. I'm surprised, then, that at the same time as we have the clearness of the street tax paying, we're also in high school law and in the law of Christian funds to talk about something that's called making free property, and it's not just that rural communities are allowed to be allowed, but it's related to them according to that law. It's obviously an old law. So I think there's good reason for all this discussion to be considered in the big context. I admit, a respectable president, that it may not be a planned interpretation, but while I was preparing for the talk and going through these songs, I wondered if it would be more reasonable to believe that in the law of street building fees, it would be granted special permission to local governments to reduce or lower the charges and determine churches underneath, or some form of religious house. Consider, for example, the rescue teams who have been very busy during the past few weeks as a result of their amazingly important work. Yes, they would like to have a place to live. I can't understand these laws any other than to be understood by rural society e.g. Not allowed to discount or cancel punitive charges for such buildings. I may somehow want to put the rescue crews and churches under the same hat as important unity in our society, and then I wonder if it's not normal for the rural communities to be completely down or downed. I reiterate that I'm talking about a warrant for my communities because, of course, the rural communities are supposed to be independent. That is why I find it difficult to understand that the lawgiver has a legal code that specifically states that this is a tax and must not differ in tax matters, and there are only a few exceptional cases specified in the law specifically, and on the other hand, there are laws that require free taxes and pay. I'm going to point it out to you. The General and Education Committee to discuss this matter. I know they're further entangled in the case, because I think the punitive fees are under way. Environmental and Transport Committee. But it's sometimes like this when we talk about these guys. This is at least what I want to share with you in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u68	Mr. President. I won't overexpensively extend this discussion, but it seems to be quite a bit of a trade for some people. Councilmen to cover in a way that is done here by force of reason. Transporters, especially those of Pirata. I assume this isn't the last time we've discussed these matters. As we have considered, we recently covered them thoroughly. I have to say, some things surprise you. I'm surprised to find out who are the carriers of this bill. It's no surprise. Pirata's members are there, and not at all who's a 1st transporter, but I notice that there's a whole council revered, and there's no one, and there's half the group of Falcons that you wouldn't have expected to go on like this. This has been attributed to an inexpensive and natural knowledge of a whale. paritaprevir The daughter of the Birgir of Þórarinsson, how is it 5th? The law about the treasure of Christianity has arrived. It has historical roots. It is rooted in a massive possession of property that was conducted between the Church and the State as a recipient. These are the facts that all who want to know admit and admit, but they're free to beat their heads at the stone and they don't recognize it. The question raised here also, if you could shed light on it from a different direction, validate the decision of public members. It is not permitted by the State to assign property unless it is legalized. The government cannot borrow unless it is legal, and it cannot assume property unless it is a legal authority. Similarly, a provision of rural property must be set up on a similar legal rule. A community cannot decide to hand over to someone, to say money, to stocks, to property, to paintings, or to land unless it is authorized. Now it is 5th. The law on Christian Fund has included legal support, the legal basis for the development of rural areas for churches in the way the law expects them to. There's the legal rule at work. Since then, it has been a great presentation to discuss, on the other hand, the universal rule of the Constitution and the regulations of the 62rd chapter. Constitutions for special protection of the nations, etc., as known by men. Those who have discussed this in this way, including the representatives of some community members, have concealed behind the fact that they have been allowed to account for their municipal holdings without any legal authority because there was an equal rule in the Constitution. It is surprising, however, that this universal constitution will no longer go to 62rd. of the State Church. [[Strike to the front: Bravo.]] And why do I say that? Because this is the case. There are two Supreme Court hearings in this country and at least one judgment, if no more, will be passed on the European Court of Human Rights. Those who have walked under the premise of this structure and have produced discrimination or any of that kind, and therefore the Constitution's equal rule should be 62rd. for the State Church stronger, the case has been rejected by courts. This can be checked and looked up as they are considering more subtle aspects of how to interpret laws and other kinds of things that humans in general do not do unless they have at least one. with such conviction, which may be heard in some languages, is of particular interest to him. I would like to court and underline this matter, Mr. President, that it will not be different than dealing with legitimate matters. The historical explanation for Article 5. The law on the Christian Fund that is here proposed to be exonerated is naturally valid. However, there are other viewpoints that come along there, and they support the conclusion that on the basis of it, rural society is permitted to set limits on churches. That, of course, is the correct understanding. paritaprevir The Þórarinsson of Thornarn's son discussed the matter with great honor, learning, and knowledge. I don't expect, Mr. President, to be the most intense in this process, as is done with this bill, to let the night of this bill go by, but we're going to keep on doing it, but I'm not worried because this whole thing is naturally built, to be taken into account, on very low ground. There are factors that fail to pass a historical opinion, do not hold to the remarkable values that were replaced by the dramatic transfer of the church to the State, and that do not hold to the judgments available in this matter, which are completely explained and available to every human, and that humans can look them up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u69	A respectable president. It seems odd. A senator was not entirely following up during the annual discussion when discussing the church meeting and the value of what was considered very well considered to be a church service committee since 1992. [[Up front.]] It was highly considered that the value of what was then established by the church - many years of research on which church properties were right at that time - would be about a billion, and it was calculated to a crown at that time. This is calculated to about 3 billion in 2018, not much more today. That's the extent we're talking about here. That's why I'd like to ask. The same question that I asked here for another senator: Just as the state is paying infinitely for these possessions, which are worth about 3 billion and is paying more than 3 billion a year for possessions, which, overall, are $3 billion, while the state is paying infinite amounts of money for them on earth, how can it be impossible for us to give back the Church? Why are we not chargeing an infinite amount of money back for returning the lands to the church? Maybe later we'll make another contract on an infinite amount of money to get the churches back, or what?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u70	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'll let me remember that we had it. A senator was both part of the discussion he referred to. The discussion noted that there is no assessment or article on the value of the assets listed there, and I hear here some sort of consent. A senator - he explains how he feels about this. [[Up front.]] I thus consider that during this discussion there has been an recognition of the fine members of Porta's party that adequate assessment of this value is not available. But I must make a comment on the use of the dog. paritaprevir The son of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, of the word infinity. It is not infinity here at work, even so that a series of untimely payments can be evaluated for the final amount. There's only a formula for that, e.g. in financial studies. I'm convinced that if anything happens. A senator would think of that lesson, and he would understand what is being said here. His use of the infinity, which is a very interesting and fascinating subject, cannot be fully understood.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u71	A respectable president. The arrangement does not have a final date, it does not have an overview, it does not have an overall number on the cost of property transfer. It is dated in 1997 to be non-endumable, this Šlimit-dot. There are 3.5 billion in terms of today's prices, next year and as many years as possible, and we can count because this is not a date's expiration date and complete resolution, except to pay forever for this move. That's why it's infinite. There's an infinite number of years under. Although it is only a dollar a year, after all, it is an infinite sum. This is very interesting. It was very well considered during the discussion before Christmas. The best available data are the Report on the Church Products Committee. There are details to go, but there may not be much different in the amount. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is possible to pick a few crowns, a hundred times as far as it can go, but we have the best data available.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this conversation but what? A senator misdirects these matters. I'm not going to get into any teacher's chair here, but it's natural that money has different values by where it's located in time, if I can put it that way. The amount of money that comes to pay now will not be equal to the amount of money that will come to be paid in the future at some future time. Of course, growth is involved, and we have terms like growth and other aspects of it. As a result, such claims fail. Sadly, a senator of infinity is out of a enlightened view, not necessarily a highly theoretical, unfocused state of mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u73	Mr. President. So I noticed why. A senator spent the first minute of his talk trying to point out some form of suspicion in that it was with the Pirats that were putting forth such a matter and even making it hard to believe that others were with us in it. To this end, all I have to say is that the only ones who have spoken against so far have been members of the Central Party. But that's not why I'm here. I'd like an answer by what? Senator. If I were to sell it. A senator's house, would it be natural that there was a legal requirement for me to ask for a free room at any future time? If I were to sell it. A senator's cake, would it be natural that there would be a legal requirement for me to make a request for a piece in the future? Now, with the church meeting, there was a business where land was bought at an enormous price, but business was still to take place. Is it reasonable to have a law to give back a part of it? Let us keep in mind, in view of a talk given. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin earlier, is true that some societies were in church, but they were not all. Not all of them were. However, the requirement of this law applies to all societies today. It requires that rural areas contribute to religion despite business transactions, and historical justification cannot be referred to. So I'd like to understand why. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u74	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his answer. There were some questions there, and I don't know if I can answer all of them, but I will do my best. I didn't have any trouble finding out that men were supporting each other. Pirata's members in this lawsuit. I was just saying that I was amazed at who was doing it. Just as the rest of them have the perfect right to contribute to whatever matter they choose, I also have the permission to express my surprise that they are using their name in such cases. A man might have been expecting something else from such sources, especially the ones I mentioned. Hv. A senator raises imaginary questions or examples and seeks my attitude toward them. I just want to answer him in that there is freedom of agreement in business in this country, and men are free to negotiate what they choose. Then there is the assumed that there is no forced or underdeveloped condition. If it's a deal, they can negotiate what they want. True, there are some forms of negotiation, but this is the principle. I think I'm sure I will. A senator is aware of this, so he can answer his own questions, just as I do, of course he realizes the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u75	Mr. President. I draw attention to it. A senator refused to answer my question, knowing that his case is preposterous. Now I note, however, that these laws actually predict legal property uptake. These are rural groups with organizational authority, which in many cases if not everyone owns his country, require the legal obligation to hand over their property to others without charge in certain cases and in the case of a religion that meets the right conditions. This must go against the legal rights of the Constitution, but in any case, it is forbidden to try to claim that a piece of property that is taking place under the standards of religious freedom or justification is something other than property, just because someone thinks it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u76	Mr. President. It's natural, as you might expect, interesting. When you're talking about property recordings, I'd like to encourage you. A senator to use terms accurately. I don't know if he's thinking about it. A Merk Physics was written in the last century by Jörundsson, who deals with possession studies, and it is the core of the property rights of which sources exist regarding the provision of property and what authorities have to provide property in such a way as possession. I would just encourage it when discussing these factors, that there is no indiscretion and at all not at the scene of the Generals about these things. This is a serious matter, and it is for a learning work and a judicial project that enables us to discern how things happen in the fine shades of paint.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u77	A respectable president. Hv. A senator went over only 62th and 65 gr. The constitution, in fact, seemed, I suppose, misunderstood a little of the language of what is here and those who have spoken about it. The person standing here is well aware that the laws proposed here to be changed would be in harmony with the constitution. I am well aware of the 62rd grade. The constitution is in place. I know exactly what it means. I know its source. It's a gift, for example. Sources of discrimination, in particular in the interest of one particular religion, which in everyday usage is called the local church. That's what 62 C.E. stands for. does. We're not in court, a respectable president. Here's the legislature, here we're gonna decide how we're gonna keep things. We are not asking how the law works and what it does. We are here to explain how the law should be based on our convictions. So this is not some legal analysis between me and my wife. Senator. I'm not a legalist with anything he said. I disagree. A senator on the matter of law and constitution. I'll think about it. A senator hit on the head when discussing the value of 65rd pars. The Constitution, equal to totalitarian, will no longer walk the National Council. And that is exactly the problem. I suppose that's what I'm gonna do. A senator and his party are in favor of the law, believing in his heart that all citizens should be equal in law and enjoy rights without regard for sex, sex, sexual expression, and religion. But I get that attitude very hard to deal with. A senator similarly supports the 62rd paragraph. The constitution allowing this discrimination. Point is this: If we were to do nothing else to the constitution than remove the 62rd paragraph. it is obvious that the laws here proposed to be changed would not stand up for a constitution because of the inconsistency. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. A senator would agree with me on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u78	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I just have to say that I would generally not express myself agreeing with anything as a matter of course. A senator argues when it comes to correcting the students or other such factors. I would look in other directions if I had any doubt about such things. The fact is, we have a constitution that was approved by all of 1944's majority in the National Code. We are therefore regulations for the State Church, and we are therefore an equal law, and I agree with the two regulations behind which both stand, as I believe the majority of the people of the land will do. And, of course, there is. A senator is free to use himself here at the General and elsewhere for the changes in the Constitution, every man is allowed to do so, and he can gather a team, but I have to say that more people became warriors than I would when I looked at the list of those who are involved in this case. He's just gonna have to stay a little while with it, okay? A senator, and see how it's going. But as my associates and I will continue to protect these regulations of the Constitution, we are fully aware that the Supreme Court's judgments are under the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights up to 65 C.E. and there's no such thing that can't be moved 62. gr. of the State Church.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u79	A respectable president. I wasn't asking why. A senator to accept my legal interpretation. I was asking who. A senator whether he believed that laws such as those that refer to this community's obligation to give these boundaries would be a constitution of 62rd. The Constitution, the People's Council, the dropout. Counts 'em out. A member of that law specifically deals with certain duties laid upon the rural communities in order to finance the activities of this one religion and not the rest of the 65th grade. The constitution if it wasn't for 62. par.? I don't know how to say the questions straight, more dignified President, and I'd like to say it. A senator will answer that question. It insinuates what we are talking about when we talk about equality with the law or, rather, whether we are above our head.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u80	Mr. President. Hv. A senator goes a little far when he is using the concept of discrimination for himself. The concept of discrimination has nothing to do with this, can't I answer? [[Can't you answer?]] I'm answering the question. A senator, and if he wants to advance, he can, as it were, do so, but I don't know. Councilmen say that this meeting is a board of directors, and it is now very stable. Of course, the government is permitted, of course, to set rules such as the International Parliament, the Lawgiver. A senator and his associates, some of whom are coming from an unexpected source, are putting themselves in action. Of course, the Lawgiver is perfectly permitted to do so. Then this presentation is about one religion. We're talking about the State Church, we're talking about the church in the country that owned all these propertys that they gave to the State and this 5th paragraph. only a slight recognition of how the State took enormous possessions from the church. Little recognition of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u81	A respectable president. The question remains: Would you like to see five? The law here recommended to be dismissed stands by the Constitution, if not for 62rd. The constitution? That's the question. The members of the Central Party refuse to answer, and for good reason, I understand that very well. Besides, I wouldn't answer that if I were on their line because it reveals it and makes it perfectly clear that the law is basically inconsistencies with the National Cathedral. It is merely because of the existence of the National Church Act in the constitution that this discrimination is going to condone and adopt legal matters - which it does. Hv. paritaprevir Ísleifsson Ishunsson misjudges me if he thinks I'm different. I understand the court's judgment. I know them pretty well when it comes to these two articles. A respectable president. I'm going to go over the discussion I thank you for, especially those who have disagreed with those here, but I think it's right to mention a few details briefly. First, there is no evidence that any law code has historical roots. It's not a bad argument, it's not a good argument. It's not a reason. Of course, there are historical reasons for that law. It doesn't mean it's good. Here we do not ask, Was law ever good? Asking whether it is today according to present circumstances. Perhaps there is some philosophical difference between whether we look to the old or the new, but there is a conversation that I would rather have over coffee or beer than in the pantret of the Generals. I don't like religious discussions appropriate in the Pontta IItis, which is among the reasons why I am against 62 C.E. The constitution and freedom of worship and the equalness of law without regard to religious convictions. I'd like to mention why. paritaprevir Birgir's Þórarinsson reviewed a section of a paper saying that religious and biological societies are essentially controversial and may be in hateable speech. Hv. A senator criticized these matters only and compared them if they stood there, for example. A political organization or a Pirantar, or something like it. I'd like to say what. A senator, although I'm not specifically trying to hurt him up here in answer, that I think it accurately describes the point. I would never support the Prancians'or the Independence Party, and much less any special privilege as a political party beyond any political body because political parties are fundamentally controversial and are short in a hateful debate. I think that dot is merely underscores the need for this bill. I want to thank you. 2.m. We're out of Suðvest. "Berry Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir for her comments about the price of street building. I must admit that first when I started listening to it, I felt it wasn't very interesting, or that I wouldn't feel it, but it's very interesting and all the coverage of the acoustice. A member of the local community's authority to arrange taxation differently from the law is very interesting. I'm not gonna park. A senator's word in his mouth, but I think there's one good reason to agree to this bill and not have some vague sources or sources that create conflicting conditions, I would say. It brings me to my attention that some of them have a bad night. Councilmen who disagree with this matter - perhaps not all of them, for they can pick up some reasons to be against this matter - and who have spoken here for an inequities of speech, I suppose, into the community moderns that are discussed in the report. It is that Reykjavíkurburg decides to give a Muslim partner in Iceland property. The subsequent discussion is in part about whether the city of Reykjavík is authorized to do so by law. There is a legal discussion worth taking, and there is a conclusion somewhere. Suppose the courts were to judge a course that would be a case. paritaprevir In favour of Þórarinsson, son of Thorin, give it to us. However, there is also a debate over the rightness of discrimination on the basis of religious beliefs. The mosque and its construction debate was not largely about the legal issue of whether it was permitted in Reykjavík, although this is undoubtedly their main concern. Senators sitting in this hall. The discussion was about how to treat Muslims and whether they could build mosques. The program suggested a national bill to see if they could build the mosque. It would be a bit like keeping a national law on whether anyone deserves a fair trial or enjoying freedom of expression, an entirely different idea. [[Up front.]] You're absolutely right. You're right. According to one senator, there is another discussion, in view of what he may be most interested in, which is the legal question. All right. This was the case, and it was a direct result of the existence of this law, and it was tried to use it from the issues of 90 years ago. That's what I'd like to emphasize in what is hopefully the final discussion tonight on this subject. It was an effort to control equality that caused the problem. Is that a normal, respectable president? I say no, that's not normal. Efforts to be equal are to be the right way. If the law is so that it is not the right way, we should change the law, in particular in the way suggested here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u82	V.E.G. President. Because of questions why. A senator to Ólafur the son of Ísleifsson the son of Izzor earlier, and the question was, Is this a violation of the sovereignty principle if the law of 62 C.E. wouldn't be in a constitution: Now I don't know if the senator has studied the judgments that have been going on. This has been put to the test before the court of Human Rights in Europe, where national, state - or what people want to call it, has been passed by law beyond any other religious group. It's not about 62 degrees. The constitution. It's just a matter of whether it's allowed to conform to the law. Of course, this is permitted, and the conclusion is that it is permitted, and this is especially true when someone has some kind of appeal or support has special obligations according to law. That's a very important thing. There's also another misunderstanding that's been in this conversation. I can totally understand some point against getting free property for the Church. However, there are also misunderstandings in the discussion that each member of the community and any community are obliged to provide a free property to the church. Of course, that is a organizational matter. A community may decide not to have a church. But rural society wants to have a church because it's the services of the local community, and that's key services, especially in smaller rural areas. Hence, it is only natural for the church to receive free property because it is the local interests. That's the point, and it's so important to look at it from that point on. It's not a question of property uptake, possession, or anything like that. I just wanted to get in there. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u83	A respectable president. I am well aware that various courts have come to the conclusion that it is all right to have a national church and that it is all right to want it. I know. To my knowledge, I haven't said anything that is in opposition to that fact, and I just view it as a proven fact. On the other hand, there is hardly any debate in Iceland, by law, at the will of the special Church of America, on a principle principle. I don't exactly remember what the law is called, but members of Congress are saying that I remind them every year or every other year or so or something about the like, especially, talking to the National Church about their problems and their situation and all that. Today, members of Parliament can go to town and talk to those whom they want to, in fact, as part of their job, directly as part of their duties. They can go to a community of Muslims and Associians and whatever they want. But when we're making laws that especially involve one religion more than another, 65 must come to pass. ... at least occasionally, in some cases. If I don't, I don't know exactly what it is that's 65. You should, if possible, be willing to do so anyway. This includes the inevitable difference of opinion. Hv. A senator, like other members of Parliament, repeatedly notes that the church has certain obligations. All right, but it has responsibilities as a function of the matter in agreement with those who adhere to the religious convictions or at least to the socializing of the State Church and its activities. Now I can take myself for an example. I am not in the State Church, I do not believe in its doctrine - or, indeed, in some of them, but it is not for religious reasons, that is because I find them wise; many of the things Jesús frá Nasaret said. The role of the Church - it is good and blessed to say that the church is responsible for the service of others outside of that religion. But that does not mean that those outside that religion want to do so. I can, for example. saying, "The Piraans have the duty to receive it. A senator of his own, and he has that right. Hv. A senator sitting here has the right to join Pirata today. Oh, I'm good. Would I, then, begin to justify special appeals for Piranha rather than other political parties? A respectable president. The idea is preposterous.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u84	V.E.G. President. I didn't get any threads there at the end, but let's leave it between things. What I'm just saying, huh? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son is the government, the legislator, at the will of various members, some of whom receive financial contributions and others are not in the same kind of operation. There needs to be some particular viewpoint behind it. The viewpoints behind the here surrounding the National Church, which has been part of this community and a special law, are that it has obligations beyond other religions. The kind of coincidence that this matter is all about can be considered normal. I can totally understand that someone is against it. But they must not confuse it with the 65th par. Everything's been tested. It's just a conclusion, that's all. It's not supposed to be talking about it. We're just here to talk about opposing the church's backing despite having obligations under law or just removing the laws on the State Church and all its duties - start there, please. Senator. [[Yeah.]] Don't always start on the wrong end. You always start backwards in everything you do, and that's your problem. But you're so caught up in this, you're so obsessed with trying to bring this church down in one way or another, weak as you can, that you can't see the way and always start on the wrong end. But okay. You can have any opinion about my church, but you can start at the beginning.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u85	A respectable president. There's a perfect misunderstanding. A senator says that it is in any way a waste of time or in the presence of the State Church. May she live and thrive as long as possible. The only thing spoken of here is the equal of law and equality, even though there are some sources of discrimination on the basis of that enough members of the council, as well as the church's personal religious convictions, in effect. Basically, we, and this is a political opinion, should treat religious and biological organizations and all such similar societies on an equal basis, even if we do not have a written constitution. [[Up front.]] There's one thing I'd like to correct in a lawsuit right now. Senator. He says all of this has been ripped apart, but he does what he does so often in his speeches that he sometimes forgets that he is a senator and not a lawyer. The Constitution has not been tested as it is without 62rd. The constitution. It hasn't been put to the test because, unfortunately, she's still there, so I don't give much for that particular presentation. But then I have to say, because I have this time to answer. A senator about Piratar's beginning on the wrong end: I notice that A senator always suggests that we do something other than we are doing, no matter what we're doing. [[Up front.]] It's not suggested here for 62 st. I'll be suspended, a respectable president. This bill does not include it, and in fact, the person standing here has not submitted to the fact that I am more concerned with implementing a new constitution, which is, unfortunately, an unscrupulous national law that I will vote with and then attempt to cancel with the approval of the voters. Here's a suggestion to start with the end of the day. A senator suggests that the law of the State Church is about to be changed, which we don't think should be the way it is. As far as I can see, we're about to follow better advice. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u86	Madam President. I guess I'm starting at the wrong end of this, like anything else, but I'm recommending a bill to correct the changing of the law of the parts that are about to be settled into the payment of interest. Financial companies are among the enterprises in the community that are considered systematically important in the sense that a pot is broken in its business or if it is exposed to complications, it is likely to have considerable negative and confounding effects outside the community itself, even for society and economics all. As a result, separation of special work permit and management forms of financial institutions, increased demand for a capital grant, restrictions on the treatment of assets in such companies, and an increased monitoring of the public. They are also more informed, and that is how they can continue to be counted. Because of the importance of financial companies in the community and the delicateness of the management of these organisations to form for the arrival or possible intervention of owners in their business, the provision of financial companies is desirable as far as possible. As a result, the main characteristics of the partner form are limited to spending money from such partners to their owners, the shareholders. That arrangement is supported by two principles of society's rights, one that has to limit responsibility, i.e. that the company's holdings of limited responsibilities are reserved for the union's demands; however, the opinion of the owners of the company on its resources is limited. The legal payment of such a partner should be given, and should therefore only be carried out if certain conditions are met, such as that the community's personal financial standing is maintained, regardless of payment, and that the interests of the union's demands are not put at risk, despite the payment of funds to the owners. In the case of financial companies that have permission to receive loans and other reimburse money from the public, there are demands not only on those who have granted these enterprises traditionally or bought bonds in them or on short-term documents but also on depositors. The creditors of financial companies are rarely in a position to protect their interests by negotiations with financial companies, including Because of the differences between position and size of depositors and the financial company they have committed to their depositors. It can be said, therefore, that the most common of the payments for shareholders are in cashiers. In XII. the section of the Law on Part Companies shows that it is obviously a law written in mind that it is at least A principle that cash is paid. Remuneration in a different form than cash, especially from financial companies, carries an increased risk for the community itself and its demands, including depositors, smaller shareholders, and other economists, such as the tax authorities, are at risk that property is taken from a stock and that it can be taken at a price other than the real value of it. In this context, it is important to keep in mind that the written price of a social event is rarely the real value of the property. Also, internal or external prices are not guaranteed to be reliable confirmation of the real value of a possession, since such assessments are based on grounds given on one-sided evaluation. The conclusions derived from prices depend on the criteria given. They may prove to be inaccurate or even false. In particular, it should be noted that if the shareholders of financial companies are largely foreign because in order to reduce their own currency risk, they are expected to demand money paid on foreign coins other than financial contributions. As a result, the pressure on the managers of a financial firm is to lend on more risky foreign currency projects and even to vulnerable individuals and businesses. All of this is about to create a problem that is quite easy to fix. In certain cases, owners may start taking possessions out of financial assets that are stocks, assets, or other assets and may also try to exploit foreign currency. To prevent the problems that then arise, the law can simply be stated in a clear and conclusive way that when it comes to financial enterprises, they should always be paid in cash with the company's payments, which are relevant and not otherwise. This is natural because there is a risk when we have a relatively small and relatively large financial enterprise on the Icelandic market, which has considerable wealth in the form of bonds, stocks, and other assets, but may not have so much personal value above the law. Here, the aim is to limit the risks of the current law, to reduce the system risk, to reduce the risk of shareholders, including the state in cases where the State has a large share in banks, even if there may be less items in some cases, and of course to the tax authorities. This is a modest suggestion to try to correct this risk. This may be unnecessary concern of the movers who are with me, a Smári Mccarthyr, huh? The members of Bjöl Leví Gunnarsson, Halldóra Mogensen, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, Jón Þór Ólafsson and Thordldur Ævarsdóttir, the daughter of Asvars, are so concerned that we have previously submitted this bill to the 148th and 149th. Neither of them did this work out, so we reimburse it. I really hope this is unnecessary concern, but since it is the small, moderate, and simple change in law that should under no circumstances interfere with financial activities, unless less, with nothing more than to strengthen a little of our systematic interests, I think there is every reason for the development of the case. and the Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u87	Madam President. I recommend a proposal for a resolution on the formation of elected representatives within the United Nations. The voices have been heard and heard more and more frequently to look for ways to make weighty decisions in the name of the United Nations. There are many who have too much power at the Security Council, where five states, the United States, China, Russia, Britain, and France have a negative influence. At the United Nations institution in the middle of the last century, no doubt people have been freshly reminded of the fact that their powerless predecessor, the League of Nations, was already under test. The superpowers did not think that they needed to take into account the decisions of the League of Nations and the conclusions made there and therefore went forward with confidence, as the examples have proved. It is not likely that this historical background will explain to some extent the overemphasis laid upon the arrival of major powers of decision making at the United Nations organization. This would ensure that their goodwill toward the organization and that decisions made in those areas would be respected. On the other hand, the great military power of the Council of Safety has led to their somehow threatening their interests by the United Nations approved by the General Assembly. This is especially true of the United States, China, Russia. This imperfect arrangement will be established only with the support of two - thirds of the General Assembly, as well as with which the solidty of the Council of Security can omit any suggestions for changing the United Nations organization with its negligent authority. The present system of things leads to an enormous kingdom of equal importance in all matters as in small states, e.g. China has as many votes in the General Assembly as Kiribati, and Tuvalu has as many votes as India. This is in the General Assembly, of course, but at the scene of the Security Council, the superpowers take their own power. This results in a tendency to shun the General Assembly and to ignore its implications in various ways. By giving countries greater weight in line with the population and by bringing the United Nations work closer to the national population in each country, the United Nations can at any time strengthen the position of the United Nations on the world scene and strengthen the confidence of the common people in the United Nations. This proposal is to provide support to the Generals on the proposal to increase democracy within the United Nations and to promote the influence of citizens of the Member States on their activities by establishing elected representatives within the United Nations. It is assumed that at first this Council will be the task of counselling, but if it succeeds, it may, in time, become a decisionmaker for the work and policy of the United Nations. This arrangement is remanded from 149 C.E., but it was previously proposed by my son Jónasson at the 145th and 144th legislatures, and I thank him for a good suggestion. The proposal remains largely unchanged from the first donation, but the report has been updated slightly, and now a accompanying copy of the UNPA Campign challenge is added. I'm a little Mccarthyr, along with a sledge. The members of Björn Leví the son of Gunnarsson, Halldóra Mogensen, Hrafn Hjöfni the son of Gunnarsson, Thorhildi Ævarsdóttir the daughter of Avvar, and Andrés the son of Ingi Jónsson. In recent years, mainly in the last year, I have worked with an international body of members from many parts of the world who share in supporting this proposal. This is an imperfect solution, but it is a better solution than most that have been made because it is determined not to be replaced by the General Assembly but to create something that might be called the lower U.S. League, where there is some kind of balance between the population of every state and its authority within the council. As a result, the big powers, then more important, could become more involved in this arrangement than always using the Preservation Council. The safety Council has been tricky, and most people feel that there is a problem with the safety Council that has not been solved in any other way. This proposal has the advantage not only to promote a democratic approach by having more representatives who are closer to the public in each country but also to provide some other kind of security device to use it without ever having a change and denial. This could create a situation in which the Council of Security would be adjusted the form that may have been resolved in the beginning, that it would take care of the world's security rather than simply standing in the way of good democratic changes when the world calls for them. The United Nations is my opinion, Madam President, an extremely important system of institutions. Perhaps we do not notice much about it in Iceland during our day - to - day activities and perhaps even less in the community, where we do not live in a country where most of the institutions of the United Nations could help. Happily, we have not needed the assistance of nations as much as we do of others, but we have actively participated in many institutions. The UN Women and UNESCO - in reality, there are so many organizations that they cannot be listed. In recent years, efforts have been made to undermine the work of the United Nations. In some ways it has had a contractions of financing, e.g. of the United States when they withdrew all their support from UNESCO At the same time, in many ways the United Nations has to change as there is a greater suspicion toward the world's ruling system. Whether we are talking about a single nation, their assembly, or the United Nations itself, it is clear that democracy is needed everywhere. For example, when we are speaking of an established system that is important, but perhaps not overpowering democracy over the work in the United Nations, it may be interesting to see this proposal as a sort of attempt to fix what is then better than to start over because we know what happened last time. I had the joy of visiting the United Nations General Assembly in the fall along with some good things. Councilmen. Was that trip quite illuminating for me, both because I saw the value of UN organizations working well, but I also saw how many of them are fragile and what the United Nations organization has to deal with the fact that individual states are on their side, not just days, but that their name actually harmonizes with the goals of the United Nations. Therefore, it is perfectly normal for us to accept this challenge and support as Iceland and Iceland's council in this moderate attempt to make democracy of this important institution. Otherwise, I don't know how bad it could be. The United Nations General Assembly is in New York, an important global city that is important both in the West and in the Northern Hemisphere. If any of this sort were to happen to me, it would be fun and natural for me to have a place in the Southern Hemisphere and in the Orient to create a balance that is not present today. But it's my personal opinion of a case that's much bigger than I am. I say, though, that it would be a good thing if this issue went on to another one. and that I'm the State Department. She's at least A fine place for the case, and hopefully the General will give it a walk.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u88	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for my story and a nice suggestion that I support my mind. It is a joy to be seen at this point in which the United Nations celebrates this year's 75th anniversary. I think it would be a great idea for the General to agree with the proposal and follow this case, as it really is necessary. It is also vital to remember the efforts of the United Nations since its creation in 1945 and to learn from the mistakes of the Agency. However, in the 75 years since the establishment of the UN of 51 Member States, many changes have taken place in Bosnia, but today there are 193 countries. It is vital that the United Nations work be reformed, for many things have changed during this time, and there has been an enormous increase in the number of countries during this period but still have things like that. The safety advice will change very little. It is therefore essential that democracy be reformed and increased within this ideal institution. What I think may be most important in these matters is that security must be taken into consideration and brought to modern values. Sadly, the nations sitting in the Precinct will enjoy certain privileges that are out - of - date to me. These are few nations and have long been in security. We have seen its negative effects, such as. Just in terms of denial, when countries have used the noxious power in very important matters that have already been abused by innocent citizens in war - torn lands. Closely there is the issue of Syria, where Russia has used denial up to 12 times. There has been a requirement within the Council for the investigation of bioweapon attacks that the nation's president has brought against its own nation and its enormity, which within the council has repeatedly been called upon to investigate. This one example illustrates the need to undergo restoration to this excellent institution and to increase democracy within it. This proposal is very necessary in my opinion and good, and it would be a great example for us Icelanders to accept and make such a suggestion within the United Nations that this was our contribution on the basis of their 75th birthday. The United Nations is very important. They are more important than many suspect, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs has. Said. There was a meeting that the secretary of state had with the United Nations secretary - general at his visit that Iceland played a significant role in the United Nations. I believe we should try to increase our influence there. We enjoy international trust, we are an armyless nation, and we are a nation without weapons. This has a lot to say when it comes to e.g. The search for peace. I have previously stated from this talk that we have a great deal of opportunity in the material we are to apply ourselves. The secretary - general of the United Nations has confirmed that Iceland has extensive trust, which is a source of great satisfaction. I left with what. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr, too, to New York in the fall months, where we visited various United Nations institutions and presented ourselves with the fine work that is being done there. I have also worked for the United Nations under refugee aid in the Middle East and know how important this institution is, but you have also seen with your own eyes the need to make improvements. That is why I am very happy to have such councils, councils of cooperation, and free society that are working toward the global goal of increasing democracy within the United Nations. It is an organization that is well - supported and likely to back up what they have concluded in these areas. I have to say, unfortunately, there are other areas of improvement in the United Nations, e.g. ... inthe fiscal field. When it comes to human rights and the United Nations Human Rights Committee, it is vital that it be brought up. Then, as we know, we have an invitation to the United Nations Security Council. Iceland and I know this because we volunteered for a seat in the council back then, but we did not succeed there. I know that process a little bit, I studied it at a time when I was studying in the United States. It can be very expensive for the state to volunteer in the Precinct, and various means are used to achieve the ideals I would like to be questionable. There's something that needs to be changed, and I encourage these fine members of Congress to look into how things are being carried out when offering an offer to the Council of Safety. I was surprised to learn that countries spent a lot of money volunteering, and I believe that it would be better for various refugee help and for the needy and for those in war - torn areas than for the end of a campaign. This is to be heard in the past so that the entire system that appeals to the Safety Council needs to be renovated. How important that is! This has been discussed for many years, and since 1990, it got a little jumpy. The United Nations chief secretary at that time, Ban Ki-moon, used this to work, but unfortunately, it's all very heavy in the field. In part, it is because the states that have great authority there, such as the Council of Security, which attracts the denial of the authority as I came in earlier are primarily defending their interests. It is unnatural to see such disasters as Syria's view that a state can use denial simply because it serves, for example. not the interests of researching bioweapon attacks. It's a terrible attitude, and it's amazing that this is still happening. Therefore, I think it is very important that we apply ourselves in this field and now to our 75th anniversary this year's birthday that our voice is heard, that we speak for reform of the United Nations and increase democracy and promote the democratic living that includes. in this suggestion that I rejoice as I say, hoping to get a walk here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-22-51.u89	A respectable president. One small, short matter that is simply about the 2nd matter. 10th par. the law on the birth and parent's fate depart and that the change will already be made. The sentence to be dismissed is this: ▪ You must never take a birthworm for less than two weeks at a time. This was previously changed by law No. 90/2004 where it was extended from one week to two. What is missing is a certain curve in the intake of birthworm. On birth and parent'sorof, No. 95/2000, is the minimum time a employee is allowed to take a birthworm. In the 10th. The law says that the birthworm may never be taken for less than two weeks at a time, but with this bill the limitations of the short period of birth can be removed. There is no need for such restrictions, for a pregnancy is always agreed with an employer. When an employee believes that he or she will benefit from taking a hysteria for such a short period of time, it is right for the possibility to exist and also for the flexibility to be able to e.g. take three days a week in a maternity but not continuously, perhaps three days half a day or something like that. Actually, the law should not interfere too much with the conversation of the person who is taking a birthworm and the employer. Rather, it should only give the possibility that even within a week, there can be a switch between those who are taking birth metals and taking care of the baby.
