ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-80.u1	Mr. President. I recommend a change to the bill to correct the changing of unemployment insurance laws and the guarantee-achieving legislation regarding a decrease in employment rate. My proposal has come from me, but I'm sure she has the approval of everything. The welfare committee, as well as an audience officer. It reads: ▪ After 2 mgr. b-joins 1. Enter a new paragraph, as follows: The tax, on its own, is permitted to provide information to the labour oce that is relevant to the resources laid down in this directive, as stated at 4 mg. ......... This allows the Théoden to share information that may come on its own but does not have to answer the questions of the labour oce. This is very important, and I expect it to be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-80.u2	A respectable president. We're agreeing to a landmark law here, the first law in the package to go to because of the Covid-19 virus. It has proved to be on a welfare committee that the committee can act as if needed. I thank the head of the welfare committee and other welfare committees for their excellent work as well as for the staff. I hope that in the next few matters, this work will be exemplary, and I believe it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-80.u3	A respectable president. Here we are voting on a very important matter in the unprecedented state of the world. This makes it more likely that an enterprise wishes to continue the employment contract with its people and that employees may have a chance to go to up to 25% work and the employment insurance fund pays them 75% of their pay. This is very important and good changes were made on the bill by ensuring low-employers and middle-temperers on the floor, to a minimum of 400,000, to a maximum of 700,000, and to the fact that we are meeting the independent professional drivers as well as to be able to bring benefits to the work offered each month as well as students and to others in part-time work. I think this case has developed into that we can be very happy with it, and I now express joy that we could work it together.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-20-80.u4	A respectable president. Since we're paying a vote on this bill in the final version, I'd like to be glad that we're here to accept this and that there's a solid solid solidarity in the council. With the changes we've made on this bill, we're taking a very big step in protecting people's and businesses, especially their income, over the next few weeks and months. It is of utmost importance that we are ensuring a position especially the most efficient group in the area and at the same time allowing the companies to be able to reduce their employment rate to 25%. I encourage companies and employees to take advantage of this resources as best they can, instead of ending employment contacts and going to lay-offs. We are going to go through this together, and it is extremely important that as many people take advantage of it. Finally, I want to thank the welfare committee for the progress of the case and how it has worked in the cooperation that I and the Ministry have had with the committee, and I thank you for the solidarity that is forming in the chamber here.
