ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u1	To answer, the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs, Transport and Regional Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers and Ministers of Justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u2	President. The government worked hard to sign the so - called transport contract of the capital area, which we discussed earlier in the summer. It seems that this was done primarily to provide a ransom of some kind in the form of an extraordinary high force from the State to be carried out on the basis of a city line. A ransom, I say, is because it was supposed to release other projects, many of which have waited too long, some even decades. However, only the government had been fooled to sign this treaty and to put it through the council, but the mayor of Reykjavík simply sings the government, explaining that it is not possible to fulfill the very positive part of the contract, namely, that the most positive part of the contract is the government. parts such as Daffy Road. In fact, the chairman of the Board of Organizations of Reykjavík goes so far as to say that it was more reasonable to use the money that was to take up the Sunway in removing the airport from Watermam. That's why I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance: How will the minister who handles the State treasury react to this? Now you would have thought that it was as if it became clear that government management is no longer allowed for projects such as the city line, that the funds available on a lucrative project are needed, for projects that are practical and not without lasting problems, such as the city line. But how are you planning to do the highest. The secretary of finance responds to these advances in the city, showing that it simply goes its own way? Although, on occasion, the State is deceived into making some sort of agreement, whether in the airport or in the airport, its city will move forward. Isn't it time to react, chief. Secretary of finance?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u3	A respectable president. It's so wrong. A senator that the government has stepped into something. The government simply has a vision that it was important to make extensive transport efforts in the capital area. This, on the other hand, involves a solution to large traffic trawlers, making traffic knots, and causing people to lose time from friends, family, and work and, on the other hand, that here in the capital area, they need to make more efficient public transportation systems. There, all the rural areas in the capital area are united in a vision. It is for further implementation in cooperation with the local council of the members of the community, and it has been authorized by the General Assembly. I assure you, there is no one involved in the matter of a special interest in such dire and lasting problems. A senator expressed it. However, this may well be, and it will likely be a test of man's differing view of the best way to achieve these goals, which should be easy to unite in, the powerful, and the paying of public transportation, as well as road construction, and the road system that goes up and serves the city of the capital area. They're waiting for the company, and the council will also have to take their stand on a transport plan and with budgets each year how we plan to finance the ideas that have been on the table. I'm going to be completely clear about that if there's a big disagreement about this cooperation project, which I think it is, of course, is the result. I don't see that the council is interested in the fact that only part of the agreement works out, but everything else is being ignored. On the part of the State, it has been very clear that participation in the construction of public transport property in the capital area, which is a very important matter, depends on how it solves the big, difficult issues we know who are in the capital area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u4	President. I'm not at the top of it. To ensure that the State would not pay for the city line unless certain items were carried out, especially the Sunday and certain district conventions in this town, a minister would find the challenge of getting the more part of the council to agree to take in. It was almost impossible, and in the end it did not quite quite, getting the more part to agree with this condition. It must have simply been because the government, at least Part of it, has come to realize from the beginning that the city would never be true, no more than it has done in recent decades. So clear answers from the highest will be needed. Secretary of finance that he will not accept this on the part of the city, and this requires response. It's not enough to say, we just keep going and we'll start this company, and hopefully the council will one day sort it out. This is what the city's reaction calls for the highest response. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u5	A respectable president. It's not gonna be my reaction when this is a test. Now, we're going to officially finish the Society's establishment for this month. They move in there to the government, to the community, to a number of solutions and to the transport and transport committees of the Parliament will have other opinions that have affected this association for their release. We know clearly what these big projects are about the traffic workers. We know each other, for example. The road and the corners of the road This is where the waterway has been named. We know an assignment on Ring Lane, Great Course, and many more. The key point is that once the council has funded funding for the construction and repair of the traffic knots in the capital area, we expect the situation to have some progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u6	A respectable president. August 27th. ... inanti-resurrection at 0800 hours. 14:16, said the highest. Secretary of finance: And as for a crown in return, we no longer have that phenomenon after the latest changes. I'm asking, is he right? He knows better, doesn't he? It was approved at a quarter of a dollar in the estate. A dollar and a quarter, respectively. The most severe number of survivors is reduced. Surprisingly, the government was ready to pay 30 to make a crown in return to the centenarian system. There could have been 30 to 40 million who would have saved themselves not to do so. So a dollar across the street is inside. It also says: "But we're still going to finish reforming the disability - saving system. There are 65 pennies against a dollar. One hundred and twenty million dollars is spent at a rate of 65 dollars in an effort to pay for the price of a dollar in return to a crown of correction. This has been for four, five years now. It's been given to older civilians, but it's not something they don't have. You already have tens of millions of people, and when you finally plan to take a cent for a dollar of the microchip, that's what you'll have for five to ten years. That's when the cripples are just paying for it themselves. I ask you, is it an acceptable saying that you just tell them wrong in the conference hall? You agreed yourself. I'm asking a minister if he doesn't agree with me that we're supposed to stop this dollar for a dollar and save the state the 30 to 40 million that this cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u7	The president reminds us to direct their case to the president and not to address humans in person.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u8	A respectable president. For many years here at the council, we've talked about the strategy in the micro-energy reform system that a dollar's rights are cut when a person has a specific farm. Hv. A senator just stood in that position where I am right now and noted that the rule no longer applies. She's moved down to 65 bucks across from a dollar. That's the way it is. There was a word. A senator said there was a 65% decrease but no more. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] It is the rule of all discussions about a crown against a crown that has turned around and has been canceled. There's nothing to be done since when we've done that job and talk about that in some other systems, in some other context of the value of a dollar against a dollar, which is just another matter. That's a different story. And what's that dollar against a dollar's decrease? It was the efforts of the then - ruling government to reach those who had everyone, least of all, by using limited funds. It was possible then to create a class of rights, which was only for those with nothing else. As people made any other income, they lost a dollar. This was a way of reaching out to those who were weak. I'm just saying, is that bad methodology, huh? Senator? I don't know that any case here at the council has ever been so thoroughly inverted, as did Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir's efforts at the time to reach out to those who had least of them. This led to a crown's ride in the opposite direction so that the one at the bottom of the income ladder would receive most of the limited quality. But all of this is turned upside down and pretended that the same people were being taken away. This is bullshit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of finance answers. But he's just wrong, it's in the social security system, they've put a dollar back in the social security system, the worst set. Then it says the highest. A minister in the same objection that since his return to financial administration, in the last seven to ten years, there has been a 100% rise in social security, from 40 billion to 80 billion. That's what he's claimed before. But is there an increase in pay due to increase in the numbers of older people and disability, tax and impairment, 80% with taxes, blundering, character discount, and increase compared to rates that have increased? Is it in this number, this huge increase in social security, that's how it's calculated, and that's all these impairments and taxes and other things in this problem, and that it shows that social security workers are so great? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u10	A respectable president. That's how I see it. A senator confirmed what I was referring to earlier. He's talking about a different system, a lower rule, a completely different set of rules than the ones that have been discussed with a dollar against the dollar system that has been canceled. We now have what you might call 65 bucks across from a dollar. The core of all discussions about income - related systems should be about whether it is an efficient way, whether it is reasonable, because it merely involves efforts to bring as much of a limited amount of money to those who have least. Hv. One senator expressed it as putting a dollar in return for the weak. It's the other way around. As people earn more money elsewhere, the right to get this particular group of benefits is limited. That's what this is all about. Then we can work out if enough money is set up in that category, whether or not to raise the benefits, etc. But I believe that income restrictions are generally an excellent means of managing limited funds to those most in need.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u11	Mr. President. Government leaders have spoken of using a wealth of government resources in response to the economic problems we face, but less has been discussed about the status of our rural society. Sad to say, a crisis is the most common reaction among those who may be less fortunate, and the risk of greater inequities in society is increasing. Farmers play a key role in making sure that the inequities will be minimal, but will they have material opportunities to do so? V.E.G. The secretary of transportation and rural management has talked about the need for their own money, the rest of which will be financed by borrowing. Their situation differs, however, and many of the little are not available to them. The damage has resulted to rural society, and it is particularly bad in Southnes and rural communities that have built on tourism. A team report on rural status shows that their financial status is adversely affected by 8.5% of total cost in the last year and that their income will be 10 billion lower than expected. According to a report on the state of the rural community, where income loss, lower remuneration rates, increased operating costs and improved implementation are combined, this will lead to increased debt of rural society, resulting in the near future increases in loans, increased interest costs, and loss of business. So I ask the highest. Country Minister: Where should the rural communities operate? Not to be cut down on a legal function, but the nonstatutory one is as much of a community importance as it should be. Music schools, sports and cultural matters, and a number of important social services. In what ways will the State meet their rural communities in order to ensure continued service, e.g. with children and young people, with homeless and other perimeter groups? Will the government for the sake of ensuring that contributions from equal funds will not be reduced to the countryside by providing additional funds for the fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It's good to have a discussion here about the local situation. We have recently received a report and analysis, and a model has been developed that we will continue to update to evaluate and assess the status of our rural society. They can also use a model to evaluate their individual positions. Clearly, we have been growing up for seven years. A fund is to equal the position of rural society, but it differs greatly from that of nearly 80 rural communities in the country. This report exposes and proves what we know about them. No one's ever decided to cut the fund, he's made his own money, including his own money. as a share of the total income of the state funds and as it grows, it reduces according to the way the annual trip is in Iceland. He's grown seven years. In this seven - year - growing economy, local communities should have been able to prepare, and no one can expect such economic growth to continue indefinitely. As it turns out, the situation is different. According to the report, rural society has lost more than 30 billion, some of which can take their own money to one, three, 10 billion, while others can borrow. You're right next door. A senator says some societies cannot. We are simply involved in a conversation with the European Union and the rural communities as to how it is most reasonable to approach the local community to ensure that they can serve vulnerable groups. The subjects of disabled people are in the foreground, but the groups that had what they needed. The senator mentioned this too, and I remind you that the council agreed, for example. The budget for that kind of money this spring. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u13	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I understand it so that it is not the government's intention to add to the balance fund and to strengthen their societies in the position they are now in. Actually, I don't doubt that the highest. Minister is a very well - meaning member of the countryside. However, while many things have been done, as a minister noted, this is simply not enough in the serious situation that confronts the country today. The need is urgent, as indicated by a 32% increase in the number of people who receive financial support for their contribution from the city. It is important that the State will do all it can to support their societies, and there may be other things to do in addition to the growing equations. Will the government, for example. Supporting rural development, for example, by extending the tax reimbursement to rural society due to the implementation of maintenance projects? Will the government strengthen the communities to recruit people of unemployment? Not to be overlooked, however, is the last collapse to make good use of the land's building blocks to create new and varied work across the country. Will the government add funding to national parish programmes and building funds?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u14	Mr. President. I just want to reiterate that we haven't typed any way out of the table and all that stuff. The senator mentioned some of the things we've been working with our communities. We even loved it. budgets for spring parishion. We looked especially at vulnerable groups and brought a substantial amount of money. Social Services has even Children's leisure and sports activities are being developed to provide support, including in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, and so on. We simply have this conversation, and it's very important. I agree with the senator that even if we are in the deepest crisis for 100 years, it is very important that our rural society can live up to its required services. We must not forget that this is the case. It is not unusual for rural society, like everyone else in the community, to experience tragedy as a result. But there are different ways in which they can cope with the problem. We are trying to analyze our assignments, and the outcome will be clarified in the following days.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u15	President. A marine chief repeatedly observes that he does not have the legal authority to allow shore fishing in September. He does not have the legal authority to allow subboat sailors to thus bring food to the settlements of the country, inhabited by desperate need of rescue measures for the Covid crisis. A marine chief says he doesn't have legal authority. What? This is the minister of the seafaring business, and he has the authority to present a legal bill to allow coastal fishing in September, a legal license to allow small boat fishermen to hunt what they couldn't catch last year. It's allowed in the big system. That's a good idea for the country's settlements in a Covid crisis. It's sustainable. Hv. Councilmen Þórhildur Sunna Ævarsdóttir and Friðbjörg Fjord of Elíasdóttir's daughter are prepared with a bill allowing a seafaring minister to allow shore fishing in September. They will offer it today unless the minister of the sea is first and will do so themselves. The director of a professional cartel tells us that her committee is unable to bring such a case and points to our council agreements. They've agreed that at this conference, you can only present issues that are Covid's. Piranus and the Continents point out, of course, the Covid case is allowing the beach fishing in September, to a minimum what wasn't caught last year. It is important that our country's settlements receive an honest answer from a marine minister: Is coastal fishing in September Covid case or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u16	A respectable president. First, I'd like to assume that by the end of August, the coast fishing fleet has never dragged as much into the country as it has been. When we discuss whether it is possible for the fleet to provide what was not caught last year, it shows that it is not possible to put things in the overall context. A decision on the fishing system is thus made by a Marine Research Institute to provide counseling for a seafaring minister. He makes a decision on the use of total resources and when faced with that decision, 5.3% of the decision is made and placed in so - called pots 5.3%. And then there's the rest divided out among the resources, which are that 94.7%. The absolute bioavailability of this 5.3% pot in this fishing year is bent on turning negative on 2,759 tons, leaving nothing left in the pot. The decision men are facing right now - and I'm just now seeing a bill. The members of the Council of Ævarsdóttir Ævardóttir and Friðbjörg the Lady of Elíasdóttir - are about: Where should this authority be taken from? Where will they come from? The year of fishing has just begun. It began September 1. Since we have started working on the basis of our distribution, there are a number of factors that exist here. I've thought of following the advice of scientists. There's nothing better for me to lean on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u17	Not in the gray patch.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u18	Yes, exactly. That is why we took steps to stop going gray fishing because we had come to the highest level of scientific counseling. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u19	President. We talked about this in May, the highest. Minister. Then the minister admitted that he did more than what he had counseled him, and he said that he was authorized to do so. He is authorized to do so, of course. Will the minister really offer the people of the land an explanation that he as minister of seafood cannot do anything about it? That he is bound by law when he can present a bill that releases his hands and allows him to dose more? It can be self-sustained. Why is it possible to switch into the large system, the one not caught in the last year of fishing? Well, because it's sustainable It's objective and sustainable. Of course, only the legal rights to do so are available in the coastal fishing system. It's just a matter of political will and nothing else because we're in charge of the law in the country, and it can be done according to the sustainable nature of the fishing system. Is a minister really telling the people in the country that it can't be done? He did not answer the first question: Is it true that in September Covid is a warrant for a beach hunt? [[The president calls.]] The people of the land must know. Isn't it the case of Covid to save the settlement in such a way that a rescue package allows beach fishing to continue in September? [[The president calls.]] Isn't it a Covid rescue operation for the country's settlements? [[The president calls.]] It's a Covid thing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u20	A respectable president. First of the question: Isn't this a Covid thing? We can classify all creations under Covid if we want to. Let me just say here that there's a crack in furturbing the second year in a row. There are no lobster fishing, there is a massive recession in a seawater hunt. This has to do with sailors and workers in the country. Is it something to discuss, or are they merely going to be in the fishing business, discussing a significantly better catch in coastal fishing from year to year, trying to improve it, rather than leaving the rest of the groups in the garden unsettled?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u21	So you're not gonna do anything?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u22	I'm doing a lot of episodes. I'm working inside the sources that the law permits. The requirement here is, as I understand this bill, that the minister of the marine espionage does not follow scientific counseling on the decision of total resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u23	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u24	I'm just not in that place. I'm following it because I have nothing better in my hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u25	Mr. President. This year the General has approved a two - fold change in financial policy. The yesterday's approval change indicates that the government is going to spread its response to the next three years. Economic pressures are bad, and most fortune - tellers agree that we look into difficult winters where unemployment will increase. economists agree that action to meet the contractions has to be made right now. Spreading them over the next few years will not only reduce their effectiveness now but also increase the likelihood of inflation when they resume their job life. The company simply needs oxygen to maintain its recruitment relationship with the employee. Enterprises and rural communities need opportunities and motivation to hire people to maintain the effectiveness of the people. The government's new and improved financial policy is not clear about the plan. Everything that encourages a job is good. It's not just the human situation, it's the responsible economic. It needs to make it easier for people to make opportunities and make money, to reduce the budget on employers, and to create companies to hire people. If the government is betting that the shock is temporary, as the secretary of finance says itself, why delay the action? Why not respond more quickly? Why did a minister promote financialism that was not more pronounced than he was? Are the steps of the government simply not too small, their rhythm too slow?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u26	A respectable president. First, we have only revised financial policy once this year, but we have done so twice during the term. In this course, we're drawing up the broad lines. We're talking about total recovery, we're dealing with debt development, and we're telling us why we need a review of policy, what has changed into the eye here on economic growth, employment development, etc. We are not dealing with any questions. A senator stands out here to see how we can encourage and exactly what solutions we will bring to the table. That's what we've been doing during the past year at other councils, and next, we'll take special care of the budget and the budget bill. The features we have just presented this year have been very successful. The contribution process has been discussed during these days, its extension, and we see that there has been a very effective resource. However, there are so many other subjects that are less likely to be discussed that have also mattered. Substitution on pay days leaves funds for the economy so that they can concentrate more on handling situations. Changing the tax policy means that in companies who had or had expectations of paying taxes to the state this year because of profits in 2019 the money will remain inside the companies, and may be useful in the business. Similarly, the government's investment campaign is helpful. There is another campaign that we have put into practice in transport and that involves a wide range of lives in Iceland, from transport to basic research, some of which involve the competitive fund, and many more. In reality, this question is, why don't we do more? What is that? A senator is calling after a specific procedure? Some people speak of the government's further investments. [[The president calls.]] I think we should look at the real problem that falls into the private sector.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u27	Mr. President. Inverse and blurred direction. The government of government government of government with new financial policies is at risk if economic growth becomes larger than expected. These are not my words. These are the financial council. What we're talking about is just what we need to make sure that the community can be maintained when it is needed, and it is in the next few months if the government and fortune - teller's bets are entitled to be short and quick. On the other hand, one may suspect that the government is clever and that it is already preparing for the next election, so he intends to have a case in his pocket to finance a campaign that will be set up in the next winter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u28	A respectable president. I like it. A senator stirs together into one bowl of very different objects; the way we use the laws on public finances to provide support and discipline to government administration, which is what the financial counsel was to express ourselves and read about in a talk chair, and the individual action it is. We're not about them in the financial policy, in this redesigning, what unique measures that are. I hear what you're saying. A senator just doesn't bring a single case up here in a speech chair. No more than you could find one thing in a new economic development, not one thing in the world, it's just an empty sheet of paper. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] The headline is that economic policies are involved and that something needs to be done, but there is no content. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u29	The president asks for a sound in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u30	We call it, when people come and say that they have to go another way, that they describe them and set up real suggestions that are then optional but that are not here, and that are critical of what is being done in general words that have exactly no contents. [[JVS: Read the suggestion.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u31	Mr. President. The mistake occurred yesterday that the council agreed as part of a card package of regulations allowing the candidate to apply for undisclosed loans in an undisclosed apartment for an undisclosed amount of money with an undisclosed mortgage. This happened because this was a part of a vote made by an executive Signý named Halla Kristjánsdóttir that candidates with approved offers have a priority in share loans. This means that those who don't have offers in an apartment and who don't have an approved offer can apply for share loans. This means that you can apply for an undisclosed loan for an undisclosed amount of money in an undisclosed apartment. I don't think anybody intended to approve this, but it's not in a vote document distributed from a council office. These are practices that are completely unacceptable. This adjustment was not mentioned at all. A welfare committee, was never offered by e - mail, conversation, or ever. It was not recommended for this adjustment in the 3rd districts. The point. [[The president calls.]] It's all about work. Governments and government officials offer here at the Council. Enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u32	A respectable president. There was a big deal here yesterday about sharing loans. In the last record, there was a suggestion that there may have to be a warrant for a Regulation to state that candidates with accepted non-profit offers. We were in the Committee already in charge of regulations that identified the details of the information that would follow reviews, but that there might be a need to make an effort to make use of the priorities of those who had accepted a purchase offer, as the law was lacking. It would be easier to review applications with this warrant and more certain of the purchases to follow. Suppose 40 apartments were available and 30 people applied. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If so, it would be certain by the regulations that those who have approved purchases use priorities in sharing loans. [[The president calls.]] It may have been hard to believe that it had not been discussed here. [[The president calls.]] But I already sent mail to the committee for a meeting to discuss this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u33	Madam President. It is quite remarkable that such an important point has not been discussed on the welfare committee and much less the presentation, not even e - mail. As we have seen, this cannot be found by one letter in vote documents. Even said what. A senator, an executive of the case, yesterday she had the wrong letter in her hands. I'd kind of like to believe she didn't have a clue. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Why should those with an approved contract have priorities? We were in itself worried about how to switch between the few apartments that are available, and then this is what is not found in our files, and people are sitting here, and they have no idea what's going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u34	Mr. President. This is, as we have clearly seen, first of all, a huge, physical matter. It simply changes considerably whether or not in law or in law, who will be allowed to buy apartments and whether you have to have offers ready to receive the large amount of pay required by the law. But I would like to focus on the tactics here at the council Hall. I'm thinking about it, and it's not too much to pick up the phone to let you know that, yes, there is supposed to be other adjustments, not the one who was asked for a good word because it was only technically and it didn't matter but this material. I can say that in view of the kind of work that a greater part of the welfare committee has been doing in this term that it freezes earlier in hell than I believe it was an accident. It's an unacceptable way to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u35	A respectable president. The ludicrous bill is still going to be a mess, and I'm the one who thought this case couldn't be complicated any more. It was supposed to be so simple, as simple as possible, that's what the British said to us, that's what the Scots said, "Keep it simple." But the thing was complicated, and now it's completely lost. It is quite remarkable that this change can be made without even speaking to one person on the government front of a welfare committee. This is an unsurpassed performance and much of it to the shame that this is the way to be tolerated. There's no way this is supposed to happen. It's just a little correction of the text. That's a lot more than that. That's a tremendous correction of a bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u36	Mr. President. I'm not going to get involved in the subject of this bill because I feel that even if it matters, it's not all about it. This is a perfect thing to do. I really hope this was an accident because if not, it's a total dishonest thing. We have criticized all this ideal period that despite a contract as a promise to improve our consultation with the council, the government has not mentioned it, that is, inconsistencies. However, these are going completely new paths in dealing with people, the Chairman of the Committee, why. Senators on the record. Now I would like the president of the Generals, who has been sitting here for 37 years to tell me if there are any precedents for this. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u37	I suppose it is right to leave the matter to members of Congress for a time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u38	A respectable president. If we let everyone enjoy the doubt and, as they say, turn back in tragic English, in order to try to believe that all of this is done with the best will, that remains what has been complained for years if not for decades, i.e. what happens when the council does not take the time to work professionally. That's the best we can say. It has been warned in committees, warned in a pita, warned about it in committees, over and over again. However, it is always assumed that if people want to look at things a little more carefully, they are at a loss. A lot of people are holding on to me, a respectable president. This assembly needs to work together when it comes to professional work. That's the best thing you can say.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u39	A respectable president. It's all the most special thing to do, but I'm not going to go through the material involved in the process and the practices we had under those approved changes, apparently to the misunderstandings. Yesterday, at the end of the second meeting, we opened up a matter that turned to Icleland's stock tenders, and we took it into consideration. They're leaving the committee. Since this factor, the change in the shared loans, apparently became completely uninformed and uninformed, I wondered, " Is it not right to accept here the change in the social security committee's proposal, if it is willing to do so on the welfare committee, to wind down this decision? ' At least the middle class will not violate the taking of such matters quickly and well into the program so that there will be a change in proposal that can then be considered for a material discussion in the present day.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u40	A respectable president. I think we can just take a deep breath of this matter. It can be said that it would certainly have been better if the motion had been presented to the whole committee before and explained and allowed to discuss it. However, the extent to which this change is made may be considered, according to the fact that it is being explained by a Regulation. I can inform the U.S. Congress that most of the discussion is at hand. The welfare committee was about what the regulations were open, and we needed to clarify the matter more fully. In this adjustment, the Minister's legal rights are being explained to establish rules for distribution. This is a permit for Ministers to set that. But before we changed the case so that there would be periods of distribution, the only priority in the case was the one we were putting in. It was the only priority that was once in the case. So this is not the big change in material things for now. Rather, it is a state - of - law, as was the whole discussion of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u41	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason how he envisions that a House and Civilian institution should accept a loan application for an undisclosed amount of money, that 20% of an apartment that is not known at all, with a pledge of property we don't know who is. I can't figure out what kind of government travel is when they think it's going to work. You cannot apply for a loan from something that is not confirmed. It's just not the way it works. This is different when applying for the provision of social apartments or applying for student loans. This refers to a loan of 20% worth of the price of a real estate. No? Yes, that's what we're talking about. It's gonna work out. [[The president calls.]] It's not just a loan consent for something undisclosed. We have a roof on the budget to be used in this process. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u42	A respectable president. As I noted earlier, I sent mail to the committee this morning and requested or ordered that we meet and discuss this matter. So they didn't take it the other way, so we're having a conversation about a meeting board here. There's an invitation that goes on, and it's not unusual for me to meet and even call the Ministry to talk about it. And this was no surprise. It just appeared yesterday, and we reacted, like the dog. paritaprevir Will Árnason has mentioned himself. And this is not an approved loan. Even if you do not have an approved purchase offer, as stated in the pulling out of the regulations on the context of this issue, you will have to meet certain conditions in order to obtain this loan. Of course, there must be agreements, but there must be clear regulations that can be used to provide a price. That's what it's all about. [[The president calls.]] I think we just need to get together and talk, and then we're done. We do not have to shout here in a speech chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u43	Mr. President. Yesterday, a president and, in fact, a number of other council members felt the most scandalous thing in the world that I hadn't informed my council of something I actually fully informed him about. Today, we face challenges. paritaprevir Signý Kristjánsdóttir does not seem to have informed the council on what a certain adjustment motion was about. It seems to have passed through as a law without really knowing what the adjustment was for. This is evident from the reasons. The senator's obvious confusion of credit and credit applications or of any kind is such a misunderstanding. I'm not sure anyone in this house will realize exactly what the suggestion was. We face the fact that a law was passed at the Council yesterday that no one understands. It has to be fixed. This problem needs to be solved. And in general, we need to take enough time to discuss matters because such work is unpleasant.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u44	President. The main lesson this teaches us is that it is a democratic obligation to consider matters and to determine how all the issues are. It is natural that this is not possible when there is a material change through an adjustment that has not been made under the committee. Even if there have been some transfers discussed, the adjustment is the final implementation that must be carried out under the committee. It must be done. It's a democratic obligation under the law. This may teach us to make sure that people who have a democratic obligation, the members of the committee in this case, to examine them, to give their opinion, to be informed, and, as we noted yesterday, that those who have the right to come to decisions and the right to consult with them on the meeting program will always be able to do so. That is to say the Convention Act, as if it were the rights of members of Congress and the obligation to consider matters fully.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u45	Mr. President. I'd like to agree with those members of the council who have said that we have to look into this process a little bit and see how the candidate was leading the initiative and the deal. However, I would like to reiterate what has been presented in the case of other members of Parliament that I do not view as a great material change in the journey, but it is indeed a way that should have been done and should have been more familiar with it before it came into practice. I agree with that, and I'm happy to say yes. paritaprevir Hulled Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir to take it from the bottom of her head. A welfare committee and there explained this, as was done yesterday after a misunderstanding involving a case. I think at such a meeting it might be possible to correct this misunderstanding. But there is good reason to humbly admit that there is a rash practice here, we can say, and we need to try to learn from it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u46	A respectable president. I must welcome the last words of a speaker. That's exactly what I'm going to do. Still no comment has been made on the fact that there has been a reasonable material debate over the adjustment on both the anti - government and the administrative situation and that there is no wonder because there is no other way to do so, a respectable president. The committee could not be held, the speeches could not be made, the bill has become law; the adjustment is now the law of the land. There's no other place, so I'm defending the members of Congress from both the major part and the smaller part here, in a physical way on the proposal. There is a need to do something to eliminate the fluctuary that identifies the congregational work during such periods. This needs to be done, and the first step is to admit the problem. That's why it's so hard to listen to what it is. Congress officials come up here and say that this is not such a big change or that it is now being presented. Okay, that's just not the point. The case is the practice itself, the lack of respect for the decision process. It is this endless speedy, dignified president. [[The president calls.]] To fix this, a respectable president needs to acknowledge the problem. Senators of the greater part, and I'm actually glad that one down. A senator has already done so. I'm not looking forward to discussing this on a welfare committee, but I'm glad it's going to happen. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u47	A respectable president. It's one interesting thing that this case reveals to everyone, and it's that at times the senators don't know what they're voting about. It's ironic, but it's true. There was no material discussion here. It is very common to ask for permission on certain technical matters or to ask for minor material adjustments may be explained what they are, and so it is sent to the Committee who they were, although the case may have been taken out, etc. There was a vote yesterday, where all except Porta's council voted with these changes. We didn't vote, because we weren't quite sure what was going on, it wasn't on vote papers, as they said. Then I wondered: " Who gave in? ' A senator knows about this change? If all the more part voted with her, did he know what he was paying a vote?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u48	A respectable president. I'm not going to get involved in any material discussion on this subject, but I'm going to say that I'm sorry. paritaprevir Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir has generally been very careful. There was a request, both in our discussion at the beginning of this case and on the committee, to make some adjustments in the subject. They've been through many of them. I want to say that I really like how it's done. A member of the body has been invited to discuss the matter. At the same time, I'd like to say, in order to prevent any misunderstanding, if any, that it is the full will of both the administrative and the Minister that all regulations related to the case will be presented on the subject. The welfare committee before they're signed, simply because this is a big case and has good reason to eliminate any suspicions about it. I'm celebrating all this discussion. I like it. For a certain senator has given a fine commandment, that there may be a discussion of this matter. Both the Ministry and the Housekeeping Office have also been offered and met by the Committee to discuss this. All the regulations that will be signed on the case I intend to present to the welfare committee before signing them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u49	Mr. President. I'm happy to hear what you're saying. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór, son of Gunnarsson, and his efforts to carry clothing on the weapons, although he is certainly responsible for these tactics. But I'm going to protest that there is some misunderstanding with us. It's not a misunderstanding, it's just an unacceptable job. I wondered, now that we are faced with a debate about a giant case that needs to be workin' fast and reliable, and probably more than ever the need for credibility on the part of the legislature: How do you trust to be available in the discussion of the giant issues that are being treated at the council when such a eating business is under control? It's aism, it's nothing else, hopefully not something worse. And I'm just gonna get to the top. Minister of Social Affairs. It is not the chairman of this matter that announces a meeting on a welfare committee and offers a program there. It is the head of the Committee, whether the majority like it or not. It may well be. That's what the Chairman will do. I wish it wouldn't be as long as this afternoon's coverage is on schedule. In view of this mess, I think that there is a great need for keen attention to members of the Parliament's hall. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u50	Madam President. I'm gonna let myself say something. A senator who spoke just now. Of course, these are bad practices, and I agree and request that there be a recession at a meeting while we were on a welfare committee. I expect the Chairman of the Committee to invite us to that meeting. You see, this was not to be found in votes. There was no introduction, and there was no discussion, so we could not help because we covered this matter well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u51	A respectable president. Of course, it is unusual for transporters to make simple technical adjustments between the 2nd and 3rd districts. and has been made up of this part of the Senate's quality checkout. This is usually a point discovered in a document reading that needs to be fixed in order to keep water. With confidence, I think most of us pushed the green button yesterday. However, if material changes are being infiltrated under the pretext of being technical changes, trust is broken. I'm sorry. The chairman of the case speaks of getting together and discussing the matter in a short time. Those are songs that were approved yesterday. This reminds me of the pension bill we have in our hands here, and is to be discussed for the weekend, where the Economic and Business Committee did not have the opportunity to examine every detail and suggest that it be done at the next legislature. There is a bill to cover the stock tenders that are expected to occur before the next legislature council. So I'm asking myself, Mr. President, are we working here with some of the timers?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u52	Mr. President. We are gathered here to participate in a matter of Congress, not a spirit of Congress. The initiatives this has taken and lies, and has been very thorough in speeches, cannot resist at all, and is naturally subject to the respect of the Generals. To obtain a meeting on a committee that was to address the case after it has become a legal arrangement, it is at best agreeable. Of course, this is the responsibility of the council and its president and prime committee, and it must be handled in that situation and to correct this mistake. I would like to reprove what was presented in the matter of the Prosecutor of the Central Party. The company will not interfere with the action required to prevent the loss of the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u53	A respectable president. I pressed the green button yesterday and said yes to the phrase change. If I had known what I was saying yes, I would have said no. I'm sorry I didn't study it better, but how was I to learn more about it? That's what I'm trying to figure out. This means that every time word change comes, all the alarms ring. To date, one has been able to trust that the word change is just a musical change, but now it is gone. That trust is gone, and now you become suspicious of anything that enters the council. There's another thing about this: It's the law, you can't change it until the next assembly, so we just have to accept it. Now we just need to see what a minister and the government are going to do with this so - called change in wording in the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u54	A respectable president. I feel, maybe it's not quite over yet, but with a lot of wonder to listen to what's happened here and want to be referred to in my previous job. If there was ever a lawsuit before the court that evidence had come up without someone knowing it and that it was judged as being so absurd, I could not really put my arms around it. I think there must be a conclusion here, except that obviously the result will be that all trust in the work will be less said if it is not broken, that there will be a bill where this is corrected, and that the members of Congress receive at least the opportunity to vote for data they know what it means.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u55	Mr. President. I agree with the last speaker. When it was told at a meeting of the council plans that adjustments were made, 3rd C.E. which would be technical, we did not make comments about it. In fact, when the spokesman for the case made a vote, it went through a world of Congress, and this is the case with the vote. I think it's very clear that there was a big mistake, and trust between men is undermined if not what has been said. We senators did not say: " Hey, we're not quite sure we're supposed to believe that this is technical. Give me that and show us. We were confident that it was. But it wasn't. [[The president calls.]] Hence, it must be a bill that makes this work, for otherwise we have open eyes somehow to flush down the legislature meeting, which is, of course, to be told before votes take place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u56	The President has no more on the speaker's list, so most of the world has spoken twice about the President's conference board. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] The president would like to say for this reason that the president himself was on a chair when reading a distribution of this adjustment proposal. It was at midday yesterday, so in itself she lay out as a Senate document for five, six hours before her vote. In that sense, it was time to examine the matter. The President must remind us of that. The members of Parliament have a responsibility in such matters, even if they are not members of that committee, to investigate the right to vote. To say - if the president gets a good sound - the president concludes with this discussion that there was a mistake here. Here, the proposal to introduce the members of the welfare committee to the authorities was mistakenly introduced. The mistake has been acknowledged, that it sounds, of the person involved, and that the committee come together to discuss the matter. That's why the President is celebrating. [[For example, consider: What should be the result?]] The committee will likely consider whether this was a material error, whether the bill has changed for the worse, or whether the result is possibly an improvement or is neutral. That will be the subject of those who review it. Of course, the committees have the right setting to work with and correct such issues. Hence, it is often directed to the president or prime committee that these things happen to them. But it is difficult to see how the committees themselves should be responsible, since they are independent of them. Likely, all of us agree that we want to be helped to avoid such mistakes. It is also good and important that they simply be recognized with humility and cooperate with it. Nevertheless, at the end of this series of discussion, the president wanted to say that his opinion - this was mentioned some 37 - year experience - that it is generally here at the General Assembly in general. In general, people do their best to have their case as well and to be as well equipped as possible. And how delighted the president would be if one day people spent the same duration and 45 minutes rejoicing and commending one another for what is done well at the General Assembly! Sadly, they rarely want to be heard, but there is much energy to talk about failure, where failure is a failure. Of course it does, and natural, the picture of the Council that everything here is in custody, but it is not, fortunately. In general, this is a good job, a good law, and everyone's doing their best. It is important that we not forget for the rest of the day, even if we sometimes have to talk about something to do with it. The president does not comment on this in himself, but he would rejoice if such a discussion was more balanced and, on rare occasions, gave commendation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u57	President. Now I ask the press to listen. Yesterday's news showed that there was a mistake about how a case from a non-party economic and business committee was introduced. Mistakes were made. In the news, this mistake is thrown on everyone like a blanket. It was a mistake for the U.S. president to have not studied it and presented it to members of Congress and to know if there was opposition to the matter. This must be mentioned by the media. We're all making mistakes about this matter again. No, it was a mistake for the head of the administration classes in this politics to ignore the physical change and call it a technical change. But now everyone agrees that this was a material change. Whether this was a small or large change, it was a material change, and the committee must be informed, to be examined and considered by the Constitution. It's got to be informed. Yesterday's failure was the president of the Generals, and today the mistake is a member of the council. This needs to be made clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u58	The president does not admit to any mistakes on his part yesterday. He did a thorough review of that case last night, and I think there was a misunderstanding that went up to the President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u59	A respectable president. I can agree that, of course, I should also review that here is generally seen and generally careful work, and my criticism was at least not stated in a way that was directly wrong or that some intent was behind them. On the other hand, when we meet at this stage to discuss basic issues, major issues, and key economic measures, we will have five days to discuss a matter that the board itself has had in preparation for months, that the procedure is, of course, meant to fall to making a mistake here. I don't think there's any point in increasing the respect of the council if the wish is that they can't be questioned. Then perhaps it is a question of how that criticism or conversation, the upbuilding conversation, is presented. But criticism must be endured.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u60	Mr. President. We're here to vote for a powerful labour market operation. They are facing the group of unemployed who are in a difficult situation. We are extending six months of income - related unemployment benefits, which are of utmost importance. We are supporting people who are unemployed, so they can study and strengthen their place in a job market, which is also extremely important. We're helping people who have gone back to the workforce with the support of unemployment improvements. We continue to work hard to support the people who become unemployed, but it is very difficult to be in that position. These actions do not indicate what will be done thereafter. This is a major step in dealing with unemployed people in today's troubled world.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u61	Mr. President. All the operations that took place. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir listed benefits. But it's a shame, and it's just a shame, that in the bill, there's not one masquerade on the worst of the people, i.e. the 12,000 persons who need to support themselves on basic non-employment. They are not mentioned by the rulers. Likely, the governments feel that the unemployment benefits are sufficient for the group that needs to sustain themselves at 243,000 k. by tax. Mr. President, I think it's a great disparagement for government and government officials to treat this group like this. And here we go.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u62	A respectable president. As we have seen, this case works out in terms of existing laws, which is why I'm here to back it up. On the other hand, to do more, and to make some things different, we must mention that the subject in its final picture reflects a lost opportunity to do better. I am convinced that the committee could have agreed on this if she had had more time. I think it would have had more time if in general there was more ambition here for doing good work than quickly returning it. To that end, I support the situation, but I hope that the opportunity will be better when more cases arise to cope with the epidemic. Of course, it is true that this is not the only matter, and of course it is true that more will be done, but opportunities will be made better, and we should make use of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u63	A respectable president. There are many very good and important things in this matter, and I'm afraid that the government is not prepared to increase further notice, trust, and a safer environment, especially for the most difficult groups. In that group the number will increase, that group will increase. It would have been more dramatic if we had to make it, not just six months, but take up earnings of unemployment. It's not an invitation, it's based simply on the evidence and the indications presented in the review of a financial body but also also on the fact that Iceland's Sellabanski says that subjugation will be harsh and difficult, but it will take over a certain amount of time. Once again, I feel that well - being is great in the government, that it is in the wearer, instead of showing vision and prowess and using every opportunity to put your arms around people and give them a measure of confidence for a long time, but not for this short period of time, always a month and a month at a time. [[The president calls.]] I will, of course, vote with this case, but I hope we can win even better in the next year for exactly this group that will have what is most difficult. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u64	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. The welfare committee for all the work on this matter and that it is here for a vote. As we have discussed, this is not the first action we will take in the labour market, nor will it be the last action. In today's uncertainty, we find it very difficult to make some plans because we don't know what happens tomorrow about the virus, the transmissible infectious system, and other factors. It is one of the highest powers in the government to be ready to act quickly, ready to deal with situations, and ready to cooperate with the most impact on the authorities. This is true both for the job and for the labor movement and for the union. When this case was introduced, I said that it was a step we needed to take now. There are many good things to do in this, but we will need to do some ongoing conversation and cooperation over the next few weeks with the labour market partners for the next few steps. [[The president calls.]] We will need further action on autumn days, in October, when meetings meet.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u65	President. The bill we're discussing here is fine, as far as it goes. Still, it is too short if we consider the time it is due to take, and time is running out. It's pretty bad to stand here and watch it at the top. child - care minister leaves behind parents of chronically ill and severely disabled children and their rights to pay for an entombment. It's pretty lame to see all the fences that are set up about what is called study an opportunity. It would have been better to increase the number of those in college to the point between them and those who can take a student's loan. There's an unnecessary complex level, and unnecessary complications are being entered as a result of those who are completing their operations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u66	Mr. President. We now vote on the action required, unfortunately, at this time of the pandemic, to catch those most difficult in Iceland, our rich country. V.E.G. Social Affairs said the government was having trouble making a plan, and it's clear. But we do know that the 12,000 who are now on a basic work basis need to choose every month to select the bills they trust in to pay, and they will not allow their children to eat that month. We also know that parents of long - suffering and disabled children need to figure out how to explain to their employers that they cannot work in that month and that the government has decided that they should bear the harm. But the government says that it is difficult to make a plan, and that is clear to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u67	Mr. President. The film's becoming clear. It is no longer that we are in the position we were in during springtime. The prophecy of the World Bank is in place. We have the opinion and review of the financial council. The film's becoming clear. It is blessed, however, that in this difficult and difficult situation, which involves a massive, inconsistency blow, there is a positive sign that the situation may last a short time. In view of this, it is not just your heart, nor is it human response to want to react, which makes you want to build this gap for the people and businesses in your country, but it is economic responsibility. I find it sobering to think that even though people in this room are not listened to the arguments of experts who are participating in the public talk, they do not listen to them. It is sobering to not want to go the way that is economic responsibility; to build the gap for the people and businesses in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u68	President. Here I conducted a talk in the same part of the program after 2nd. I talked about taking short steps, but they're important. As a result, we're paying Piratar votes with the bill. But in the bill, there is a lack of vision, a comprehensive view of the government's actions in Covid. I feel that there is some lack of understanding of the social situation and the inability to look to studies that have been carried out elsewhere in the world that are not in harmony with the ideological charges that exist in the government on the economy and how it works. I think it's a sin because we're missing out on an enormous opportunity to put their arms around the Icelanders in a way that doesn't cause people to fall between ships and docks. There's an enormous number of casualties. It costs us, and not just now it's economic, i.e. It also works against growing economic growth and rebuilding the economy, but it is also a future account, that people are in poverty, having trouble. [[The president calls.]] Stress and uncertainty are an account into the future, and we are missing the opportunity to hold these people, to watch our people so that we will work together in the future. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u69	A respectable president. It's all right. It's a decent bill that goes through here. It could have been great, absolutely major, if it would have taken care of anyone who needed it. Sadly, though, people are being left behind; artists, parents of long - suffering children, and others. It is frightening to say to these people: You are to remain penniless, who have been penniless for a long time and are allowed to stay. I've got it clear that no one in this room wants to be told, "You're supposed to be out of pay for a few months. " We should not offer it to anyone. I will support the case for the people it works well for. But it sucks to know that a group is left behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-09-04-139.u70	Mr. President. No doubt, through all these horrors, so many words have been used in this council hall, with uncertainty and forethought. Management personnel have used them to illustrate the importance of providing SMEs with a need. However, their uncertainty has already used them when it comes to concern over the money of the state and how the epidemic develops. What we have to do, however, is to ensure that homes also ensure forethought and eliminate uncertainty in their homes. Later, we can talk to a prince about the level of things that can work against one another when it comes to paying off money. But right now, we have to secure people who now have to live on the lowest wage, the lowest possible benefits, someone who's looking out. [[The president calls.]] And it sucks, Mr. President, that the proposal to raise basic employment benefits should not be accepted for the next 12 months. [[The president calls.]]
