ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u1	Borist has a letter on the revocation of Congress. Guðmundur Inngi Kristinsson calls a question again. 330, 297th matter, waiting for mental health or rehabilitation measures.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u2	Mr. President. Norse cooperation is the cornerstone of Iceland's foreign policy. Norse cooperation is not just a foreign matter; it is of great importance to the entire population of the country and the country. It is fun to remember all the Norwegian partners that are operating around the country ever since the early part of the last century, their friendly partnerships in rural society, chorus tournaments, sports events, etc. Implementation of administrative barriers is the red strand of the Council and the Norwegian Minister of Ministers and the help to integrate the environment into the world's territory, i.e. that the people of the north can freely move between the countries, study and employment, and obtain rights regardless of their country, e.g. the right to public service and the right to work, so to speak. Despite the unambiguous benefits of Norwegian cooperation and positiveness to this point, the current senators, journalists, and others who regularly deal with the Norwegian language in one way or another are not well acquainted with the work. They do not realize the role of the Council of the North and the Norwegian Ministers, however, and the role, for example. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There may be a general lack of discussion on the Norwegian case. This is especially true of the General Assembly of the Icelanders. We should discuss more about Norwegian affairs here in this hall. As part of the Norwegian partnership, we should also be more diligent in sharing what we are doing, both here and elsewhere. The president of the Swedish Parliament has recommended the formality of the Council of the Northern Parliament. An interesting idea in my opinion, and it's gonna be exciting to see if it gets a base. The above has played out the role of the Council of the North, 2020, with the vice president of the United States at the time. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter by her side. Our roles ended this morning at the last meeting of the Presidential Committee of the Northland Council, but Denmark receives the Presidency of the Council for a year. That's when Iceland's friend Betel Haard will lead the Northern Council of 2021.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u3	A respectable president. I want to talk about courage. Since the fall of the Covid epidemic in March, our courage has been tested by all of us, willing to face the global threat of society. It takes an accusation to think in solutions and to engage in unprecedented and costly action, but just then courage is vital. It spreads and unites people. As I quote the leadership of the Agency, I so agree that our guide in these days must be courage, persistence, and persistence. In the United States alone, the government immediately in March decided to provide large sums of money, to invest in the interiors, and to ensure the survival of the people. About 10% of the land's production has been spent so far. The state funds set at the beginning of the epidemic are essential to the reaction. While U.S. debt was about 100%, debt was only about 20% of land production. The Icelandic economy, in turn, has every opportunity to regain its original status. Much of the government's goals have been achieved. The health and education system has passed the trial and the worst economic forecasts have not been followed. But now it takes continued courage, persistence, and endurance to complete the journey and make sure of its port. The General has played a key role in bringing the operation forward, and I especially want to commend the most successful members of the council. There are particularly members of the budget, economic and business committees and the welfare committees that have discussed a number of Covids, although no committee has been left out at work. I believe that, under the leadership of many others, a financial committee is born. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, the son of Thor, has done a mighty task during the year, but it can be said that the committee has been off duty since the crisis struck us in March. Come on, let's go.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u4	A respectable president. Forecasts, celebrations of light and peace, as well as the increase in consumption and the follow - ups, heat, and waste. Like Christmas, food in the Western world may never be as thrown out of the same amount of food as it is. Dans have calculated that in December this land is about $13 billion for food, and we are likely to be no afterboats. Waste waste and waste disposal is unacceptable in this country. The common people, however, are willing to do better than they need guidance. There, governments need to be in charge with the alleged ambitious environmental goals. It's a priority to coordinate an assembly of waste and his treatment of the whole country, that we do the same. It is good, but it is not enough that the city's village has a large - scale geothermal for its capital. Waste ends garbage every year that could fill up the Hallg Tower 200 times. The rural areas of the country are in trouble with their garbage and are doing this at their own conventions. Waste from many rural communities is driven into the traditional pit of a prick's hole in Migorm. There's been some way to increase prices, but the local community, the town town, does not really exist. Western ears, e.g. to consider a treatment incinerator. Farmers are so small that they do not have the ability to choose the best options for the environment. Still, we must not lose heart. No one's allowed to go to the Christmas cat. But let's think about what we're doing. For example, if each family put three Christmas gifts in recycled material, the save - save paper would cover nearly 40 soccer fields. We may also want to consider the purchases for the holidays. We're just shopping for Christmas days, not for months of siege, and the camp opens up second or third at Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u5	A respectable president. The microphone I speak here in, the light, the counter, the computer at its height. The computer they use, the computer they use, the Internet they use to monitor these talks - all of this is the result of a scientific approach. We take a scientific approach as part of our community as well as anywhere else. Fortunately, when it comes to the public's view of science, Iceland is doing well because it is the key to a successful society in today's world. On the other hand, we may tend to view science as a special subject that belongs only to experts, just as a person goes to a specialist in case the car breaks down. But the scientific method, a respectable president, is more than what is known at any given time. It's a procedure, it's a method. It is a approach to the search for truth itself. So that the city, the voter, can make an informed decision either with the governments or to decide what rules he will vote for or what rules he will take, the key is that the public has at least minimal understanding of this scientific method. It is of interest that while the majority of Icelanders accept the theory of evolution as the fact it is or follow a disease - control principle because they are based on a scientific method, it is still, every time that the discussion comes, an amazing deal of talk that reveals how sensitive society is to absolute bullshit based on nothing but imagination or emotion or anything else that can get in the way of people at any given time. If you know a scientific method, you don't have to know all about a particular science. But knowing the method itself, understanding why it is important and how it works basically is not just a matter of question as to which experts we should look for when something is wrong or something else, but how we draw conclusions, how we understand the world in which we live, including how we choose. [[The president calls.]] It's a fundamental, respectable president, and I hope the community continues toward a scientific approach.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u6	The president asks why. The speaker and the next speaker's experiences show that the clock in the speaker's office does not count, but the timing for the president is okay, so the president will keep people in touch with the material.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u7	Mr. President. Christmas is getting much shorter, and we, like everyone else, have a lot to think about. It will be part of your routine; food purchases, Christmas expeditions, and so on, and we will also try to enjoy ourselves. Yet, it is clear that in a way that differs from what has been done. The most beautiful memories are about family and friends, and what really matters in the big context sometimes wants to be forgotten. Unfortunately, Christmas is a concern for too many people in Iceland. As difficult as that may be, we cannot and must not ignore the fact that there are thousands of people living in poverty, including thousands of children. These people cannot take advantage of necessary medical care, they do not send their children to leisure activities, they even have to refuse to buy food and gifts, and they have to pay rent. Happily, though, poverty is not an inevitable reality, and governments can have a major impact on how they do things and how they are affected. Therefore, let us not forget those who are pained, forget the values that create a just society, and contribute to the elimination. And because of what? I just have to say that when it comes to this particular case, the Líneik Council has Sævarsdóttir to show enough courage. Let us, though, do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u8	Mr. President. In the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, December 1. is not recommended. led to the judgment of Iceland's Supreme Court and General's hearing on bail. It appears mainly to be about whether the rational support of the Supreme Court is given by the judges of the Country Court to be duly duly duly duly duly duly appointed in a legal and administrative sense. Interestingly, in the judgment of the Supreme Court of Human Rights, we will discuss how it is appropriate for the Allied Council to vote on a particular matter. Mr. President. I am not aware of how the European Court of Human Rights can handle the work of the General. Each member of the general body could bring about another project. This means that the vote was carried out by Generalis decision, the democratically elected representative of the nation's Supreme legislature. Mr. President. I am told by someone who is familiar with the search that an example of how the European Court of Human Rights spoke in such a way to a legislature in Europe. May I remind you that Iceland is a peaceful and successful country. Iceland is a democracy and a state of justice. Iceland is a culture, and this is a highly educated and talented nation. Iceland is an ideal state that is deeply rooted in international cooperation. I am not aware of how the European Court of Human Rights can speak to the highest authority of the state in a manner that is being judged. Mr. President. As was said on the shortest chair: No one tells the General what to do. Nobody. I believe all members of the council should unite in protesting the speech of the General Assembly in the Court of Human Rights and on the day of Iceland's sovereignty. I object to it for my part.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u9	Mr. President. The consequences of the crown virus have been greatly evident in the nation's economy, as everyone knows, and even in the case of the people. ... inthecrediting of the crown's gangs. But lately, over the last week or so, it has made it appear that it is only feeling better. The reduction in the craze has been very severe in price prices. It does not seem that if you shop in Iceland, you will have an abundance of benefits by making a dollar of the jewelry that it has done. Now it's gonna be exciting to see if someone will bring back the price when the dollar gets stronger, even though I doubt it. Those dealing with consumer products in Iceland may not have been quite confident. You can even say that. see how the import of agrienvironmental products has been implemented. In this case, toll pay has been shown to be a misappreciative at a recent study. The general public in the country and in homes where unemployment is very common and where there has been a lower number of hands, those handling basic items show responsibility and firmness. Businessmen have also claimed that it is because of the increase in pay they have raised the price they need. Now, Mr. President, as soon as I go to the grocery store, there are probably seven boxes out of ten that have been reduced. I must conclude, then, that since these seven are automatic, the three employees who remain are so paid for such a huge raise, are so much involved in the rise of prices. These matters require careful observation, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u10	V.E.G. President. Likely, none of our neighboring countries, which we would like to compare with us, have asked as much of agrienvironmental requirements for following general competitive policies as in our country. On the contrary, there are widespread variations from them in force. It shows itself there, including to a new report from the Institute of Legal Affairs of the University of Iceland on the basis of competitive agreements between Member States in the light of EEA and EU rights. In Norway, agricultural markets have a broad range of competitive laws. In the 3rd. A competitive song is an exception to Article 10 and 11, which corresponds to Article 101. and 102th pars. In the contract for fishing and farming. The goal is to improve and stabilise the income of farmers. The exception is developed in many places where it allows farmers to make any agreements, e.g. to repair the prices and volumes of misuse by the marketing sector. Marketing behaviour must be in accordance with the laws, regulations, or annual agreements between the local community and the government. However, the exception is limited, since competitive action must be in line with agrienvironmental policies or agricultural policy. It is mainly the farmers who have permission to control the quantity, not to be allowed to work with the competitors. V.E.G. President. Icelandic agriculture is now subject to protection. Over the past year, there has been a record of failures in agricultural management. Britain's eviction from the EU for the coming year is further a fact. Is it not true, then, that at some point, all invitations of tollovate will be postponed so as to review these matters so that all can see the direction to go and the administrations of the government will be guided by a consistent objective?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u11	Mr. President. During this time of the year, it is difficult for many families with low income to make ends meet, and many are pained by family circumstances, sickness, unemployment, and other difficulties facing people, and it is even more tragic during Christmas months when everyone wants to try to make a day of rest and joy, and I don't talk about this truly rich Covid situation. Happily, the number of people who care well in this situation, society, business as individuals, is a part of the human being to do so. Whether it is done in silence or in the air, it is the community responsibility of all of us, but it does not preclude the involvement of our countries and communities to ensure the worst security for them at any given time. That assignment will always be in place, with great responsibility for each government. A number of measures have been taken to support last month, e.g. those involved in housing, tax declines, health-related tax declines, and more pensions to their worst. Recently, unemployment and disability improvements will be improved next year. The decision has been to raise unemployment rates to over 307,000 dollars. the next year, about 6%, as well as 87,000 U.S. jobseekers. in December supplementation and replacements will be extended. In addition, pay increases due to the implementation of children of jobseekers, and unemployment benefits are prolonged. More recently, the leisure activities of children in creditable homes and child - saving boundaries are increasing. Children's benefits are increased by income - control parents, disability and rehabilitation payments rise by 20,000 dollars. In the largest income market, tax-free reimbursement will be paid, $50,000 a.m., in December and December, an increase of 62,000. for those who live alone. We are never at the finish line when it comes to those who live in the worst terms. The welfare community must constantly be on guard against the weakest groups each time, and it can always be done better. - Happy Christmas.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u12	A respectable president. Sadly, because of the length of the application period, there are some regular cases of sexual abuse that have been reduced. In some cases, the duration of the treatment has led to the strict probationary judgment of these serious fractures. We'll talk a lot about infrastructure here in this hall and I'd like to talk about wood and justice. Law enforcement, prosecution, and courts are basics and important infrastructures. They are the institutions of the public to seek their rights, and that is why it is our best interests all to see that these institutions are both professional and professional. My criticism today does not focus on courts or prosecutions. Courts judge by the rule that if the trial takes too long and the defendant does not blame them, this could affect punishment. The judge will judge them with less punishment than he would otherwise have done. That's the rules of rules. The Prosecution then lives in situations where the number of cases increases each year, but not for the number of employees. We're down now, for example. for the increase of the prosecution's case 40% last year. Therefore, these infrastructures need to be strengthened. It seems to me, however, that no particular increase is expected here. My criticism focuses on governments that do not do better with violations than this. All of us are aware of the reality that a low proportion of sexual crime cases are subject to judgment, that it is a great step to take in and press charges, that waiting for the end is difficult and cause for anxiety. Then it must not happen. So I challenge the Minister of Justice and the Government to do better, not because we're talking for some hard criminal bitch, but because we're talking about justice. It's about justice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u13	Mr. President. As expected, my writings on the index point did not bring me total joy this morning on the high-national bill. Already, zealous articles have set me up with populism and ignorance and have overlooked my criticism. But if we look at the underlying factors of the criticism that have come not only from me but also from thousands of others, from a group that has been called the crying of my things, it all turns upside down. The aim is to name environmental protection, but 23rd paragraph. The bill opens a wide range of interpretations of the definition of the perimeter and opens it to any priming plan that the environment minister of that time will consider. Something tells me that this Ministry will be far more wanted by independents in the future if the bill goes through. But nature protection replaces restrictions on freedom of action, as shown in Article 18. which seem to be more inclined to protect people from being able to handle the affairs of other people, especially if they happen to travel differently from walking. I can't figure out what way it's gonna be better than 17. Which is nice. This bill, however, is not being discussed right now, but I realize that the conversation will be very much over the holidays. I ask people to listen to the criticism, it's not out of the air. I just want to end this brief input by celebrating that this epidemic year is nearing its end and there is hope for a better time with future vaccines. It is a product of a remarkable international effort to eliminate and eliminate a disease that did not exist for just over a year's time. I just wish people a happy festival, and hopefully the next year's gonna be better.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u14	A respectable president. It has been a joy to share in many fine work at the council during the past few months and years. A number of the bills and measures made by the Parliament are designed to lighten the attitude of the people in the country during the time of the crown virus epidemic. The government of the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir has worked hard to lighten the country's home and business life. Decades and even hundreds of billions of measures have been taken, most of which have been identified. Not all of them, but most of the suggestions are useful and are tried to reach as many groups as possible, in many parts of society. A respectable president. Later today, I am a guide to the bill for a sports club's payment on pay expenses during the crowning season. The bill is a part of the government's operation to reduce the damage of a pandemic athlete society so that they can resume their activities when the pandemic is over. The big issue in the bill is a modification proposal for a greater proportion of the welfare committee to support the budgets that have been able to dry the last month. And that's about how we get caught. 60% of the workers, players, and trainers who work for the sport. Other employees enjoy the more well - being of a general labour market. A well - being committee has also made it possible that the youth service of KFUM and K and other childhood members will have comparable support under other laws set before Christmas. A respectable president. Clearly, when handling public funds, we need to be careful about how they are handled. In most cases, the government has been very successful in doing so in a just and good way. A respectable president. I wish you and the people of the country happy Christmas and happy New Year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u15	A respectable president. Social security allocation is permitted for management costs, drug costs, hearing bills, electrical expenses, oxygen use, and rent rents that fall outside rents. Children 18 years of age and younger have the right to be seen by the eye-doers. Three years of age and younger people have the right to reimburse twice a year, with a view to reimbursement every year. At that time, children have the right to reimburse every other year. The pay is directed at the concentration of the eyeglass and is in the range of only 3,500,7500 k. on glass, and for stronger glass, visual agglomerates, extra payments are just 500,4500 bucks. concentrations. The parents'cost of wearing glasses may be 40,000 to 60,000 dollars. Is there absurdly high on payment, and no wonder, though these ignominiously low concentrations remained unchanged in what? Another tens of years. In this context, it is surprising that children's hearing aids are fully paid from a wealth rather than glasses. This is nothing more than a gross discrimination, an incomprehensible difference between children and a real misunderstanding of equality. But this is not surprising if you consider the policy of this government and the previous four governments that established this system. The policy is that they put on a grant of their kindness, but they are never raised between years, but they remain unchanged, even for ten years, so that they lose and do not return their purpose. The wealth of money is rich, but the children and the families of those who need support lose. Once again, the government's work on the affairs of children here at the General Assembly is a disgrace. Is it not the time to stop economic violence once and for all, and to have the Christmas gift this year to stop all discrimination?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u16	Mr. President. Our new climate goals are not some sort of state - of - the - field low, as is indicated by the words of some members of the Parliament. They are realistic and ambitious, 55% reduction to a minimum in the next 10 years and a complete lack of carbon exchange within 20 years. Why can I say that? 55% of the target of some countries is in place because our emissions are in the hands of all industry, all companies, all rural groups, and all the public in the country. The higher percentage goals of some industrialized countries that we would like to compare with them are based on the fact that 60-770 percent of the EU's emissions are from energy production, electricity, hot water, and fossil recovery, etc. and is on the hands of a small number of companies in each country and part of the state. There's easier and more rapid recessions there compared to more complex ways to narrow down here, where players are many and small. Our energy production is, as everyone knows, out-of-employment. Therefore, a direct comparison between Iceland and Britain's emissions targets is unsaid and misleading and gives some reason to minimize what has been decided here. All of this, we can take steps larger than many countries into carbon binding and reduction in emissions by promoting forestry, land healing, which is relatively efficient compared to the population of rural areas, so I now do not speak of the recovery of wetlands, an inexpensive and quick-acting approach to carbon balance. I remind you by the end that we should rejoice that developing cooperation has become part of Iceland's climate targets. That is what I call vision, as is true of the government plan Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. We're on the right track.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u17	Mr. President. We're here to vote on three basics, all of which are about a change in sexual autonomy, an enormously important law that we agreed on not long ago. All of these bills have in common to improve and strengthen the legal status of people. I'm proud to be part of a community and to be a member of a administrative body that realizes the importance of these matters and takes pride in having the setting of gay people's affairs as the best with careful management. So it is with great pride and joy that I will vote for these matters today and for the council of the green left.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u18	A respectable president. Here we are going to vote on three cases that I'm going to discuss about all at once. I'm not going to have many words about it other than the fact that this is a matter of freedom. These are three terms of freedom, three of which are all about custody of yourself, custody of your own body, and custody of how you grow in your life. We in the United States support these issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u19	A respectable president. The Pirata House supports these three ahead cases. They are important steps in the rightfulness struggle of gay people who are to celebrate. And thanks to the good work that went on in those cases, for good work within the committee, why. The General and Education Committee, and the work of the senior authority of the case, why? paritaprevir The Steinunn of Þóra Eagle's Árnadóttir. It's been a good time. People are good at this. What a happy day! Pirat's House supports these matters and congratulates all of us on being here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u20	A respectable president. I believe that the majority of us who go into politics do it to have a positive influence on people's lives and change the world for the better. The cases that we are about to vote on are examples of this. These are matters that make the right trans and the Intersex people, especially the right children. How well - prepared these matters were on the part of the prime minister! A case involving atypical sex trait was given much publicity on the committee, and I believe that its payment here indicates that we are moving into the present and ancient generation, and we are blessed to the point that we no longer speak of healing people's sexual traits. People are people. Of course I'll say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u21	A respectable president. It's a good thing to do. I would have liked it more extensive. I would have liked to have it so that no matter what circumstances they lived in, all of them would catch children. There are three cases, and the fact that this case has not been established that children should be circumcised for religious reasons, that I feel completely ridiculous, and that we are completely embarrassed. But I support this case. At least this is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u22	Mr. President. It's a happy day. It's a good day. This is an important stage in a fight for rights. This refers to sexual autonomy. The obvious thing is that we are simply talking about self - control, self - control, self - control of children, freedom to be who you are. Because yesterday's media coverage was as if it were then, I thought it was a reason to come up here because it is also a pleasure to see and to perceive that almost all classes here at council support this case, that it is contrary to all lines; of course it should be so in the case of autonomy and rights of individuals. I am very happy that I have experienced that, with exceptional exceptions. I think we should be much more pleased that there is oneness, with exceptional exceptions, about this joyful phase.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u23	A respectable president. I agree with the members of Congress who have spoken before, I support these three cases that we are about to vote for. This is a very important step toward self - control. I'm proud to support the government that puts this matter here before the council. I've been watching the job and planning it for seven or eight years. This work is well - prepared and based on much knowledge gained in the community in recent years. Here we are reaching a huge stage in self - control and medical assistance for children.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u24	A respectable president. The vote we are about to take now is of incredible importance. This step involves increasing people's human rights. It's also about moving Iceland up on the rainbow card, which is about mapping the state of gay people in the world. Because I've been watching this case for a long time in the season, I know it from the past, I'd like to say this here that a board of public and academics has worked very well on this case. She has worked hard and delicately. This is an enormous act of justice for the concerned group and especially for the group of people who are born with atypical gender characteristics and the right of those who have a body of their own.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u25	A respectable president. I support this case, and I agree with what has been said. Perhaps that's why we got so many people up here, and we explained our support to the case that last night's press coverage was something quite different. It's a matter of freedom, it's a huge human rights matter, and it's about the rights of children, and I'm on this whole mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u26	Mr. President. It is not every day that we vote here in the conference hall on matters that actually revolve on the values of society. It is not every day that we vote here in the chamber on matters that revolve around the very right of people to determine their own destiny. The three cases we now vote for are about exactly that; people's freedom to control their destiny and human rights that reflect certain values. I welcome the wide solidarity that seems to be being reached here at the Hall of Congress to provide these matters with a series of highways and thank you. A top-of-the-art Board of Education for careful research on these matters and cheering them up. Although we are at 2nd. Having faith and conviction that the Council will accept these matters, I will take a very important step in the interests of freedom and in the interests of human rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u27	The President wants to explain why we have to take a vote on the first of the three cases discussed here, i.e. The second part. There's a 20 on it. 20th
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u28	Mr. President. We hereby vote for a bill to correct a set of laws because of the sexual autonomy laws. This is a legal arrangement, such as a man, a woman, a child, a married man, a married woman, a father and wife, a mother, a woman, a wife, a husband, a married couple, and a husband. In many cases, it is relatively innocent, but in other cases it is not. In particular, I find it difficult to take out the word of a mother in a few branches of penal law, a word established in the consciousness of the people of the country, and in most cases under the penal code, to care for the person who gives birth to a child, the person who carries a child under the belt. I just can't see what it's about what it's relevant to that person's registration or what the person's genitals look like. The person is a prospective mother if she carries a child under her belt and mother when she gives birth. The word "mother " is a beautiful and vivid word, and let us not sacrifice it for extremes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u29	Mr. President. When I first saw this bill, I remembered the preacher's words when he said that everything is vanity and nothing is new under the sun. To tear down has a time. One thing is certain, you are no longer surprised by the government of Independence Company, forward and left green. You ask yourself, Mr President, what's next? Yeah, next time. Next, it will likely be a bill from the Independence Party, once a conservative class, to turn the most beautiful English word, a midwife, into a light person.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u30	A respectable president. I had to come up here and say that this is not a sacrifice of the word, Mother. The word will remain in our tongue, and it will remain available for use as I have used it in this speech, Mother. It's still there. This is a practical change that involves allowing people to change their gender registration. This does not change that a person who was once a woman and now is a man, will be able to walk with a child and give birth to it. Outside of that, there are certain penalties, and if we want a law of penalties to be equal to everyone in Iceland, we need to change it this way. This is simply a practitioner. This is not the norm that our language and mothers will remain here. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u31	I wondered about this transformation of law for the change of 192rd. A penalties that add to the punishment if you distort the evidence of a father or a child's quickness, e.g. with false authority report. This is a time to remove the word "fatherhood " and" anger. " The words were originally to be written to a person's parents'status, but now they are merely a parent's status. In both cases, it seems to me that there is a completely inadequate change. The word "parenthood " comes into my mind, not to replace the words with anger or a father. As in the past, it is going too far, and it can be said of extremes in this regard. The penalty is to place a stone on the street of the authorities when they search for a father or the quickness of a child, which has been meant by a biological father or mother. If we are referring to something other than that, we are legally involved in some form of mass, and this is not to speak of proving blood ties between a mother or a father to the child.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u32	President. We are here discussing the worst case of this government, a typical government government case, which is based solely on names and declarations of goals, not content and consequences. That's why we've heard this allegation of human rights and other paradoxs when considering this matter. It's not about protecting lnex people and it's not about trans-people. It is about removing children of course and the curative cures that have been successfully performed, even for decades. The argument is often farfetched, even referring to a international contract against torture to justify the failure of children to receive health care. This suggests that in recent years many hundreds of parents and doctors have broken their children's rights by performing operations or other cures that have greatly improved their quality of life for life. It is amazing that such ancient and extreme cases are being run through at the World Council in 2020.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u33	Mr. President. It's a happy day today at the General Assembly when, if we like, we accept three bills that include important compensation for gays, especially for trans and intersex children, the right to freedom, right to autonomy, human rights. I have to say, though, that I've had a bit of a panic to observe the media class lawsuit in these matters, including Here at the Senate Hall. It can only be understood as human contempt and as a denial of the existence of a trans and intersex child. Fortunately, this presentation has not reached any flight, of course not. There is a great and strong greater part for these important justice issues here at the General Assembly today, for how our community would be headed if we excluded certain groups, our most vulnerable groups, from enjoying human rights, their same human rights as we believe ourselves to be our own? [[The president calls.]] I'm proud of the big part of the council today. We'll say yes when we get back. Fortunately, we say, and finally we say. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u34	Mr. President. Last year, when there were laws on sexual autonomy taken care of at the General Assembly, the subject was actually left behind in this bill, and a minister was assigned to seek compromises between different viewpoints that had been observed during the conference discussion and the Senate committee on these topics. When the bill was prepared, representatives of the gay community, health - care professionals, and other experts in these fields came together and the result became a compromise that we are doing today. So there are different viewpoints and compromises that have been drawn together, and I think the discussion here yesterday does not reflect the nature of the case or its conduct in any way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u35	A respectable president. I just wanted to say how grateful I am to live in a country where only one category of eight is involved in fighting for the unfortunate cause for which the Central Party is fighting for this pontu. Of course, one member of a different body of elders does not vote for or even in return. It is like it is in large categories, especially those with great heritage and conservative history. However, the rest of the Council agrees that this is a step forward. At the beginning of this discussion, the problem arose. 8th yrs South, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, spoke and asked, after his very strange point: What next? I'll take it, Mr. Honorable President. Next step. Next step is progress. I hope the Central Party is just waiting for it and thinking their way in the meantime. In the story, some views lose and others win. This view is winning, and they will lose, once again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u36	A respectable president. It's a tragedy to listen here for a case. A senator and president of the Middle Party, Sigmundur Davíð Gunoug's Gunnlaugsson. It's getting out of bed. This isn't about human rights, it's not about freedom, it's about government. Ask the people who are at stake. A senator, whether this is human rights, freedom issues, or government. That's what the Medical Association recommends to be done, the Icelandic Medical Association that recommends this bill, the expert team, the child surgeons, the children's doctors at the Land Hospital? Are they recommending that children be treated with medical help? What kind of bullshit is this? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u37	A respectable president. I want to agree with almost everyone who's spoken today. I'm celebrating the bill that we now vote on and that this is a big day. It's a day of human rights. I'm here for Christmas. I'm fine. I'm going to interpret the Middle Party speech as a misunderstanding, not a human contempt. I think the men who spoke here yesterday don't really understand what they're saying. And I join with the last one who spoke, who did. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon, and I have to say for myself, and I think that it may be a reasonable conclusion, that once we have been considered by people who have experience and knowledge of the things involved, you must take more note of it, after years of work, than a few members of the council here who cry loudly but do not seem to have studied the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u38	Mr. President. How grateful I am for the great solidarity here on this issue today! This is very important. These are basic human rights for children. I am grateful that there is only a tiny group of conservatives who are moved to protest against this important matter. I think somehow we'll all be bigger to be able to come here and discuss this and be able to cooperate with this great justice for this group because it's human rights. Those who speak against it are more specific than human rights. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u39	A respectable president. Human rights have developed, and it is not too long since the self - determination of children was accepted internationally by the United Nations Children's Convention. That covenant we have validated. That covenant acknowledges the self - determination right of children, also over their own bodies, and we are taking a big step in protecting child's self - determination rights over their own body by means of this bill. The time may have passed by some members of this hall, but we, a lot more things, are fortunately aware that children have a self - determination right over their own bodies, just as adults do. This bill is merely taking a big, strong step to further respect the basic rights of all children. I am glad that there are many of us there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u40	A respectable president. It is important that progress on human rights is taken from safety and vision, and that is what the Council is doing today. Happily, there is a retreat, not a rule, but an exception in this chamber. The retreat and fate of the Middle Party are exceptions, not order here at the Hall of Congress. Children should be entitled to respect and health, as well as to those born with an atypical gender. I dismiss what has been said here that children are being denied medical care because it is wrong. I want to thank you very much. The prime minister for vision and security in putting the matter into practice, and the greater part of the Generals for supporting it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u41	President. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Magnússon, president of the General Commission, who did not participate in the discussion itself, shows up here and shouts over the hall: Ask the relevant ones. But asked why. A senator or any above the hundreds of children who have benefited from action, life - sustaining action, in recent years that they do not have access to in the future? [[Up front.]] Because children who are too young to ask for it themselves, and now they should read their own bill, they must not have actions that in many cases can make a difference in their future. The issues related to genitals and urinary tracts are placed here in a special category where parents or doctors are forbidden to do what is best for the child. [[Up front.]] This is below all caves, Mr. President, and you can see the best attitude in that the main contribution of the Committee was to suggest that it be made quickly to see if the relatively small exceptions to the bill should be excluded, e.g. to give you a chance to correct short urinary tracts. This needs to be reviewed by the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u42	A respectable president. A time had come when it seemed highly radical that women were given the right to vote or to have the right of self - determination. Then there was a radical view that homosexual people should just have the same rights as everyone else. Every leg code has conservative forces against that change. But what's interesting is that when you look at history afterwards, no one will recognize it. No one's ever heard of being there. In the future, I hope you will. The members of the Central Party look back to this time and consider their position in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u43	Mr. President. According to the bill and the discussion of this by the executives, 68 children a year are born in Iceland with birth defects on their genital organs. There are six children a month. It's a world record no one's ever known about. This is wrong. In Iceland, 4,000 children are born a year. According to well - respected medical journals, one in 4,000 children is born with a birth defect on her genitals. So there is one child born a year with a defect on Iceland's genitals, not 68. In this regard, false information is being made so that this evil bill can be justified, which forbids children with birth defects in their genital organs to be treated with the most advanced medical care. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u44	Mr. President. This case is a legal step for a group that had not long received any assistance in their trials, i.e. Parents of stillborn or pretending during pregnancy This group remained well isolated for a long time and had no house in themselves to protect, either with their grief or with their burden. But fortunately, Mr. President, these matters are being addressed. Now they are babies born dead or pretend to be approved to have an unborn child as individuals. It is of great value both to them and to those standing by them. I'll celebrate. I'll say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u45	Mr. President. Lately lost a lot of social awareness of the grief of parents who lose children during pregnancy or birth. Grief has come from the shadow she was in in the community. This, although systematic, is part of accepting this loss and grief. On the other hand, there are other sides, and I think it is of great importance, and I'm glad that it's taken place in a committee program, that there will also be an opinion of going further, i.e. to admit the grief of the parents who lose a child during pregnancy, after 18 weeks of pregnancy, as it does in another law of law. In that situation, they are entitled to a maternity clinic. And the publication of a social security number would have a pragmatic effect on parents that they could be better able to pursue that right, but it would also bring a certain recognition of the grief experienced by these parents. I think it's important that we as a community are behind such a change when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u46	A respectable president. I support this case, and Porta's council supports this case, which is an important step in past errors against disabled children saved by the government. I would like to say, though, that this is a failure, and I would have liked to see a more progressive proposal and a larger ring passed around all the individuals who have been treated badly by government agencies or private homes that were saved by the government. This is to a degree accepted in a committee program when it comes to children living in private homes. That's fine. There is a large group of non-children who have been saved by public institutions and who have been treated badly and are not available at least not soon, doing anything about it. Now, some kind of initial opinion is beginning because of the bad reports of Eagleholti, but I would have felt that the forwardness and the greater improvement in taking it all at once and acknowledging that we are all responsible for human rights protection and that the public's tolerability is generally equal to justice. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u47	Mr. President. We deal with a bill to correct a law on fair-to-be reformation laws for crimes in institutions or households under law (finishment). There are groups that fail this bill. The number of children saved on the side of the government, e.g. child welfare, private homes. They were arranged there by the government. It is important to find a way for that group to get a solution in a similar way to the large group saved in public institutions that revealed, Mr. President, that in many areas a pot was broken, so to speak, all reproach could be called in the nation's history. This case cannot be called the end of a showdown until the story of these children has been told.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u48	Mr. President. Here we are votes for fair compensation for disabled children saved in institutions or homes driven by state or rural groups. I think we're all supposed to celebrate. We now have funds for this, and it is very important that this group does not suffer or wait for what has been killed here and for children who were saved in unrecognised homes, despite being saved by government agencies such as Children's Protection Committees. This has been stated in the Committee, and it has been published in a report that was conducted around the reasonable improvements in its time that it might be reversed and that there are many causes of variation, including. is traced to a committee study on this subject. I don't like that we had the group waiting while we were waiting for a report on all the others.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u49	A respectable president. Here we are votes for fair compensation. Here we are votes for past mistakes. We can't control everyone, it's worse than that, but at least this is one step at a time. But let us be taught once and for all. That was a requirement made by the Microcracy, and it was due to be set up on December 13, on the legalization of the United Nations Convention on the Issues of the Disappointment. Why don't we get going to set things right, so we don't have to be in this situation in the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u50	Mr. President. Of course, I support this matter and think it is of good things. I'm glad we're over this today, but I'm gonna join them. Councilmen here have spoken. I would have liked to see more protection and recognition of the ill - treatment of adults who have gone forward and reported that they were being treated badly as children in private homes where they were placed on the side of public contacts. If this bill had been assured even more carefully here and now, we would have protected all the children saved by public authorities. But I hope, despite the fact that the bill's headline calls for a final show, that we can still go on the road to renovate the past. It may also be in harmony with the issues coming from the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs when we are reviewing all the laws that concern children and their affairs. [[The president calls.]] I believe in this, but I would have liked to see further defense.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u51	A respectable president. Slowly we are facing what has happened to us in our history. We are paying them fair compensation and to the families of the one who has suffered the wrong attitude toward our fellow citizens. This is a fair matter that we in the United States support, of course. I agree with what has been presented here on the need to expand this further to those staying in private homes. I would like to give special attention to the National Society's contribution to leading this case and to get us to the place where we are today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u52	Mr. President. In the United States, we offer two adjustments to this bandorm, which is about one thing and another about taxes and fees. First, we offer insurance free year for the smallest companies and the quick discount for the mediums. That is an action that would be important in our resistance to employment in 2021. We also suggest that child reform is actually to balance the status of the children with those who do not have children, and this replaces the suggestion of the greater part that child insurance will start to interfere with minimum insurance. We will vote against the change in the majority of the segment's discount criteria for carbon dioxide emissions decisioning trucks, which is out of proportion with government climate policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u53	Mr. President. My first part is me, and I'm a member of the Committee to Reunion. We'll make one move. We'll make a crucial attempt to achieve a reduction in the cost of food prices, that the tax will be temporarily reduced for one year, from 11% to 6%, but, as everyone knows, as well as the nondividation of the products of the food sector, has been exposed to a large amount of unreachable supplies. This is a very important part of any effort they might make to make it possible for these companies to accept them when they can begin to entertain tourists and other visitors.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u54	Mr. President. We are in a deep business crisis, and I'm sorry, it bites people very badly. These people, and the whole community, depend very much on us creating and making most of our jobs. Of course, we need to create jobs with the government sub-funded institutions, as well as with private companies all over the country. This can be done with a reasonable motive. This proposal suggests giving enterprises 2 billion. K. A discount on insurance bills next year. It would then be insurance free for all the smallest companies, but it would be a considerable bit bigger for them too. I hope this is a deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u55	Mr. President. With this suggestion, we suggest that pediatrics remain unsatisfactory at monthly rates of up to 410,000 dollars. per month. We suggest a corresponding increase in the height, where child reform is no longer paid. It is a step we would like to take now to match the status of children with those who do not share children. We look to the Norwegian states by example in this regard. However, the majority suggest that child - welfare changes begin to be limited to the minimum insurance that will be 351,000 in 2021 and that child support is a kind of poverty grant. We need to change this, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u56	Mr. President. Because I know it's a lot to look past a dog. I just want to remind you that here we're paying votes to temporarily lower the tax, a merit tax, which is to be paid off restaurant business from 11% to 6%. I have previously reasoned on that, both in this discussion and in the second. the status of the caterer, which is very bad, and this is an attempt to help the sector in the resistance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u57	Mr. President. While you are now deeply sympathetic of your company's situation in this situation, that sympathy must not be at the expense of the environment. We cannot support this suggestion to add a discount at this time. We must have other ways of supporting these companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u58	Mr. President. We in the Union would vote against this change, but we would have supported the article as it was in the bill, since it was assumed that these discounts would fall. I'm surprised that the rest of the thing is going to accept this as soon as it gets to the top. The prime minister has just talked about ambitious goals in climate matters, as it calls it, that the members of the Governing Body should decide to motivate in the other direction. It somehow combines incentives, one for buying contaminated cars and one for not buying contaminated cars. That is not in any way consistent with the objective of the government, and I'm surprised that she would accept this as it says here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u59	Mr. President. Here's a suggestion to subsidize fuel cars, and that's what they say for energy exchanges. Some countries are in a bad place to support nonrenewable energy sources with more Kingdom grants than renewables. This is to record the exact system for rentals in this country. For every cent the state sponsors to buy eco-friendly cars, it is suggested that they obtain up to 2 cents. in the concentration to buy in contaminated gas and diesel trucks. At the same time as the government proclaims greater ambition in climate matters, it is more than disproportionately wanting to subsidize fuel cars in the interests of energy exchange. This billions of support to rentals and car importers is much, but eco-friendly he is late, directly working against the Paris Convention's goals. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u60	Mr. President. It's a great case here that we in the United States support. We support the modification proposals of more part, and change proposals 1. Smaller objects. We expect it to be. Councilmen will also support our changing proposals in the United States, which depend on those who receive government strength to resist in 2021 do not practice fraud or theft in the labour market, that they recognize and take certain steps and plan on climate matters, take green steps. We want the workforce to grow healthy and green. We have previously proposed that companies who have an active connection with the tax field will not get the strength from the taxpayers, and we'll make a suggestion about that, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u61	Mr. President. Here is an important bill in which many good things are good, and many things can be supported. During our restoration, we provide a number of adjustments that are important and subject to, in fact, some changes. the point that the income loss target in the bill is too high. This is shown in all comments on the subject. This need to be improved when applying the level solely for the loss of income or status value, i.e. that the candidate can choose what is very important. Then there is a recommendation to make a change in the need for an enterprise not to have a switch or failure therapy. The proposal is that the company can be treated as part of a reorganisation and partnership and company fusion process. But it is obvious that many companies have to go through that sort of transformation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u62	Mr. President. This case, such as so many issues related to the epidemic and the establishment of a Economic and Business Committee, has made significant changes under the leadership of the Chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, who's done a lot of things with the Committee. Here's the suggestion for some amazing adjustments. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson continued or made more changes that would be greatly improved and based on the comments of the visitors who came before the committee. So we will support this adjustment proposal and, if it is approved, support the whole bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u63	Mr. President. This case has developed well in the management of the Economic and Business Committee and is in many ways fine. The exact degree to which this will turn will be seen. But the hope is that it will be a disaster. Yet, the criticism I originally brought to this bill remains that here is another step - by - step event, another one that excludes people who are just below a certain limit. That criticism is still valid. So while I'm celebrating that this bill has become a good bill, there's still reason to stop such a step rule in the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u64	Mr. President. I'm glad we're extending a solid solidarity on this important matter that we're asking for. They are part of the defenses that the government has set up to give Icelandic, Icelandic, commercial, the possibility of sailing through the conditions and disasters involved. We can debate how far to go, but I am convinced that when we look back, when we look at the loan support, the proponents, the income dropbacks, etc., the government will be able to take action that was effective and will determine that Icelandic employment will be prepared to seize opportunities for future life. That's why we agree to this bill here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u65	Mr. President. Billions of dollars lie in taxes that people hide, so they don't have to pay their share to the community. We in the United States view the use of taxpayers as a means to which companies and individuals clearly indicated that they themselves have told about government support. This suggestion is that those who have had an active connection with the past three years with a tax host will not receive this support. All you need is a declaration from the candidates for this support that you do not. But then it turns out that they did not say the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u66	Mr. President. This adjustment has to do with the definition of revenue taken in control of this bill, so that capital income, interest, and rent income, which have little connection with the worker's pay due to a pandemic Korean virus, are not included in the definition, but are the income of products and services.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u67	Mr. President. Here we are paying votes for the percentage of revenues that are to be suggested for those who are able to enjoy strength or not. It was very clear in almost every review that 60% was way too high, and the longest wanted to walk all the way down to 30%. It's not signed here, but suggested, to make it really useful for the most needed, the ratio to be 45% and not 60%.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u68	Mr. President. Here, we pay a vote for a change of motion that pays little attention but is extremely important. This article discusses that enterprises are not allowed to undergo bankruptcy or broken-down therapy but is suggested here to be non-predictive and to be changed so that fragments, which are part of the fusion or replacement process of the operator, are not considered to be systemic treatments according to this protocol. When companies are reorganising and breaking out therapy, it is aimed at saving business and making it more powerful that they do not have to meet the requirements of not being on broken treatment. This is of utmost importance because all of us know that there are times when there are times when there are times when a great reorganization is needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u69	Mr. President. In the a-joint of the conversion proposal, the terms of pay are 3 million per month. This is the same criteria as the extension of the partial improvement process. The proposal to make changes should be to highlight that the requisitions are not intended well for SMEs, even if they have suffered a loss of income. The b-parties suggest that the enterprises deliver emissions textbooks under the established 2019 methodology and then plan how to release for the next five years. It is very simple and accessible. The company takes the position, see what their position is, and then plan to reduce it for the next five years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u70	Mr. President. In the a- and b-compell of the proposal, the change in the revenue criteria is expected to be as follows: Instead of 60-80% and 75%, instead of 80%. It's still the same thing. This is all designed to ensure that more companies are receiving the necessary support. The same story is that all people who have been involved in this case believe that the conditions for the loss of income are far too strict and here is an attempt to move it to a better source so that more companies are likely to get up with these successful clients.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u71	Mr. President. This adjustment is required to match the observed viewpoint, especially from smaller travelers to tourism who have developed an informal organisation, and is expected to be able to select when applying for concentrations whether they are based on a reference value in the month or the rate of operating costs in the month of application. It is especially in these smaller companies that there is a high level of subsidies, so there are fewer employees. This is simply to give humans a choice so that there is no distinction between how workers are conducted in the relevant enterprise. This will not necessarily increase expenses, this will increase your freedom of choice, making it possible for more companies, and especially those I mentioned will be able to enjoy this support.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u72	Mr. President. Now, once again, government officials have done all the good suggestions for the smaller parts. But here's a suggestion that everyone must be able to accept. It is estimated that if a company has received a repair scholarship, then in 2021 it will be known that pay thefts or other employment frauds will have to be returned immediately. If the company has not done this within a month, interest will be lost. Isn't it so, Mr. President, that we're all here interested in developing a healthy labour market and evading a salary theft and a job market fraud? Is it really so that the executives just say, " No, we don't want to deal with them through this business that is stealing money and cheating a job market? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u73	A respectable president. We're about to go to Christmas, and here we are voting on a matter that has been due to some reason. the position of government is very difficult to accept, and it has done everything in its power to prevent it from going through here. It is simply a matter of increasing our flexibility in foreign service. What a tremendous reduction in the power of a minister! It's all very good, and it's a pleasure that we're finishing it now. I want to thank you. Senators who have been very supportive of this bill for their support and work and why. The Foreign Affairs Committee for work on this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u74	A respectable president. Here is a case that describes a tragic lack of ambition on the part of a minister who has been in the Ministry of State for four years now. There was no one who recommended this bill, however, it was a call for a complete reexamination of the law since 1971. That, indeed, would have been brief. We are called upon to attend a foreign service that can meet the challenges of Iceland's international challenges and have to face and participate. There would have been more dignity in taking such an overall review. In my opinion, this matter is a change that is really of little importance to foreign service. I would much rather have seen here a change that would have supported her, made our foreign service much more ambitious and stronger, as I say, to meet the challenges of the future. This bill, however, is not surprising. [[The president calls.]] It describes a complete lack of ambition in behalf of Iceland's foreign service.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u75	A respectable president. We discussed this proposal for the resolution of a contract between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands for Fishing in Iceland and New Orleans by 2021. We've been contacted by the Veturliði Þór Stefánsson, State Department of State and Þorsteinn Ministry Sigurðsson Education and the Ministry of Business and Development. The proposal is to consult the Allegler's warrants to confirm the contract between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands for Fishing in the United States in 2021, which was completed this year. The contract requires permission of parties to fish seafood in each other's legal history in 2021. He expects a mutual warrant for each of the parties to fish the carbons and the Norwegian-islen fjord within the rest of the jurisdiction in 2021. According to the contract, in 2021, the Icelandic ships are free to fish on as many as 1,300 macronauts within the ever - increasing legal history. The treaty went into effect on a preliminary November 23, 2020, and it will now have its final value. The committee and I welcomed it and discussed only the plans to continue working to change the arrangement of negotiations about mutual fishing so that a framework agreement will be made for a longer time. This will help to change various aspects of the contract, such as saying goodbye and access, according to the situation and circumstances of the two parties. I'm going to have a personal view in this regard about contracts with the Faeroeses that can be very difficult to deal with when it comes to fishing contracts, whether in Icelandic or in French jurisdiction. I've often been less than just a cousin and a friend who should be between parties. But this is not a topic of conversation with me at this point. The committee and I suggest this proposal be agreed. Hv. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy sat in front of the committee as an audience officer and supports. Others snarl. Councilmen sign this opinion that we recommend to be approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u76	A respectable president. I bring here the employment committee's opinion of bill-to-proceducing legislation on the changing laws on the equation of the costs of the distribution of electricity (superficial increase). The committee has discussed the matter and has brought visitors, including From the Ministry and from the Company Association in cold areas. The committee received reviews and will now discuss the subject and the objective of the bill. The bill presents this change at 3 mg. Section 3. a fix the equations of electricity distribution costs, No. 98/2004, in an equation due to the distribution of electricity, 13% is increased from January 1, 2021, but the price has remained unchanged since the law has passed. 20/2015. The budget of the 1930-K equation. every kilohour will be 0.34 k., and the sum of the equation will be due to an impaired transport of electricity by 0.10 k. every kilogram every year will be 0.11 k. Electric energy expenditures were set up to cover the costs of the current energy supply for public users. According to Article 1. the balance of costs for the distribution of electricity should be paid down the cost of distribution of electrical energy in rural areas if it exceeds the limit of the highest urban volume of distribution, as funds are funded. The dispersible hosts refer to a company that has the permission to distribute electricity in a designated area, such as Article 3. August, No. 65/2003. Today, there are five dispersible reserves for electricity, but in two of them, Rark and the Power farms of the West, large amounts of electricity are distributed to users according to the so-called rural account. Common users are all the national electricity users except major users, as noted with Article 1. the bill of the person who became fixed on the equivalent costs of the release of electricity. The bill's report shows that since the recording of electricity equations in 2015, the costs of electricity distribution have steadily increased to rural areas beyond urban costs. Thus, the need for increased contributions to the interpolation cost of electricity has increased and 1 billion have been reported. missing in addition to the billion that the equation is now paying. The financial programme for the 20211⁄22025 suggests that the aim of the increased equation will be met by the interaction of the increase of the equation and a contribution from the state's funds. The 13% increase in an equation submitted by the bill will take care of the price change from the time the cost was taken up to a total of 130 million. K. 600 million are also expected. K. a contribution to the emancipation of budgets for 2021 The Commission discussed the importance of meeting users with electrical energy in rural areas. The number of users in urban areas increased, and the cost of electricity distribution thus increased to users in rural areas, with negative effects on employment and urban development. According to a bill report, by means of a planned rise in the equation rate and 600 million. K. the contribution of the state funds results in the share of the cost of electricity distribution in rural areas and urban areas from 49% to 85% in 2021. It is estimated that by 2025 the share will be reached by 95%, but at the same time, the need for transport costs can reduce following reaching the maximum cost of rural investments. In a similar vein, the Western Energy panorama and Rarik in their reviews points out that last year's reimbursement increases are due to an investment need but still lack 15 billion dollars. to complete the system renovation. A few discussions were made in the Committee to see if it would be possible to achieve an earlier objective on the complete use of transport costs and the best ways to do so would fall. The committee requested a secret office memo with visual pictures of ways capable of equalizing the cost of electricity from rural areas and urban areas. She considered the pros and cons of each method, but the committee does not decide which one of them was best off reaching the goal. In this context, the Commission calls attention to the Department of Employment and Development of Electricity Transporting, published in 2019 C.E. The report includes the following: so that the difference between urban and rural areas is constantly increasing and the equation does not meet the difference. The Commission thus gives the importance of finding a way to achieve the equations of emissions of electricity from rural areas and urban areas long term and direct them to the government that, on the annual reassessments of various remunerations, the sum of the equations will be added to the price. The effects of a foretold rise in Landsnet In the treatment of the case for the Commission, the Landsnet reported an increase of 9.9% inlets for each year, and that following this, a reimbursement of some dispersible hosts may be expected next year. The joint review of Iceland's Farmer Association, Communicator Parking Guarantees, and Farmer's Satisfaction Company is expressed concern over how the cost-registered Landsnet reimbursed with the increase of the equation process made by the bill, especially for larger users at gardening stations, suggests that no prior contributions to mass costs have been allowed to pass. In addition, the impact of such expenditures on production costs in relation to the aim of significant domestic production growth, as per a review of the manufacturer's farm contract. The Commission reminds us that Power Institute has not confirmed Landsnet's raising request but is concerned that the declaration of requisition may reduce the impact the bill is expected to have on it. The committee also points out that distribution sources are restricted to increase reimbursement, such as 17. The electricity layer, which allows the Power Institute to set their income limits. According to the directive, distribution of electrical energy in urban and rural areas is set to five years and updated annually, based on changes in core users. The committee also reminds us that it is even. The role of the network management board is to keep retails within the framework set and desirable that such increases do not violate government objectives by means of budget management in 2021. In view of the above, the Commission points out that it is important that the speed of work in achieving the full distribution costs of electricity between rural and urban areas and that it is done so that the distribution spending rates do not diminish or eliminate the costs to the equation. While the case was being handled by the Committee, a greater proportion of the Committee's Committee of Economics paid an opinion on the budget for 2021 and added to it. to increase the State's contribution to the equivalent cost of electricity distribution by 90 million. K. plus 600 million. K. ... thebuyoftheweapon. This increase should be sufficient to provide as much an equation of the costs of the distribution of electricity between rural and urban areas from September 1 to the next year without a further increase in equations. Since 2022, the addition is 270 million. K. and these are 90 million. K. Thus, a fourth part of the addition is made on September 1, 2021. The Commission went on to request an update to the Ministry to get up - to - date scenarios based on the increase in the number of legal committees proposed and agreed on a 2nd cover. of budgets. Based on an updated scene 4, which shows an effect on the energy balance of the user (house) by an increase of 13% and the distribution of the dispersibles on the total tax sheet increases, taking into account 9.9% and 690 million increases of Landsnet to dispersible hosts. K. the State's contribution to the expansion of rural development results in further reductions in rural electricity costs without further increasing urban costs, from the estimated 4 before it was updated. The Commission aims toward the government to ensure the financing of the cost of releasing electricity from the next financial programme. In the management of the case, concern over the effects of remuneration was given to users who are not considered major users under electronic law and therefore have to pay an equation fee. Big users, i.e. Users using within 3 years at least 80 GWst a year (at a value of 10 MW), trade with the Landsnet shipping company, and do not pay the equation, since the equation is to be financed by the distribution system from urban to rural areas. It was noted that those in close proximity to major users and aim to the point of having reduced competitiveness as they cannot connect to the Landsnet transport system. Industrial organizations encourage their review of the rules that include so - called intermediate users, promoting further work structure. The organization refers to a work day's memo. December 7, last, to the case where there are five different ways to level the cost of electricity in rural areas and urban areas. At the same time, the organization calls attention to increases in urban and energy-elevating activities at gardening, data plant, steel factory, bakery, etc. and suggest that other functions in densely populated areas are not allowed to subsidize the reductions in emissions of electricity. According to the Committee, the Ministry is working to consider ways to reduce the clear targets of electricity laws today in the definition of a large user with a 10 MW definition. Among other things, there is a view of changes that could include further step distinctions and review of the construction of distribution records and the landnets to reduce sharp limits. The committee considers the bill a step to balance the difference between rural and urban users in terms of the cost of electricity distribution. The temporary condition of the environment is predictable during the need for investment within the network of diffusers and thereafter reduces the need for equal electricity costs, although it would have been preferable to achieve at once the greatest cost of electricity distribution. The committee is celebrating 90 million. K. additional funding for 2021, September 1, 2021, and then 270 million. K. of 2022, but unchanged, with the added goal of reaching as much an equation as possible from September 2021. However, the Commission notes that it is important to consider how the equations and donations from the state funds are compared with the sources that the public host has for the increase in currency, within the fixed income market, so that the target is set up. 1st par. track No. 98/2004, the equation at the cost of distribution of electrical energy, is achieved - an important point. The committee suggests a change in technical nature, which is not meant to have material influence. The committee suggests that the bill will be accepted as part of a subsequent change. Hv. Councilmen Elíasdóttir Fräbjörg Elisdóttir, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, and Sigurður, Páll Jónsson, sign this in advance. Others snarl. Councilmen who sign this opinion are: Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magniesdótttir, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Haraldur Benediktsson, and Njáll Friðbertsson. - I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u77	Madam President. We're here on a bill to correct the change in the law on the equal costs of electricity distribution, No. 98/2004. Like what? A minister of the matter went well over the matter, and we also received some comments from two visitors over the matter. This case may be taken into account. It's not much, but it's important equality, equal to home. In effect, the issue we deal with here turns to equalize people's potential for living and working across the country in the scattered areas, not just in the urban area. It's a matter of equations. Of course, the Group of United States supports this important equality and the main objective of the case, but I gave notice of the committee's opinion. That's primarily because of two things I'd like to make a brief report here. The fact is, the system we are working with is faulty, and this fact has been known for a long time. It's coming even. ..."in the review of the case itself from the Ministry. Unfortunately, an increase in subsidies has been eaten in a short period of time by the exchange fees. I'm not suggesting that these increases were not based on a grammatical basis. Rather, I simply describe a fact. This means that, in fact, too often the subsidies do not pay to consumers to the extent required. Similarly, the difference between a few years and still those who live in the rural area remains in the wake. So it is quite clear, Madam President, that the system as it was installed doesn't work well enough for those to whom it is to serve. So I think it's a top priority to do a clear demand for the Supreme Court. Prime Minister will present real suggestions for change and immediately this spring. This case has been in the system for a long time, and it is long time to pick it up and finish it once and for all so that all the people of the country sit at the same table. Madam President. Already it is clear that there will probably be some rise in the annual registrations, but as mentioned in this article, hopefully they won't be in reality, it will be important that such increases do not work against the goals of today's case. Sadly, though, it is clear that we are not able to cover and change our system by the time of the year. So we choose to support the situation as it is suggested today. V.E.G. Minister said in answer to the 1st. The point is that she's willing to propose to the spring council proposals for change and I challenge a minister to keep it, because as I entered earlier, it is quite clear that this system does not function as it is. When the situation is, it is only reasonable to find another way to reach the objective of the situation that is equal to the possibilities. Madam President. A second but certainly surprise to the committee opinion is that the next financial programme is referred to to to to ensure continued funding rather than simply putting it into the financial program that is now being discussed by a financial committee. So I simply want to direct it to what? Congress members who serve on a budget board to consider whether it could be corrected without much trouble and put it into the financial program. Madam President. I can't describe enough how important I feel about the objective of the matter, i.e. equal the cost of electrical energy between rural and urban areas. It is special even to live next to activation, but it still requires tens of thousands of dollars higher than those living in urban areas. Iceland was blessed at the time to balance the cost of telephone calls between parts of the country. It is up to us to show the same courage in the new year and to balance the cost of electricity distribution between urban and rural areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u78	A respectable president. I'm going to briefly discuss this matter that has been attributed to my members on the committee. I'll sign the committee's opinion on this case. I'd just like to agree with it for a second, though. paritaprevir Elíasdóttir Flanders, daughter of Elias, recently said that this system lacked an even greater degree of equality. In 2015, when I was on a job committee, I added the wrongs of the country to them, especially the rural population, and the difference had become uncomfortable. It seems that there has been a sustained difference between rural and urban populations in this system. We covered this precisely with the Ministry and our leading experts, and there's a possibility that distribution hosts have, for example. ... andI can't see how they're gonna avoid raising their costs and taking more expenses. At least there would be something wrong with the system if it didn't happen. They'll eat up a lot of the money that's supposed to go to balance the cost, so we called it exactly what we did in 2015. What would happen if one currency for the distribution of electricity to rural areas and urban areas were recorded in Iceland? Of course, the Ministry has examined this, and it stated that from time to time, this has been for ten years in the Ministry. I agree with what we've learned here that the time has come for us to finish that matter and see if it can't be successful. There are certain flaws in her that I can totally agree with and show in the evaluation of the impact the Ministry sent us and went over with us. A United currency would translate an increase in urban areas and a reduction in rural areas. Of course, that has been the case. A general reduction in rural currency would be about 30% but an increase in urban areas by 10%, while the total energy cost, electricity and heat would be a 12% reduction in rural areas, which is approximately 10%. $35,000. in a home each year, but an increase in urban areas by 23%, which is approximately 4,000K. every year in a home. Of course, each person sees that there is something that a household's massage would not be aware of each month's performance. The main advantage is that this is a lasting solution, and it is simple, from established goals. This would be, as indicated in the document here, a means of total financial gain by means of a registration of users without national contributions. It is an example to find in oil distribution, telecommunications, and post - mail services. There would be more visualization in the system and more competitive rural and urban settlements, and it is a matter of enormous importance that would balance urban and rural competitiveness. I just want, a respectable president, to repeat in this short speech that it is very important that we go to that job, and preferably immediately, as mentioned earlier, that it will be completed this year to really examine that option and which means that one bill for the whole country will be realized, for the benefit of all. No matter what we try to do about this system regularly, we always lose our brushes down to our heels because the equations tend to decrease and the gap increases between rural and urban areas, the population is decreasing, the cost is increasing on each of us and we have to share the protection that we live in the same country at the same expense.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u79	A respectable president. We're here on a bill to correct the changing of the law on the equal costs of the distribution of electricity, long-range cases, long waiting for that. It's a very important bill, and it's a long time. Surprisingly, such and such discrimination has been tolerated for so long. It's a good little step in the right direction, but it's too short, too small a step in the way of righteousness. They are not asking for carpetings to every building, malbak all over the earth, post office, or bank walking away from the local population, in all camps. No, it is being demanded that light and heat be offered at the same rate for all the people of the country, that the whole nation have natural access to this common resource on an equal scale. These are not small interests for people living in the country, whether in urban areas or in rural areas, and in part this also involves business. We talk a lot about an even biographer in the whole country. It has rightly been said by the bill that high rates of rural electricity are increasingly contributing to the decline of people, the decline in job operations, and the associated negative effects. It's all true. It is natural to think that the differences in electricity costs between urban and regional areas, or where the problem is the most severe, are up to 60% at the time. The amount of electricity for lighting and warming should not be luxury, but unfortunately, this is the case in many countries, and many examples suggest that up to 20% of the household's resources are to be maintained, warm up, and can light. This is completely absurd, but it has been tolerated for a long time. In modern times, electricity is an integral part of each person's daily life. Without it, we do not live the traditional life wherever we live. The government has made this a good term for the entire ultimatum period, but now it's in the 11th hour. That's good, better late than not. As a result of this change, a minister has made a promise to the country that the difference between the electric cost of rural homes and those who have the normal electromagnesium will not be more than 15%. Of course, the claim is that the full equation will be reached immediately. A few days ago, this symposium claimed that it would already be next year, but that is not true. It will not be until at first 2025, and much can happen in such a long way. In the meantime, people who live in the country are sitting in the background. For example, as noted, the country's network has proclaimed a 10% tax increase in theletitary of the scattered population at the end of the year. If those plans become reality, they will be restored immediately. It is shameful how things are going to happen and quite clear that this interaction must be interrupted, this school game stopped. It is necessary to undergo a system modification as noted, including When co-administered, the risk was increased. A senator who spoke before me suggests that this is a common foundation service that should be offered for the entire population at a comparable price but that it won't remember up to 60% by where we lived, there is one currency for all the people of the country. Sometimes it is, Madam President, even so that the source, the resource, is near the cost of electricity. Such a approach is not something that is as inferior, but it is not the concern of this government, as can be seen in this and so many others. In the spring of 2017, the traveling minister, industry, and innovation appointed a group of workers who produced last spring and did a fine work assignment that was to identify potentials and make proposals for expansion of rural transport systems, in fact, focusing on electrical triunes. The committee produced a report entitled The Report of an electric transport group in rural areas, a very useful and practical approach to this discussion, confirming all that has been reported. The committee even tore. There are various ideas on the combined rural manifests as well as the hostilities. It was confirmed, of course, that such measures we are referring to, combined currency, would lead to an equation and to an improved position of consumers and businesses in rural areas. It is disappointing, therefore, that this bill should not go further on for the sake of justice and improvement for all, in fact. The committee concluded in their work that with one distribution bill in the country, with no counterimportant measures, but perhaps several, the largest increase in urban areas could be 15◯17%; however, the reduction in rural areas could be substantial or between 423/43%. Then each person will see the situation and will develop without reproach for many years and always come across the dark side of it. More than 50% of consumers would have an 8.5% increase in this system change if no counter-improvement measures were carried out. This too was indicated in the Sermon on the Mount. paritaprevir Friðriksson, who spoke before. He actually had other numbers, but it all goes down to the same thing. This is a matter of interest, a community project that needs to be done in one way or another. There are ways. They may be more rocky in some way than they are. Of course, it should be easy to ensure that the most common necessities of life, of course, are electrically available at the same level of public service anywhere in the country. Of course, electricity is a part of this, inseparable part of everyday reality, hot and cold water, and I don't talk about price prices and transport services. The official authorities may have come to the point, but they need to be kept in mind as well. Those of us who are older than 20 years of age remember paying special for long - distance telephone conversations and steps in telephone communication. One thing was valid for local communities, one for the capital area, but if people called the country, they had to pay much more for it. Those living in the country suffered great financial losses because of this. Who can think of a return to this system? Isn't this a fair matter? Don't you think it doesn't care about the basic electrical services? Madam President. Finally, once again, this bill, of course, is not equaled at all, and society's elements have already begun their efforts to break up the gap. He who stands here asks, " Will the government condone it? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u80	V.E.G. President. We're discussing a committee opinion with a change in bill proposal to correct the change in law on the equal costs of electricity distribution, No. 98/2004. I was just going to come up here and agree with those who have spoken before me on a general basis about how they view this matter. Me and what. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson is in this matter in advance, and the warning is, in fact, that it does not work that way. As history tells us, and it has been mentioned earlier in 2015 in such operations and it actually went out when other factors, such as now, but it has been shown above that the maps are now, just right away from the years, an increase in Landsnet registration to the dispersal hosts of less than 10%. Here, an immediate rise will overcome this equation for those who receive it. And I agree with what. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, who speaks from experience, has been on a professional committee for years, not as long as the oldest men remember, but a few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u81	Almost.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u82	Almost, says why. A senator and he were on the committee at the time of these changes in 2015 and, I agree, that there will be one simple list of equations that will be considered. Hv. paritaprevir The Brjánsson described it earlier as if in the past with the telephone, when the people had to pay more for their calls because they lived farther from the capital area. So there are all kinds of illustrations that you can say. I wanted to quote one of the reviews I really like. There were many good reviews and most positive comments about taking this step, and I take my mind to that. This review is from the Society of Industrial Affairs, which includes the introductions of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. until, with permission of the highest. President: Investigated, the organization here points to comments as reflected in the memorandum of the Ministry of Employment and Development, the day. December 7th, and published in the file of this case. It explains the advantages and failures of certain methods to balance the costs between rural and urban areas, which include the development of pathways that include increases in urban and much of the total energy paid by those on high levels, and it includes judging the activities of gardeners, data plants, steelsmiths, bakers, and bakers. In general, with regard to such plans, SI fully reverses increased work laws, including all changes in the way of greatly increasing the electrical cost of users. Instead, the organization encourages the government to reduce costs without other activity in densely populated areas. This is exactly what happened to us. paritaprevir There is Ólaif the Ólafur of Ísleifsson remnant, that this is not a good way to balance the expense. And so I'll just keep going: ▪ Given the reasons, and the rest of the above, SI wishes to provide indications for the employment committee in terms of further incentives in terms of exchange costs for electricity and sectoral development, including job activities as well as urban and urban activities. Is the organization expected by electronic law, No. 65/2003, there are two types of electronic groups. On the one hand, general users, i.e. homes and enterprises that are not considered major users, including the user group. The equation of electricity, on the other hand, involves big users. On the basis of these split-ups, companies using a certain amount of electricity are allowed to enjoy a certain economy as big users. However, the use group of electricity has changed over the past decade or since its use in 2003. In the present system, there is little economic advantage for the energy source industry in starting a work that does not depend on the gross use of electronic energy laws and economics provided by them. On the other hand, the organization considers it important to promote a number of activities that use a certain amount of electricity without achieving the lower level of the superpower concept to promote a job structure independent of the operating areas. This would also give electronic companies opportunities to grow and flourish along with the construction of their customers. In order to accomplish this, the organization has spoken of the order of electrical energy thus taking into account the so - called intermediate users who will enjoy using high energy and at the same time contribute to the construction of jobs here. Therefore, the employment board is required to take such an arrangement for further consideration, which should take into account the major users, to change, to be defined in electronic law and to export that concept to the law, in the light of a wide range of users. The organization is actually urging fairness in electricity costs, so it motivates those who need electricity, most of whom are but not equal, even if all have to use electricity and mention impulse twice. That's what I'm saying. I'm not gonna have my case any further. As I said in the beginning, this is a step in the right direction, but I'm concerned that this will end up the way history has shown us so that we need to find a simpler, more efficient process.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u83	Madam President. I just wanted to come up here and be glad we're finishing this process, at least. for now, the equation of electrical energy distribution. It has been shown during the discussion that 2015 was almost complete if I remember correctly. Over the five years, there has been a billion gap in the amount of money needed to equal the distribution. The bill is being suggested to increase, or in fact, from 2015 to some 130 million. Then 600 million come through the budget. There are also 90 million in budgets from September 1, 2021. After 270 million a year, this equation has been fully reached. What is being done here is equal to 49% to 85% of the cost of distribution. So they're taking a big step, and we're gonna make it all the way back in the fall. I agree with what. People who have discussed the need to find a more sustainable way in which the system works properly in the larger context, and we don't have to deal with these budgets as we are now doing in part. Rather, we should try to find a more sustainable solution. Several factors have been considered, and the work of a professional company in the process was toyed with the committee. In the years that follow, we need to work harder to finish these matters. This discussion also shows that there is now a large investment going on in the dispersal hosts, which quickly followed the storm last year. In the next five years, cords must be completed so that they will be placed most in the earth. This is shown to some extent in the price file, but should be completed in time. There's one point that I might want to mention primarily here, and that's the opinion of the committee, which is how major users are defined in the system. This is something that has to do with real employment and innovation around the country. We need to lower limits that define major users who will get out of this expensive distribution of electricity. We need to do it better. This discussion was in progress at the work of the energy policy committee, resulting in the fall. I just wanted to get over it here because it's something that I think is really important to me and we really need to get our heads together to figure out what we're going to do about it in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u84	Madam President. I recommend here to the Committee to conduct a bill to legalize the move-over legislation, No. 54/2020 (prolongation of duration). The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Þórarinn Brynja Örn Þrándarson and Thornarthsson, from the Department of Employment and Development, Elías Bj. Gislason from the Travel Office and Gunnar Val Sveinsson and Baldur Sigmundsson from the rest of the tourism organization. The committee received reviews from the Travel Office, the Association of Tourism, and Peritoneal Protection. The bill suggests this change in travel laws, No. 54/2020, the non-new travel period at the end of 2020 will be extended by five months to 31 May 2021. Travel laws took place on June 23, 2020, but on the basis of these, there are those who will be provided with conditions 1.mg. 1st par. The law of digital 5,000 bucks. Member States which can be used to provide services from version day to date and by 31st December 2020 in the enterprises as defined in 2mg. 1st par. The law. In 2020, the EU's economic effects of a pandemic crown virus and the government's efforts to promote the economic system and reduce negative effects on the economy following the pandemic. Travel is a procedure involving government support, according to the 61st st. The EEA Convention, but with the bill it is being proposed to provide an extension of a government support system already approved by the EFTA monitoring department, i.e. to and by 31 December 2020, on the basis of the criteria set out in the European Commission's message on temporary state support frameworks for the economy due to an ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. On October 13, late June 30, 2021, with the Commission's message, a temporary support for the economy for the current Covid-19 pandemic was extended. The Commission, as it says in a bill report, shows that extending the time period is also announced to the EFTA monitoring agency and subject to its consent. According to financial and economic records, the Agency's precoconceivation process is closed and its informal attitude is established that the extension of the time proposed by the bill is consistent with the EEA Convention's State Support Directive. Personal protection, in its review to the Committee, draws attention to the Agency's decision, following the media coverage earlier this year, to initiate initiative in the processing of the personality information carried out in the application that can be used for the use of tourism, including on what information the application was able to access on the host's cell phone. Don't wonder when that check will be over. In the reviews and for the Committee, the Travel Office and the Group of Tourists expressed joy with proposals for the extension of the period of travel. Travel has had a very positive effect on the travel of Icelanders within the country during the summer, and it has been a significant support for travel services, whether by direct revenues of travel or by subsequent incomes. Inevitably, the use of transport has reduced this fall due to the Covid targets and therefore it is important to continue in the treatment of tourism during the winter. The committee was advised that there can be a complete monitoring of the details of the use of tourism on the transport board in a travel agency's website. That's where even the two of them come from. Until December 9, 182,872 of the visitors, or some 914 million, had been picked up. K. of the 1,5 billion U.S. which was expected to travel under budgets for 2020, as is the law of No. 36/2020. Of these, 6,57 million were used. K. to buy services for those companies which can receive travel based on 2 mg. 1st par. tracks for travel. The Commission agrees on the importance of tourism. It becomes clear that much of the budget was still to be used in 2020. Therefore, the extension of the period to the spring of 2021 is an important support for tourism if there is greater scope for travel in the next month, providing attention and support for the development of a full-time service in Iceland. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under the circumstances, Director Lilja Rafney Magny Magnúsdóttir, Director of Trust in Friðbertsson, author of the case, Friðbjörg Frildur the daughter of Elíasdóttir, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, Ólafur Ísleifsson, and Sigurður Páll Jónsson. At the end of this, Madam President, I would like to point out that just before giving the commission, an e - mail from the Committee to the Committee to Residents said that the information has been coming from the Ministry of Professional and Neothesis today that a formal agreement has come from the EFTA Institute for extension of the period of travel. The report on the bill outlines the approval of the EFTA Agency of legitimate government support and of the Committee for Professional Roads I was measuring points to this. The report says: There is also a report to the EFTA and subject to the Agency's approval. According to financial and economic evidence, a precoconceivation process is completed, and the government's informal attitude is that the extension of the time proposed by the bill is in line with the EEA General Support Directive. So formal approval has come, and the Ministry of Economics and Economics has issued a confirmation of the material today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u85	A respectable president. I measure here on behalf of the restructuring project for the change to bill to correct the transfer of travel laws. The whole trip's done pretty well. I felt that this was an interesting approach right from the start, and we see quite a positive effect on it. But then we are simply also facing the reality that exists today. There's a specific sector, especially the cultural and artistic sector, that is severely under attack, to be spoken of, along with travel services. That is why we propose a restoration proposal, which includes saving and supporting cultures, art and tourism, where we believe that the ownership should be increased to 15,000 k, which, in turn, adds up to an additional donation. We'll go to 2nd. 1st par. A new paragraph, as follows: An additional donation of culture and art is a digital sum of 15,000. a list of national administrations to individuals 12 years of age or older with an Icelandic social security number and a registered domestic in Iceland. The special property of this product is not delivered. At 3 mg. to add two new numbers - to the 6th and 7th numbers of the theaters and cultures involved. We're talking about the City Theater, the Gullaby Theater, the Hof Museum, the Codian Theater, the Akureyri Theater, the National Theater, and other theaters that have offered demonstrations to pay for it. 12 months, as well as firms who have offered a show of drama, dancing, music, doll and related arts in exchange for money. 12 months. The ownership should be valid for the field and live broadcasts of the Internet. We see the development, which is very pleasant in these difficult situations, that artists are, as expected, observant in how we can continue to communicate art and culture to us Icelanders, and I encourage all of us to be comfortable with it, with a variety of concerts and other cultural events that are being offered over the next days and weeks. We suggest that the date of December 31, 2020, be replaced by June 30, 2021. This is for supporting these groups. We have repeatedly suggested suggestions, which were well - thought - out on the part of the greater part, to provide restaurants, peasants, small tourism companies, both here and in the country, resistance. We will not tire out in showing that we need to put our arms around this temporary situation in order to get strong and powerful. Once we've achieved the impact of vaccination, and we've reached room to get back on track, we'll also have to make sure that people both have on and off and are ready for what we're calling a community to increase value, increase economic growth, go on and then we can both run faster and protect our welfare systems. We need to control our art and cultural sectors in a much more purposeful way than has been done, and therefore we also feel that there is a need for a particular consumption among us, to encourage people to eat culture and art. That's what the game is designed, with this adjustment proposal, which I hope to be approved here at the council. This is not to be done for the most powerful form of resistance. In my opinion, it's hard to ask without art and culture growing with us because there's a lifestyle in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u86	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees on the bill to legalize the payment of an athlete's carol for the pay cost of an outbreak of crown virus. This is from a major health committee and I think it's time to inform the members of the Committee to meet them. The Committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Dr. Bjarnheiður Gautadóttir and Jón Þorvaldsson Þóðsson from the Department of Social Affairs, Hannes S. Jónsson from Iceland's Knatts National Socialist Association, Guðmundur B. Ólafsson and Róbert Geir Gíslason from Iceland's Manual game relationship, The Guðni Bergsson from the Iceland's Knats National Association, and the Elinda Alma Arthursdóttir and the Kristján Gunnarsson from Rotti. The committee received reviews from Iceland's Union of the Controversies, the Alliance of independent theaters, Iceland's Manual Game Association, Iceland's National Association of Horses, and Iceland's Young People. The bill suggests that there will be an agreement on the payment of an athlete's carol for pay costs during the crowning season. The bill is a part of government operations to cope with the effects of a pandemic crown virus in a sports field and is therefore aimed at reducing the damage done to athletes because of needed preventive measures. To meet the requirements, the athlete must pay the pay period between October 1, 2020, and June 30, 2021. The committee and the reviews given to it encouraged that the bill would also take into account free groups of fellow workers who carry out their youth activities outside the sports movement. The majority claim that the bill is one factor in the multiannual activities of the government, all of which aim to reduce the damage caused by a pandemic crown virus. By means of the bill, there will be a provision for the provision of temporary, or complete, shutdown of activities within a designated period of time, under the Health Minister's Regulation on the limitations of meetings for epidemics. Other voluntary organisations were not obliged to discontinue activities in the same way on the basis of the above regulations, and therefore do not agree with the regulations of the bill. The majority, however, agree with the viewpoints that have been tore up in the reviews, and it was discussed on the subject by the visitors. Importantly, we are dealing with the great problems of a free organization, including a free society. Those who do youth work are standing before them. So far, such organizations have largely fallen outside the specific measures taken by governments because of a pandemic crown virus, yet they have been able to take advantage of any greater government resources. In addition to the payment of this case, there are estimated changes in unemployment insurance law that the provisional laws of part-time reform also include legislation that works for the sake of the public good and have an unfavourable purpose. That resource will be useful to free groups of young people. A further consideration will be given to a greater portion of the Committee on the 300th matter during the current council. At a meeting of the Committee, it was found that the proportion of remuneration workers who fall under the range of the bill was in the range of 2003-30%. It would be common for coaches and coaches to be part - workers, contracts with them to be consistent, with periods of competition or academic truth. In most cases, therefore, it would not be the salary to measure 1st, section 4. Law on Official Pays, No. 45/1987. As a result, a large proportion of employees were killed by sports associates outside the standard range of the bill. The majority of it is important that the bill applies directly to all employees who are involved in exercise and sports events, whether with salary workers or with contractors. Therefore, suggest that the value range of the bill be expanded to include athletes, coaches, helpers, and other members of the exercise team and sports partners at the pay contract or contract for a certain period of time. The majority of the rights to the bill are not intended to include the paid athletes who have worked in untimely jobs that were not directly affected by the prior health secretary's regulations, such as office members. The committee stated that it is important to ensure that there are no mistakes between the amount of money paid by a sports company for a worker and for a professional contractor. Remuneration costs, such as the payment of pensions, insurance fees, and medical bills, are required to pay the expenses that are paid for themselves. Therefore, why not make sure that the maximum payment for a specific contractor's payment is at 70% of the amount that the accounts of the contractor's contractor will make it possible to maintain agreement between the amount of money the athletes themselves have to pay. The rest of the section contributes to the change of Figure 7. the bill related to the information provided by sports companies in the processing of an application. The more part also suggests that in the list of data, which are not included in the directive, there will be improved employment contracts and contracts with contractors, job accounts, and the confirmation of contractors. The majority of these data are important when presenting an application as such agreements are one of the basic premises that it is possible to verify that the requirements of the law are met. This suggests that sports companies will be obliged to provide information on previous salary or contractors so that they can be tested in agreement with the company's previous payments and whether there has been an abnormal increase in pay from month to month. Other changes that the greater part suggests are technical and are not intended to influence the subject of the bill. With reference to the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed in a special Senate document. Helga Vala Helgadóttir and Árnadóttir Kolbönóttir signed this opinion in advance that they intend to make an account in a talk. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. Under this view, the author of the case, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, president of the Committee, Árnadóttir Kol Kolbrún Yearnad, in advance, Guðmundur Indur Kristinsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánsdótir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Rafney Lufney Magnúsdóttir Magnótir, and Vilhjálmur of the Árnason. A respectable president. Just at the end of the day, I'd like to thank you for your solidarity with the Committee on this matter. I'd like to thank the members of the Department of Social Affairs, sports members, youth members and public welfare partners for a good cooperation which is reflected in the findings of the Committee and the Ministry. A respectable president. We're here to have a good case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u87	Madam President. Thank you. A pilot, Ásmundur Friðriksson, very much for the speech. I'm glad the committee met the criticism presented here, including ... frommeat 1st. on the matter, of course, that it would be unacceptable that sports company contractors did not agree with the solution made in this bill. This has now been taken into account. I remember that at that time, the highest was spoken. Social Affairs Minister, Ásmundur Einar Daðason, in the sense that problems with sports contractors were solved in another bill. Was there a discussion at the work of the Committee? Is it also working in other parts of the system, so to speak? Has a what? The manager of the majority of the Committee's work on this? What I really want to come on is what happens to a dollar. It says, by permission of the president: A depositor is obliged to pay on payable expenses, such as the payment of pensions, insurance bills, and medical bills, which are paid to pay on his own. Therefore, contributes more of the item to achieve maximum payment for the specific contractor's payments at 70% of the amount the company accounts will record from...• The pay-related charges, of course, do not fall. If they are to be met alone, it is necessary that this should be reconsidered. In any case, it is necessary to explain more fully what the difference is, since the contractor who costs the gymnasium has to return these bills from his account. So there is some measure of thought if the pay - related fees are being looked at only. Watch your step. A senator, a spokesman for the matter, might explain what this is about? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Bergþór Threei Ólason for the inquiry. Of course, it became clear that the contractors were outside that bill. In the messages and comments given by the committee from the sports model, listed earlier, there was a great deal of emphasis on how contractors would be taken into the bill. At least it wasn't said, so I remember, that there were special laws about contractors, but it was decided to take it in the manner that is being done here. There are data from sports companies that suggest that 60% of their workers are at contractors. So it was a very important matter of interest to the movement that the contractor's payment was taken, and she stressed it in all her conversations with the committee. As a result, the tax business showed that with large amounts of shops, car costs, car costs, expenses, clothing costs, and so forth, there are other things that athletes carry on their work. It was estimated that where exercise and competition fell over this period, the cost of earnings also fell. So the Commission concluded that the cutoff point for this amount was 70%. I can say this here, that it's natural for us to argue about it. But this is the conclusion of the committee, and we're doing it this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson for the answer. Although I'm not going to make a suggestion here that the matter will be taken into account, I think it's still a point to consider. I'm pretty sure, after a significant operation, that the earmark of 30% of the account at a dropped cost is well over the target. If these same employees, as the original bill required, would be expected in one way or another at the employment contract. In any case, this cost fell to the gymnasium, and in the end, it was real. I think our 70% payment rate is way too low. It would be much easier to watch a number somewhere close to 90%. So I was told that I had developed a change in its proposal from my head. A member of a welfare committee, Helga Vala Helgadóttir, who deals with this in the very nature of suggesting 90% instead of 70%. I think it's a more reasonable approach than the 70% criteria that pay-developed fees always come in payment. In order to have the number more comfortable, the tool that gives the account to a sports company will have to pay the full amount. The pay-related fees in support of this bill need to be expected. There is another cost, and it is certainly not 30%. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u90	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. Of course, we can talk it over and over and over again, and I understand the Senator's message quite well and I get the picture. It was handled well on the committee, these views were developed, and people understand them. I think that in view of the fact that we took the contractors, and it was naturally extremely important that it recovered, it might not be unusual to refer to other comparable laws that we've been putting in this Covid situation, to reforms, partial reforms, and all that we're doing. There are roofs and peaks everywhere, and sports movement is naturally also being developed in this matter. Yet, in the big picture, we are making an enormous impression on the sport movement. We're helping her to be ready when the whistle comes back. The government has also strengthened its activities by the law of general law on the employees working in sports companies; general employees, office workers, managers and others who have been able to get a partial reform or the ways the government has been offering. So we've been working on it pretty well. I accept the message from what? Senator, this is part of the whole process. That way, I assume we're going to try to get it over with.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u91	Madam President. I would recommend my adjustment to this important and urgent matter. However, before I do, I would like to state that I support all the changes made in the committee, but I wrote under the committee's opinion in advance because of the changes I think it is necessary to make. First of all, I suggest that according to the word pay paid on the 1st question, Article 6. the bill is included: plus pay-related pay. On the one hand, I suggest that a-mer 5 of the turnt-in changes on the deck. 598 will be 90% instead of 70%. Why? If I go over the adjustments first, I suggest this, simply because we have other options that we have agreed on at the Council to attack, e.g. building a deadline, making the decision to support the companies for the expenses they really need, of course, to a maximum but in the resources, e.g. are pay - related fees, holiday pay, pension payments, and that kind of thing in the scholarship. Why? Yes, because we are strengthening the company for the cost of the employee. Here we discussed mixing these pay - related fees with the discussion on whether to support contractors or not. These are just two related matters, and we need to understand completely what we're talking about. Whether the paying hand, i.e. The employer, pays a salary or a contractor, is only paying a particular account, on the other hand to the contractor and the employee's salary and pay-related fees. Therefore, it really doesn't matter whether it's a contractor or a hired person; we're going to support these companies for this brief period of time. We are going to support the sports companies because of the expenses they have because of employees who are unable to do their job because of the crowning virus epidemic. Achieving all activities for a certain period of time was absolutely needed to close, stop, and this bill is to try to match the group that directly conducts training, or practice sports. This is not an office or any other staff. That's why I suggest that the transition is that we seize these communities, as we have decided here at the council to seize other societies. We have made a decision not to keep the pay - related fees except for the cost of sports companies. Actually, I don't feel logical about why the greater part makes a decision to have it in ways other than other options. I can't figure it out because it's the cost, and I got the feeling that it was comparing two different things, that it was actually acting like the pay-related charges had something to do with the contractor. It's not. There are pay-related charges in both places. At other locations the employer will have to give the pay-related fees and in the other place the contractor will have to pay the pay-related fees himself. Either way, I don't think we're going to make sports companies stand in a very different position than any other company in Iceland. There is no cover - up to any prevention and public health behind sports in Iceland. We were presented to the committee of the Iceland's Knatt Sports Association, Iceland's Game Game Association, and Iceland's Manual Game Association, and they were told what kind of situation they had. There's been a massive collapse in the income of sports companies all over the country. There has also been a complete collapse of funding because, of course, corporations and businesses throughout the country are more in control while we put this storm on the move. It is also difficult to gain strength, but at the same time, sports companies are committed, both to their employees, possibly 20% of the staff, i.e. Directors and coaches, but also the contractors with temporary contractors. It should now be stated, and it was confirmed that the workers' contracts with sports companies are not so - called artificial contractors, by no means. This is simply a temporary contract, possibly one season, and this is part-time work. They are young people who may be players, and who take on training from younger ones, and may receive 10,000 calls per month, etc. The visitors who visited the Committee discussed that the number of athletes in the country - all over the country was no less than 1,000. There are about 100,000 practicers and volunteers, but there are about 1,000 people involved in the work, training, and playing. Of course, it's a vast array of people that are underneath, and public health issues cannot be overlooked when supporting us in sports companies. This is a very important operation there. It is important for children in very different circumstances. This may not require much money so as to be seen, and class distinctions are not very influential in this activity but have been tried as hard as possible by rural society, e.g., to give children smaller families the strength to participate in such activities. I'd just like to introduce to you what has been discussed on the part-change process because there was a discussion on the Committee to see if any other member group should be included in the bill. The development of the committee revealed that they are in many respects different from those built up in the particular positions of sports society, one of the number of volunteers there, and how many are engaged in only a small part - time work in practice, training, or assistant coaching. This working relationship will in some way be different from what is known elsewhere. Hence, the decision was made to go further on changing the laws of the part-changing process in order to get them into the custody, to let them back in there, but unfortunately they were changed last summer, so that associated organizations, which are inaccessible to the public good news, were taken out of that way in ways incomprehensibility. They are now being reassigned, and that is how we do business that is different from sports. Again, I say it's why it's the nature of this work relationship between employees who come directly to practice sports or are athletes themselves at some sort of fee and then the sports club. I have then introduced the adjustment proposal, and I hope that more of the council is ready to examine it with an open eye, even though it is only coming from a humble member of the council. I think there were certain misunderstandings in the discussion of why the pay-related charges should be left out in this resources, not in other measures such as sports companies other than companies supported by the Korean epidemic. Otherwise, of course, I support this matter wholeheartedly, and I am very happy that the committee agreed to intervene in the matter. It was very much discussed here with 1st. The above pointed out that these contractors were a large part of the athletes and coaches, so it was of great importance that they did not become some trapeze in this regard and that they left behind in an effort to change their cooling habits. But that's, so I say it again, not because of artificial engineering, but because of these temporary short-term part-work contracts that are so well-known in this environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u92	Madam President. We here discuss the bill on the payment of an athlete's carols for the pay expenses of an outbreak of crown virus. I think it's safe to say that it's a pleasure to see how well Congress has worked out all the issues involved. This is one of the largest mass movements in the country, i.e. The sports movement, with more than a thousand volunteers, and probably something at another thousand, if not more, on various payments. I'm not going to list the details of the committee meetings, the other committees have reviewed it, but I'm going to stop only the contractors'wages, as other senators have done, because it's very important for people to realize that the pay religion in sports companies is often in contractors for reasons that may not be all light. Often, these are very temporary jobs. At times, these can be even for months or temporary isolated jobs and not unusual. However, it can be said that the contractor is in some ways different from what he does when he or she buys to work or something like that, since there is in itself a particular recruitment relationship between those who do work and the sports club he works for. So it is that 3rd into the conversion proposals of the Committee, we are on the 3rd listed. There are two more new numbers, a contractor's payments, and a contractor's. This definition of what is meant by subsidies, i.e. certain contractors for activities directly involved in the sports community, and a contractor working directly at practice, training, and assistance at a sports club under the contract on contractors. It is very important that this should be true because it is not here to change in any of the basic definitions of a contractor or contractor usually in a taxable sense, not at all, but to face the fact that there is a special relationship between the one doing the job for the sports movement and the sports movement. It is, in effect, a kind of staff relationship, but it is usually solved in this way. That's why it's solved in the bill and it's actually gone the way I've been reading. It has been observed in the business of the Committee that there are other societies out there, such as free associates, juvenile society, and others who have not reached that shelter, let's say, at least not to a sufficient extent, that measures due to the Korean epidemic have reached, and maybe not the part of the improvement process. Like what? paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson introduced a 300 - year - old program of changes to the 300s, which includes those who are not directly involved and thus ensures that their needs are also present, for which there may be a variety of activities, often with several employees, who have even been afflicted by the epidemic and who have not been directly arrived, let's say, and therefore why, and have the right to say there also the benefits of improving non-employed organisations. Let us not forget that. It has been discussed whether to go all the way to 90% or even to a full percentage in the contractor's payment and whether there is a normal difference between the contractors set in the changes made by the Committee or whether these payments should be higher. In this regard, I want to point out that there is no minimum. There is no minimum in this bill itself, as is true in many other primes that have been treated by the government. In terms of creating part-changes a minimum of 25% will be required, i.e. That the company or the attorney has suffered that loss, let's say. Hence, it may be said that it is not unnatural to think that some part of it is responding, both in this way and with the explanation at hand. The manager came along, that the cost of sports and is partly included in the contractor's payment is not included while neither sports competition nor exercise is being held. Whether or not we've met at exactly the right percentage, I won't say, but this is the approach I sign and share in moving with other members of the committee and will support the payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u93	A respectable president. We're here on the bill to legalize the payment of an athlete's carol for pay expenses during a crowning season. I support this matter with my whole mind, and I think it's a great improvement. It's a long time for us to take and put on a little extra sports because we know how important it is. Support is particularly important to the memory of the budgets that are fought by many, and sports in the country would be a shock if they could not do their jobs, especially to children, because of the tremendous provincial activity of an athlete's team. As a result, it is also good to know that we are trying to grab as many people as possible, and I hope that this will also reach the little sports companies who really need help and that it will go all the way. But when such support is given, you always fear that some will remain. I have to say, I agree with what. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir. The changes she makes are not dramatic, but all the changes that help in this are good and I think we should be able to accept them completely. We could have done so and arranged for them to be content because in themselves there is no opposition to this matter. Rather, it is only a question of minor adjustments and fine adjustments have been made. The case is on the right track. I just want to reiterate that I really hope that these adjustments are going to work out, and then I think it's pretty good. But then, of course, we need to keep track of how this comes to the sports club and how all of it works. But hopefully we'll find out over the next period. Hopefully, there are not many who fall between themselves and who do not get the help they really need. But I believe that most of them get the help they need.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u94	Madam President. I'm here offering an opinion of a change in bill-making proposal to legalize the health insurance law. The leading of this case is, like, why. Councilmen know, because we are in the middle of a pandemic because of the crown virus, and they will see that over the next few weeks and months they will become accessable to vaccines caused by the Covid-19 disease. There is a big interest in governments and the entire population that as many as possible get vaccinated. The committee has discussed the matter and has contacted the Ministry's representatives, the Guðbjörg of Benjamínsdóttir's daughter, and Dr. Þórólfur Guðnason. The committee received reviews from Iceland's Publicity and Iceland's Medical Insurance. The bill suggests that we make health insurance laws, No. 111/2000, will be added to the temporary evacuation of the law's field to include those who have been vaccinated in Iceland against the Covid-19 disease from 20211⁄223 with a vaccine ordered by the European competent authority. There is no doubt about the damaging rights of those who may be harmed at or after such vaccinations and the right to repair expansively beyond current rights, depending on the events to 2033, with reference to the expiry payment provided by the Patient Insurance Act, as discussed further in the report by the bill. Governments of the public and national interest recommend a broad range of vaccinations that will be performed as soon as possible to prevent the spread of the disease. As a result, it is urgent to eliminate as many barriers as possible from vaccination. This is an important step towards this goal by severely limiting the financial risk of vaccination against the disease, although some adverse reactions may occur. It is important that the European Commission's contract with the Manufacturers of the vaccine for excommunication of the manufacturer's rights to all countries of the European Union and EFTA is taken into account in the context of the damage responsibility. Where there is a vaccine that the Icelandic government will provide, and national interests will provide will provide for the general population of vaccination and will move rapidly on, considering that the Icelandic government is responsible for the cost to which individuals may be affected by the characteristics of the vaccine and the wrong treatment of it according to the provisional arrangement. The committee stresses that regardless of where vaccination is carried out within the health care facility, improvement of the State is required. In general, the committee and the reviews received by the Committee declared support for the subject and purpose of the bill and encouraged its quick approval. It was emphasized that the objective of the bill, to rely on the position of those who may be affected by or after vaccination, was one of the reasons for the general vaccination and a sustained threat to the spread of the disease. The committee suggested that a growing group of people around the world choose to avoid recommended vaccinations and decide not to be vaccinated or children due to illogical fear of vaccinees that have been used for decades. Because of the importance of general immunization against diseases that have plagued mankind over the centuries, it would be a basis for general action against all recommended vaccinations. The committee takes into account the importance of general vaccination and accepts the importance of eliminating illogical fear of recommended vaccinations. It was then noted that current health insurance laws include incidents where the misuse of vaccine by the health care professional results in loss of the vaccine to the vaccinated person. With the bill, it would be repeated and clear. It would also be clear that the 4th chapter of the 1st paragraph. 2.g. The laws provided for the rare and serious complications of vaccination, with reference to the terms and 1st paragraph. The law of a paper with a bill that became a law on health insurance. In addition, the report of the bill listed here for the treatment of improvement should be aimed at achieving damage to the minimum financial level due to all complications of vaccination against the Covid-19 disease, not only in rare and serious complications. The Commission agrees with the above understanding of current rights and the righteous effects of the provisional principle of the bill. Although any damage caused by vaccination might be considered beneficial according to the current court, the very purpose of the bill is to disqualify the damaged status of those who may be harmed in or after such vaccinations. It was suggested that there would be some cases where damage would not fully be improved by a peak 2 mg's improvement. Section 5. It's a health insurance policy. There would be a danger that the harm of a young person would be partly unsettled. As shown in the bill report, maximum improvements are made according to the law 11,605,731k. of January 1, 2020. This limit is applicable to all damages under the law except 1 mg. Section 4. Theirs. The Commission stresses that in the bill there is a great improvement and recovery of damage rights due to vaccination with the Covid-19 disease and that the general improvement rate of the current legislation is also correct based on the bill. It should then be noted that general damage rules apply to improvement requirements due to loss beyond a level of 2.mg. Section 5. The law. The Commission agrees with what has been observed in the treatment of the problem that the bill has taken an important and essential step in ensuring general vaccination, thereby limiting the spread of the Covid-19 disease and limiting the enormous damage caused by the present pandemic to Icelandic society. It is emphasized that governments are familiar with the general public for where to report adverse reactions that may occur following the vaccination. The committee stated that vaccinations, although unlikely, could not be excluded before the New Year's Eve. Therefore, the Committee suggests that the bill includes those who have a vaccination in Iceland against the Covid-19 disease in the year 2020, although there is not much left in the year 2020. According to this, the committee will agree on the importance of the bill being fulfilled and suggest that it be approved by a change that I have once tore apart. Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this. It's under the heading "Why." Councilmen Helga Helgadóttir Helgadóða Chairman, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrún, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Guðgandi Kristinsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdóttir, Rafney Magnúsdóttir Magnústir, Sara Elísa Thordurdótir's Þórðardóttir, and Vilmimurmurmurm Árnason. Mr. President. I've been explaining this matter. It is happy that on the same day as recommended by the European Commission in this case, and it will be agreed on in all the following days to bring good news from outside the world, from Europe, that the European Medicines Agency is going to cancel a vaccine application for Pfizer BioNtech 21 December, i.e. one eight days earlier than originally planned. As a result, the change we make may become more effective. We can hope so. But in the world and here in Iceland, the more hopes that gradually the horizon has moved on, after the vaccine has been developed and is now in an application procedure, and some in some countries have already adopted, it is quite important now in the darkest winter. Therefore, Mr. President, it is a special pleasure to be able to recommend this bill now and hope that by making sure that vaccination with the Covid-19 disease can begin once a vaccine becomes ready and that it will be general and help us as a community to pass through this pandemic harmlessly and quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u95	A respectable president. I support the whole idea of this bill about a change in the insurance law, of reform rights due to vaccination. I just come up here with the idea of pointing to the only novice I see on this bill. That's the low amount, damage level 11,605,731K, which is not a high number relative to the high price of a person's energy level. It was observed in the Committee that if the person is in the power of disability, he will, of course, go to disability improvements, but we know that the lowest disability benefits are actually a result of absolute poverty. If we take this amount, it's not enormously high. I think that's also telling us, although there are other improvements, that in general we need to revise all damages because they have not been updated properly, especially in damage laws. It's a long time to update all the numbers based on the real time, the time of the day, so that they really deliver what they're supposed to do, and that the person who goes on an accident will be safe with it -- we hope there'll be no one, that would be wishful, but if he did so badly, he's at least Well, he should not have to live in poverty for the rest of his life. I support this whole mind because it's an open case, we're finishing this before the vaccination starts. It was a monotonous deal with the Committee, and everyone agrees, and it's just a great case. But as I say, it's mostly the numbers, they need to be revised, but otherwise it's just the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u96	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synopsis proposal for a radio fee's disposition. It reads: The General concluded to hide the Minister of Education and Culture in consultation with the Secretary of Economic and Economic Affairs to provide a bill for changing the provision of a radio fee. The change would allow up to one third of the price of the media to be held at a rate of up to one - third of the price to be paid to the media other to the state radio as it pleases. It's my associate members of the Central Party who are partners for this Senate resolution, all as one. Its primary objective is to strengthen and improve the position of the individual media as soon as the State Radio Headship in the media market status or, as stated in the Senate resolution proposal: All the taxables in Iceland, individuals and lawyers pay a special price for the state radio ohf. The radio bill, which is applied to the pressures of public pay every year, is imposed on the individuals to whom taxes are due according to Article 1. a law on income taxes and taxpayers who carry an independent tax obligation according to Article 2. Law on income taxes, No. 90/2003. [...] The price goes to a fixed amount determined by law. It is a nasal tax that no taxable person can escape. It doesn't matter whether he can use the Kingdom TV media, whether he accepts it, or whether he understands it at all. This proposal suggests that there will be changes in the laws on the State Radio, the media in the public sector, No. 23/2013, which includes a changed arrangement for the collection of radio charges. It is suggested that the people have freedom of choice for the provision of a portion of this price. Thus, by means of their contributions, they can guarantee certain diversity in the media of the country. By sitting alone in this currency, the Government Radio has held a superior position to all other media, which holds out a news transfer and a program. Such a monopoly, especially a Kingdom publisher, is unnatural today and directly counters the idea of independence and diversity of thinking and thinking. In 1st. the law on the State Radio is that their objective is to promote democratic discussions, cultural diversity and social cohesion in the community through public media services. Thus, radio programs are entrusted with the implementation of this government policy. It is a national medium, fulfilling its varied role in professionalism, ambition, honesty, and respect. Then they should cultivate Icelandic language, culture, history, and cultural heritage. It is the opinion of the carriers that in order for the State Radio to fulfill this obligation, there must be room for other powerful media at the market. This refers to the media that can provide the State Radio, while increasing the variety of social talk and further enhance the public's understanding of it. [...] The impact of the media on the community is so extensive that consumer media lock is one of the basic pioneers that they can be considered valid and active citizens in a democratic state. Giving one member of the government's central lung from public media grants works against these goals. Lately, there have been many details that show that the Rulers of the Kingdom News feel that they have an example of how it works. Both the National Review and the Media Committee have repeatedly made serious comments on the activities of the Kingdom topic and on various legal conditions relevant to the Agency's management. In addition, in view of her legal duties, it can be noted that the current State Radio is far from the same security as in the past. Nasal tax, such as radio charge, is already recognized in the charge of parishes. It stipulates that national churches and registered religions and societies under the law on them should have a share in the income tax laid according to law on income taxes. Is it the choice of taxpayers to which congregation will pay? There should be no basis, therefore, for similar application of radio fees, e.g. so that the taxable party will specify the tax returns each time to direct the section of the radio fee. For years, it has been discussed to limit the state radio activities of advertising markets, thus supporting the free media. Obviously, such implementation has not been successful. Therefore, if you are a messenger of the proposal, just take this approach to the free media, thus ensuring a more healthy and varied national speaking in the country. After this saying, I pray you, after the first siege. Let's get it over with. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u97	President. I can't say I'm surprised at this proposal from what happened. The members of the Central Party. I've heard them say things about the Kingdom Radio and read after them even more so that the spirit that floats across the lakes does not surprise me. I could spend a lot of time with what? A senator in answer, and I'd appreciate it if I just got all the answers and we could have a good conversation, but unfortunately Congress doesn't allow it. I have to choose from the text what I really feel is the way the paper is. So I'd like to stop at Section 2, by permission of the President's article: ▪ Such a monopoly, especially a Kingdom publisher, is unnatural today and directly opposes the idea of independence and the variety of thinking and beliefs. What's going on, President? There's a problem. Councilmen claim that the state media opposes the idea of independence and the diversity of thinking and thinking?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u98	Yeah, whatever.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u99	There's a problem. Senators are so boring. A senator and his commanding officer, Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, who calls up here, that they cannot imagine that others could develop their own opinions unless someone tells them what to think? [[Up front.]] - Would the President be glad to silence those yammers out here in the hall? [[Says who?]] Counts 'em out. A member of the BBC, the Scandinavian state media, the state media worldwide, opposes the idea of independence and diversity of thinking and thinking? Or it's just another walk to RUS, like it's in the middle of nowhere. paritaprevir The Sigmundur of Gunnlaugsson Gunougson?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u100	Don't be so sore all the time. Calm down.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u101	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson, Otttar's son Proppér, responded and had now suffered a wound. A senator does not come up against me on this matter. Of course, it is obvious that the highest position the Kingdom News has in the media market is affecting society's discussions. It just doesn't make sense to say another thing when The Kingdom Radio starts playing about 7 billion a year, with 5 of the above - mentioned nasal tax. This bill is primarily focused on strengthening and adding the position of the individual media in this conflict with all of this about the dominant phenomenon of the Kingdom News. Because I know why. A senator is a great amateur for international contracts and purses that come from international institutions, as it were, in 37 g. Council Directive, No. 65/2007, according to the press, it is possible for consumers to make safe and effective use of the media. Part of this is that there are a wide variety of media, news, programs, in every community. I'll let me say what I'm doing. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, who has worked as a journalist, counts the position of the media and their role in informing the people of each nation as a model in totalitarian communities, where one government agency determines the manner in which language is presented and presented. However, the emphasis is on the delicateness of the·gaʹpe. A senator - now is the time. I'm gonna wear this later because I'm gonna give it to you. A senator will come up here again. I also agree that the President does not allow more than this one, so now I advise the senator to make good use of his time for questions and not to spend it in general speculations as before. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u102	President. It's just not surprising. A senator did not even try to answer the questions that were addressed to him. You see, Middleclass people are the way of finding the nonsense, rolling out of the way, not listening to anyone who tries to talk to them and not answer anything, just being in his place. We don't have conferences with the Middle Class, Mrs. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u103	Don't you want to ask me something? This makes it easier to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u104	In case of a moment. Sometimes a senator listened to me if he heard the questions from me earlier. I'll repeat them for him, count him. Is it true that the same applies to other government media? Counts 'em out. Senator, e.g. In Britain, is such monotonous positions directly countering British opinions of independence and diversity of thinking and beliefs? Counts 'em out. A senator? Or in other countries where there is a government media? President. Few things are more apparent to this ludicrous thinking than to be expected. A senator stated earlier on the discussion, where one government news agency directs in what way a case is presented and introduced. [[Up front.]] I'm not surprised. A senator has never opened a newspaper or a Web site in Iceland, but there are quite a number of them. In fact, we are about hundreds of millions of them. [[Up front.]] Hv. The members of the Central Party talk extensively about these 7 billion whom they seem to consider going directly to the RUS News Office. [[Up front.]] I know why. A senator who has no other role as the state radio? How much, boy. A senator, so I direct a direct question to the senator who knows all about the budget of the U.S.R., of the entire budget of the U.S.R.U., to the international program, to the cultural activities of the U.S.R.R.R.R.R.R.R.A.G.A.S.R.R.R.A.G.A.G.S.R.R.R.R.G., etc.? Or feel it. That doesn't matter to members of the Central Party?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u105	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. I'll just say, "Slow down, cowboy." There is simply nothing to discuss on the proportion of budgets to the news agency in this Senate resolution. This is especially involved in the fact that the program of living according to the same principles in the minds of a proverb. Now it's crystal clear. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé does not seem to have read the Congress proposal or listened to my story, which, of course, is just the way it is, and I have trouble correcting it. However, I must correct what was said in the case at the time. A later senator who answered that I would have been referring to the agency's directing news coverage and opinions. When I entered it in my answer, I was talking about news agencies in totalitarian countries. It's a minimum requirement. A senator will listen to a person who is to answer him if he is to have some understanding in the afterlife. If you're going to compare the state of the State Radio in Iceland's media market with, for example, The BBC Kingdom Hall's position in Britain is a very different setting. I'll go through it in a great deal, but it's not possible in a short answer. But it is simply ridiculous to equalize it. We're gonna go for a second. I'd like to say, "The state radio supreme position on this market is, in a way, about unbearable to be for personal media. " The same heavy position is in general planning, but it's the most obvious thing in the news process, so you just say it the way it is. [[The president calls.]] This does not involve criticism of the work of the news agency. It is only to say that money is the ultimate position in the state of the radio. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u106	Mr. President. I'd like to put a word in it only about this excellent suggestion by the middle-class members, and in the interest of the State Radio funding in that way, to suggest that the public be entrusted with the responsibility of where he wants his media money to come down. As we know, one media is being conducted under compulsion. So, Mr. President, I believe that in the media, in the last few years as many years as in the media, no environmental developments have occurred as much as in the media. We can only see it everywhere in the different media, such as in a can of home, where the wine has been replaced by the flow groups. One man with a pass is a medium. We'll be aware of this right now when the government currently seated plans to match the situation between Iceland's media media by making them all a member of the state of the press, i.e. if they meet certain requirements. In itself, it is amazing that the State Radio actually has a lot of free cards. It doesn't seem to have to roll there with any costly stone. I criticized it a few years ago that it was, I think, 10 or 12 directors of the various burnings at the State Radio then had just over 200 people on work plus contractors, who have later discovered that they were expected illegally hired. In the past few years, it has been discovered that as this trend continues - and there is no end to it in sight - the Kingdom Radio remains a foundation to remain in a similar environment, similar box, and 1930, plus Channel 2, plus television. Other than that, there is no amazing development in the State Radio business, except for what they decided a few years ago, an evil sound, to turn the company into an ohf. And as is true of more ohfs. has really been worse than before. Now it is not my intention or that of other Middle Classes to be guided by the media, but it wants to be with them. and hf. which the State is to say is a very long way from the owner to the function and those who control the operation. I think I've asked two Ministers of Education what is the position of the staff of the state TV, whether they have the rights and duties of the state servants or the employees of the general labour market. Last time I asked the highest. Education minister, she didn't know the answer. I don't know if this is one of the things that have occurred between parts when the operation was changed. I call attention to the fact that while we're not involved in the business of this company - which uses proben now got hundreds of millions more from the state fund because of a bad management situation. Not all the media are so lucky to be able to turn off that which is bad. In a changing world and a changed world, we feel that it is time for consumers in the media field to have something to say about the use of money, i.e. whether you want to support and strengthen the Kingdom News on this amount or if you want to prescribe the amount in a different direction. It's taken a completely uncivilized case that I know the President's familiarity, i.e. that the fees that humans do not charge with the benefit of the nations can be prescribed freely. I have told you before, Mr. President that the nation is born into two organizations. We are born into the National Church, and we are born into the RUS. We can tell ourselves from the National Church, but there's only one way out of RUSB, and it's down to six feet. It's only until death do us part. That business relationship is not different. So it is perfectly normal and long ago time for a discussion of this without any delay in the current issue of the Kingdom News and without any particular consideration of the activities involved. There are certain values to be taken into consideration, such as objectiveness, impartiality, to preserve Icelandic and security roles. If you're looking closely, you can find some holes in all this, Mr. President. The security role is so fine that I remember it,--and I've told this story here before--a creature on the mountainyard south in the summer, and should have found myself safe there, if for example. I would have discovered, or something like that, that when I turned on the radio, Likini, a Christian radio station, was the first one on the radio in the car. I had nothing against it, not at all. Happy are those hearing the word of Guð! But in this place there was no place in the land at all. Thus, there was no safety role in this region. We could constantly reason whether the objective role should be in doing what it should do. One thing, however, is to say, Mr. President, and it is that the reception of an Icelandic case is not exemplary in this company, just to say. Every day we listen to the channels of this company. Clearly, then, there is something you can do to save. I don't understand that the ten minutes I'm having here are over. I have to make sure I'm coming back up here to finish my business. I'll let them know to the President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u107	President. This issue is primarily about competition in the media market, about reasonableness and democracy. But it's because of Kolbeinn. Proppér I cannot help but mention that, of course, it is also important that we consider the duties of the TV to be objective and fair in our discussion. And because of what? A senator asked if it really believed that in Britain to produce the BBC, it was directing the discussion in a particular direction, perhaps all right to remind that the former institution, BBC, has been highly criticized and that this is a problem and a promise and correction and is now under attack to correct it, so perhaps it can become a role model. But here, we are primarily discussing the situation at a very important and difficult competitive market, which is a media business in Iceland. With some 350,000 people, not more, it is difficult to maintain large - scale media, although many have accomplished a self - sacrificing job in it and modern technology, the possibility of such a business is certainly increased in a more practical way than before earning money is limited by the fact that most media are fighting in the backs and having to always have money from their owners, in all too many cases, over and over again, the same media and have to start over again. Those who run these media have tried, at times like the shouter in the wilderness because of our slight response here at the General Assembly, to demand more reasonableness, and to consider our circumstances. But they have a real lack of it. This body of Congress proposal suggests an attempt to correct it, and it is proposed as a synoptic proposal just to try to get the government involved in this project because we have seen how things are going to work out when the government has been resolved and implemented, and it is considered most important to make them disappear or reject them. In this way we create an idea for a solution to the government, and of course we are willing to participate in that work because there is no need for it. There is no way to live in any business that there is one official who does not have to compete on the same terms as everyone else. How about, for example. If it were in business, in the grocery store business, for example? Are they not important? Yes, even more important than the media is. It is most important to have something to eat, and if there was a lack of access to such necessities, the State might have taken time to set up shops and try to serve as most people. But would it be natural that such a situation now existed, or would it be reasonable for the government to start the government's grocery store, a grocery store that would not have to be profited in the same way that other stores would compete with them, not just income, but special tax, a nasal tax, which the public would pay to keep these stores going? I fear that most of the other stores would not last long under those circumstances. It was understandable when the Kingdom News was founded in 1930, then as a complete innovation or almost complete innovation in Iceland, that it would take the access of the State to attack the investment and send information to everyone, at least Most of the population. Otherwise, it would not have been possible at that time, and for a long time, the State Radio was sitting alone in this market. But then other media, photon media, began to be added, and the media market changed completely and thus the basis for what was originally established. We must want the lawgiver, who really forces the public to pay this nose tax, to take some of the circumstances into consideration, and to react to this discrimination that other media face. The government radio may not be a great supporter for another government agency, so called sometimes, the State Church, has even attacked such efforts with false prowess to get people to register and discuss considerable separation of state and church, though it has already taken place. But don't you think it's time for us to talk about the separation of state and VOLV, segregation of state and radio? With this suggestion it is not being taken to the full; it is not going as far as, for example. has been followed in terms of the State Church. It is taking the first step in making the National Radio self-preservation and, at the same time, reducing discrimination in the media market and doing it in a democratic way by giving to anyone who is now paying this nose tax, an opportunity to have something to say in what media he is protected from the government, not ordering people to give their money to give only one agency, but having a small chance, though limited, to call attention to the relativeness of this and market, to assist others as well as the media. This is a suggestion that is designed to address a major problem, in fact, a crisis in the media market, in a much more democratic and rational way than the suggestions we have heard discussed in the government that go out of making private sources dependent on the state, depending on being dosed from a minister. There are also differences, such as we have heard, that is not a choice, but it is not necessarily possible to talk about equal communication in the media as a form of it, but it is a democratic way, but it is a very modest way of going, where people are given a little more opportunity to sort out their own money than is expected in the present system. I think the state radio that speaks a lot about how much support they feel will benefit from such a measure and having to prove themselves, having to care for all the people of the country, and even having to show reasonableness in their coverage. This case presents a big challenge, solves it wisely, brings in a new approach that can be brought back to a new Icelandic media market and, at the same time, a democratic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u108	Mr. President. First of all, I want to thank the President for the proper tip to me earlier. But the senator who stands here is aware of the difference between a synonym and a bill, and he knows so much about the time he was in, and he wasn't blaming the president for lack of time, but perhaps it was rather generalised that he had so much to say that it could not be achieved in ten minutes. It has been this way, Mr. President, as many of us here know, that in the last days, we Middle-Centennials have been advised to step into a time machine or jump back into the toil town. There may be a number of factors in the matter of doing either of us or of both. But perhaps now when the Central Party makes this suggestion, which is both progressive, forward - and I can say modern, Mr President, it's liberal - almost all the liberal agents in this hall are gone. And I'm not minimizing the gentlemen sitting here on behalf of the United States, following up the discussion, and getting their views on this matter. But I had come to my first talk that I thought that the Kingdom News was not fulfilling its cultural role that the program is being presented in Icelandic. I can give you one example to prove that, Mr. President. For many years, and even from the beginning, I'm not quite quite familiar with it, the Kingdom News has served its so - called seminar. The only success of the person I know is the reputation of a girl, and I know I'm not supposed to say that in this chair, but I have to do it just to take one example. Other skinny ones I could pick to show that they're missing, but that's not the main thing. It's kind of two things we're going to do with this proposal. First, the taxpayers have a choice of what their mode of emergency is and that the Agency, or company, the ohf., is enabled to get to know their status on the market, to find out exactly what the state of the media is among the people, whether it is still RUS of all of us, or just some of us. The government radio has had confidence in itself for a long time and only comes out pretty well. If this is the case, the nation trusted RUV Ohf. The state radio needs to be delivered as well as expected from now on. not to fear anything. Then it just keeps getting its share of the large share of the nose tax the radio tax is and can do everything its own way. On the other hand, if the trust and interest in the Kingdom publisher program is in other ways, it simply needs to adapt to such situations as other companies, which sell services or products, to adapt to the reality that exists today. Mr. President. Now I'm going to say again what I said at the beginning of my first talk. In none of the sectors that I remember, over the last few decades, there has been as much evolution as there has been media and media. Everyone involved in that work simply needs to apply the evolution that best they can. And I'm sure it's quite possible, State Radio ohf. has every opportunity to do so. It is simply a matter of giving the radio an opportunity to support itself and take a course from there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u109	Mr. President. As we have seen, it is a turning point to discuss on the part of us middle - class members to meet the problems we all know to be facing the private media. Even now, from the crown virus and the effect it has had on a number of businesses in the country, the basis for the international media in a real crisis is caused by bitter competition and widespread changes in the media over the years. In general, it is this way when it comes to supporting the public media that he is made in two ways. One is public funds that we know, such as. The government radio is enjoying, and in the form of use fees, some form, which is then a nose tax or radio bill, as we are here, and me and the middle class are suggesting a change. This is a wise change because it allows for each of the radio squares of the bill to account as much as one third of the cost to the media as it does to the government radio. Today, it is as if the payer has no choice as to where these funds go. It's a little special, to say the least, because you thought it would be democratically normal to have this price due to the other media. This suggestion is very moderate, as was shown in the speech of sharp. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, are working to further the media, which would allow this price to further its role. It is proper to consider only the role of the media and how they do their job better. This is vital, especially in the days in which we live today, when we see, for example. all kinds of false news, and how owners of media companies misuse their power in various ways. It has often been said that the media are the so - called fourth power, which is added to the three government support; the legislature; the legislative authority, the executive authority, and the jurist. We know that the role of the media is even. to communicate information and opinions to the general public. As a result, they exert tremendous influence on people's attitude. Therefore, it is essential that editors have the freedom to direct their media professionally without any news or discussion from owners and other stakeholders. However, it is common to believe that it is difficult to maintain a complete independent media, since it is inevitable to be influenced by someone, whether from owners, hosts, or journalists themselves. Also, the media have an important role in reflecting a wide variety of society. This suggestion is very important in this regard so that it does not ridicule the media. If, on the other hand, the government is going to strengthen the media by means of direct payment, there is a danger that the coverage could be somewhat colored. Here is the democratic way that each one can make the cost according to his own accord, which one would have thought was very sensible. To tell you the truth, I don't think that's the way I've been going. Of course, it is important that the media offer a wide variety of offers to promote as many views as possible, so personal and small media are important, especially when it comes to democratic and independent discussions. You need to be careful that this variety and that the media is not handled by a few people. There are some theories that have come up and laid the basis for the idea of the great authority that the media have, including the teaching of the program, sometimes heard. That is the power the media have to paint a certain picture of reality. They have the authority to choose which news to tell and how it should be said, which will inevitably affect the attitudes of viewers. So the media have great power. They have the authority to paint a certain picture of today's realities and to influence the opinions we make. What news is presented on the subject and how it is said to be of little importance. There are some factors that influence both inside and outside the media. When it comes to choosing news, reporters do not necessarily realize what they are doing. If we look at only the other North countries, the general policy is, in most cases, to keep public radio stations in the public sector out of competition for advertising markets at the same time as they compete with private drivers, viewers and listeners. That's how Norwegian national radio is almost completely free of advertising. The decrease in income and extensive cutting down of news offices and editors prevents managers from having the resources needed to turn to the public's real variety of media. Not long ago, Norway set up a committee that examined the media environment there. The committee felt that it was a great danger that the press's needed press work could exactly disappear before finding this sustainable network model for the media. So that is, and we see it now, very urgent to find a solution. That's why our proposal is very good. It is very simple in action and really undisputed. A person can assign the price himself, although only in part, this is a moderate suggestion, and this will go directly to the person. Here, the government has tried to go through a case called the media bill, trying to strengthen the press. It has been a great challenge for them to bring it up, and there has been a great disagreement among the government groups on this matter. In the meantime, a precious time is lost, and so it is very important to offer a simple solution, made up of this proposal that will definitely benefit all the media. How vital that we respond as soon as possible! It is a little informative, Mr. President, to consider the conclusion of a committee in Norway which suggested how to react to the media market there, but I see that time is getting pretty short to cross it. Norway has a rich understanding of the democratic role of the media, where large sums of money have gone from joint funds for years to strengthen the diversity and diversity of the Norwegian media. It is also pointed out that there is nothing else to do with the economic foundations of the media as they change for the better than to continue handsomely on that path. This is the Norwegian model. Norwegians want quite a bit of money so that real democracies can exist. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. As I said, this suggestion is simple. She is good and comes to deal with urgent problems. [[The president calls.]] I sure hope she has the support here and the quick treatment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u110	A respectable president. I just wanted as a messenger of the proposal to come up at the end of the discussion and thank you for a fine discussion and input. It is proper to assume that the whole issue is going to work out by increasing the freedom of those who pay the so - called nose tax that the TV is paying today alone. I think there's a solution here that solves the problem that has been thrown between the states and the politicians for a long time, how to support the private media at the same time as it manages to match the position of the private media as compared to the state-running medium. It is suggested that there are one - third where the currency is given in its own way. A third of the price is over 1.5 billion. Of course, it is likely never that everyone will choose to do this in a way that is different from today's. If we assume that about half of the currency uses it, maybe 800 million. K. Every year, something like that, but the media bill is working with a figure of 400 million. A.M., about. I think that this is how we've stepped more into supporting our private media, national reporting and reporting, and national programs. So I just want to encourage the entire body of Congress to accept this proposal well, and I hope that the discussion of the General and Education Committee will be good. For example, some will want to make arrangements for their fees for the morning or News magazine, others for DV, or the hour, and still others for football.net or some other sports medium. Some will be willing to support their local news services. In the northwest, there could be a Skesshorn, so the best of the town, Fesaka, Skaga News, Jack, and Hunahorn can be named. I think that much positive things are achieved by allowing individuals and paying them all part of the cost themselves. It also involves the entire amplifying of Kingdom Radio, that they could remain neutral and do their work conscientiously, just as the law says. But I'm not going to extend this discussion right now. I just hope there's something positive about it and good planning. I'm a member of the Central Party, and we strike a number of flies in one strike with this proposal. There may be one particular aspect that I would like to maintain at the end. No doubt, some will wonder: " What, then, is the prerequisite that it will just be made up of the amount of money paid by people who decide to make provision for other personal services? Of course, there is no point. It is not the purpose of this proposal, but there are other issues that need to come to an independent mind from this point of view, that is, the Kingdom News and the State TV campaign on a commercial market, and that is, for example, Would it not be proper to review the rules of honor, as a form of subscriptions to free media? Any factors involved in the taxation of advertisements, etc. should be considered.? Is there anything we can do with employee insurance? Of course, as we know, pay rates of cost are very high in the media. The completeness of this matter and will be carried out in this way by the free Senate not from taking up the discussion of the vacancy in a commercial market and then from other factors that can support the national media and press development, with the importance of supporting their private resources, both in news processing and in the development and in general programs. Finally, I thank you for the good discussion and wish for this council's resolution in the Central category.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u111	Mr. President. I would like to recommend an interpretation of a green-proven revolution. Transporters are members of the United States Congress. We suggest that the Allied Parliament, with regard to Iceland's global climate commitments during times of disaster and in the light of economic recessions, historical mass inactions and productions due to Korean pandemic, hides the government to take the following requisite measures to increase jobs, stimulate demand and support climate-friendly valuables in Iceland. Further implementation of the implementation of measures to be completed by May 1, 2021. We're gonna take some action, and I want to kill them a little bit. First, to establish a green investment fund owned by the government that supports climate-friendly job structure and the green high-tech industry. The government will place the fund at 5 billion dollars. ... inparty. The sea looks for cooperation with private investors, takes into account the government's climate action programme and the policy of the Scientific and Technical Council in all its activities, and fosters good governance in members of which it invests. Environment Minister on the Board of Governments, including... Following the appointment of a nature protection organization, a remuneration team, and a working team. Second, the Environment and Resource Minister has a pre-requisite for the development of a new climate action programme that accounts for 60% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 as compared to 2005. The aims of noncarbonization in the year 2040 will be set up in law, sharpening the role of independence and the maintenance of climate control against the governments and the management of climate. Third, construction by city line in the capital area will be accelerated, with 1.5 billion dollars. additional contributions to build a structure for bicycle riding next year. Better transport than that. will be assigned to speed up the construction of the transport contract of the capital area, which is a great deal of human resources, and to bring great benefits to the climate. At the same time, it will be supported to make it easier and preferable to travel between parts of the country by bus. Fourth, there will be targeted measures to speed up the energy exchange between the hives and the uterus. Briefly the development of heavy - power stations across the country, with the objective that the newly registered fuel and diesel trucks will be suspended from 2025 C.E. onward. The transport and distribution systems of electricity will be strengthened to put the system under increased stress, including electricalizations. In addition, contributions to Energy Fund will be doubled. In the fifth place, the state's funds have involved favorable loans to rural society due to climate-friendly investments and regional and community development will be increased by 800 million. K. In 2021, additional initiatives were made to attend a part of the country. sixth, a powerful campaign for forestry, land healing, and recovery of wetlands, birch forests, and bush will be under attack. Agricultural reform projects will be expanded, starting with a targeted work on a review of funding and tax environments to promote responsible land use and enable farmers to concentrate more fully on carbon binding, recovery of wetlands, and healing of damaged land. seventh, to establish an environment and gardening school with high school education to smoke in Elfus, access to technical education outside the capital area, to increase and support the development of a university bus in the East. There will be a short period of study-related labour market schemes for jobseekers and others with increased donations for staff, follow-up education, secondary education centres, job relocations and workplace training. 8th, there will be a group of workers on the structure of industry parks in Iceland where resource currents are multi-new and value pure energy maximise, such as building the food industry, biofuel production, biotechnology and gardening. In the ninth, a large increase in artist's payroll will be made available to cultural institutions that have lost income because of the ban on meeting. The remuneration of worth tax to the manufacturers of films and TV programs will be increased and taken in specific measures to make Iceland an ideal place for making film full - time. For one thing, a complete analysis of how to improve the order and the use of tax incentives to trust Iceland's competitiveness in innovation, research and development and ensure more economic and high-tech systems. Resources for Technical Development, Research Fund, and Industry Fund will be increased, and funding will finally be made available to support the European Union. These are the ten measures we take, but of course we want more suggestions in the progress of the matter at the council and thereafter by the government. The pandemic we face has caused global crisis and a historical economic recession in Iceland. More than 20,000 people are free of work, and demand has been highly contracted, investors are holding hands, and production factors are greatly ruined. At the same time, growth has been reduced to a minimum historically, whether for short-term or long-term growth. The current government's remuneration rates are therefore favourable, and in view of the production company in the economy, the multiplicity effects of public investments and a significantly higher use than in the usual annual journey. So, then, in these challenging circumstances, we suggest that the State's power take its place firmly and using the investment vector to support eco-efficiency across the country, to increase the production capacity of the population in the long term, and to support new resources in Iceland. The aim is to create valuable green jobs, promote infrastructure, increase job activities, and ensure that the economic impacts of the pandemic are consistent with the UN's global objectives for sustainable development. According to studies of economists of the Oxford Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment, in May 2020, based on interviews with third hundred economists and executives in fiscal conferences and dealerships around the world, investments in green innovations and development and distribution systems for renewable energy include the multi-effect economic boosters and thus ideals at recession times when production factors are ruined or malformed and new and investments in the private sector are frozen. This arrangement is based on the deep conviction that the 2040 aims of sustainable and noncarbonization are in good stead for higher quality of life and for the general public. With her approval and the implementation of the procedure, an important step would be taken toward a more sustainable and better community in Iceland. The UN Interim Committee on Climates has estimated that 2.5% of world production is needed annually to limit warming at 1.5 °C compared to the average pre- industrial temperature. All studies show that the next five to ten years are crucial to mankind and to our planet's ecosystems. We know that the richest 10% of the world's population is responsible for half of the greenhouse gas emissions, but the consequences of that emissions are the most severe of the world's poorest nations. Thus, the battle against disaster is an integral part of the battle against global inequities and the responsibility of rich nations, as Iceland is therefore very much. Unfortunately, we Icelanders have not done well enough in these last few decades. Since the year 2015 that Iceland wrote under the Paris Convention, emissions have continued to increase progressively. Clearly, the government's operation program is too high, and the government's recent goals are too blurred. In October 2020, the European Parliament agreed to achieve 60% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. The Danes have gone even further and are now moving toward 70% reduction. Iceland, on the other hand, is a submerged of the neighboring countries and the European Union, but the current climate crisis programme expected 35% to decrease, which was then increased to 55%. It is not really financed, and it has not clearly been demonstrated in the way above the head should do so. You see, Iceland has every opportunity to, well, if it's not a big deal on climates then at least Set a fine example for many other nations and be equal to those who are foremost. The use of renewable energy has created some special facilities in Iceland, but Iceland became the first country to use the global warming long before the United Nations Climate Convention was created in 1992 and has been responsible for the export of knowledge into such innovations. We've seen that the National Resource Park on Smokenes, where energy plants are used for a wide range of sectoral and valuables, may be a textbook on application instruments involving sustainable development and forward thinking. Similarly, growth is similar in sustainable energy efficiency in the Northeast, under the company's proposals, where rural and energy companies work together for innovation and improved energy resource use. Finally, Icelandic companies and scientists have developed revolutionary technical solutions to climates, which have said to be the least of the world's attention. This is the only place in the world where carbon dioxide is captured and discarded and pumped into the earth. All these projects contribute to the development of sectoral and valuables on the basis of sustainable development, innovation and high-tech development and respond to the call that the Icelandic job needs so much to increase the support to our activities so that we limit the risk created by intervening regional failure. And I think they also answer much better when our young people call for future jobs. I think it's clear that the market elements do not solve the climate problem on their own. This includes measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as well as measures to bind and dispose of carbon. For Iceland to be able to achieve significant results in sustainable development and green development, the government needs to take the initiative and lead the way. But we must not forget that there will be no reconciliation for rapid energy exchanges and changes in the way we live and job life unless we also have a point of well - being so as to ensure that there will not be a total cost in income groups or scattered populations. I see my time is running out, so I'm going to get this over with. I have to mention at the end that we plan that the actions presented here will be at the cost of about 20 billion dollars. Which makes me doubt that the government can only, in effect, increase its goals in climate matters without any cost. We feel, however, that this is not the cost of cost because this effort and measures will increase the growth of growth, increase in working, and make it easier for Iceland to live up to its international commitments. In addition to the growth of public transport, energy exchange efficiency, improved land use, green infrastructure, and the organized development of industrial parks, of course, is also suggested to promote intelligent industry, innovation and development, art and culture. But with all of this, we might prosper in creating much more diversity in Icelandic living, which we so really need, and to create a better, and especially a much more fun society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u112	A respectable president. I come up here because I want to support this case and I would have liked to be on it. I believe that the goals there are good and that we should work together to fulfill them. I think it's very important that we pursue more sustainable and humanised employment in Iceland. I think this motion rhymes well with Pirata's proposal for sustainable industrial policy, I think it can work well together. I would like to encourage the Senate to study these suggestions and to overcome the lines between government and government opposition when it comes to discussing them and moving them through the council. I think the government should be a little more ambitious in its plans when it comes to climate and might listen to others other than itself from time to time when it comes to how it should be done. I suggest she learn at least These suggestions and see if it is possible to support them, since they seem to be just fine, and because the government has declared that she wants to do better than it is doing right now. So I suggest that we try to work this case fast and well, along with the sustainable industrial policy of Pirata and some other good greens that we find here in various areas around the council, which do not necessarily belong to the government class. I just wanted to state my support for this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u113	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u114	President. This is a reimbursement of a language we moved to spring to postpone forced halls. We're facing the Covid crisis, it's starting. By November, the work agency's website identified a total of 12%, well over 20,000 people who have to run their homes and who face the fact that this business is not necessarily going to work. Our financial secretary mentioned that we were standing before the worst crisis in a century, so we felt that it was time to immediately start putting on the table what was done during our last crisis. True, it took a whole year of collapse to submit the first bill for the postponement of forced halls, but we have become accustomed to this. It's something the Council knows well. This is something society knows well. What we want to do by offering a bill for delaying the forced hall is to remind us that it is time for such a message, such a first step, to be sent to the community that people will not have to worry about having financial problems because of Covid's having to lose their homes. It's a message that gives people security. Each rescue package has been delivered for the job. There have been rescue packages for individuals, but there have not been a complete household rescue package, so people can keep their homes. It's interesting to cross the clock and see when this has happened before. On October 21, 2009, a year after God's Kingdom, Iceland may be able to bless its speech, perhaps formally the beginning of the crash in Iceland, or when people in general became conscious of how bad the situation was, they laid the top. Minister of Justice for the bill on the continuation of forced sales, then the Rona of the YearRagna Árnadóttir. That is interesting, since she is now the head of the council office. After her New Year's Eve, February 24, 2010, she again proposed such a bill. 2012 it was the Ögmundur of Jónasson, then the Minister of Justice and Human Rights. Then, on December 10 more of the Economic and Business Committee jointly proposed bill 2013 and that same year, just before the end of the year or December 10, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, gave it to Hannah Kristjánsdóttir. Minister of the Interior, forward the bill and then back in 2014. So this is something we know well, it's a constitution, law, expectations, and we know it's working. This has meant that many homes, many Icelanders, many families did not lose their most precious property, their security, their home. It's time to put this on the table and we want to direct it to the parties and to the Board of Education, where this matter has always been won, to work fast and hard. There may be a number of viewpoints that may change the case, but I would like to reiterate that this is in harmony with the case held by Hanna Kristjánsdóttir Kristjinnsdótttir, the highest. The minister of the Independence Party, submitted at its time, both at the end of 2013 and in September 2014. The bill is really very simple. The report says, with permission from the President: And if more than one tolerance is served, it will be requested to come from the common. It is mandatory that housing should be prepared according to the planning and construction authorities, where there will be no legal home, and homes to be maintained. The focus is not on those who may be in some way, but on people's homes, the homes of their families, and on the continuation of this period. I'd like to refer to the household's Habitat Association. It was the International Economic Organization that stood up during the last crisis, took care of it, and pressured the government to postpone forced halls, including the U.S. and other resources so that families did not lose their homes. As told by the Human Rights Association of the Homes, from both this time in the spring when we passed the case last and then again to this case we are discussing, it says, by permission of the president: ▪ This bill suggests that tolerance may wish for the forced sale of an apartment building where he will have a home and a home to be suspended until December 1, 2021. This proposal is in full agreement with the actions established by the National Institutes of Economic Affairs, which have emphasized to take the initiative to protect the homes from the negative effects of a new colony's pandemic, and will have the economy and the financial standing of their households in the near future. A total of 20,252 persons were unemployed in the overall improvement system at the end of October and 4,759 in a decrease in employment rate, a total of 25,011 persons, according to employment data. By then, thousands have searched for the deadlines for the bank's mortgage. Intensification has increased since the end of the bill and there is a tinge on the interest of the households. The financial and economic minister has declared that the worst crisis can be expected for a hundred years, even worse than the one that broke down the banks in 2008. No one is confident to predict how long that crisis will take place, but it is clear that not all homes will turn out well. A delay in combustion will not solve everyone's problem, although it is important to the initial response, but to many, only uncertainty will arise when the postponement is over. I just want to come in there and point out that you can extend your deadline and do it on time. This is a suggestion to do things in time so that people do not have undue concern over jobs, on top of a decrease in employment rate, above having lost their job or their livelihood, that they can also lose their home. You can start the case right away in the process of a universal and educational committee, you can work it, and work it together to determine what is the right time and send it out to society. If there is a need to extend the deadline as the contracture extends and the need remains, then, as last time, it can be done on time. It has been done six times since the last collapse, first one year after the collapse, and the last six years later. I shall now return to the custody of the household's Internal Affairs, the final paragraph, by permission of the President: This is an important part of providing shelter for the households in the unprecedented economic conditions that have come up. The domestic economists sense a great sense of concern and fear among the public about the disposal of their homes in the coming losses. A delay in forced halls would send strong messages and comfort those who have such legitimate concerns. Therefore, the organization strongly recommends that this bill be approved as a law at this time. Under the review, publications are written on behalf of the House of Hagsam Austi Lóa Thorsdóttir and Guðmundur Ásgeirsson. I propose, Mr President, that this case will go to the General and Education Committee and be treated in general. The deadline is three weeks. There are still two meetings in the General and Education Committee, I presume, and can be sent to the case immediately in a narrative process so that at the beginning of the year, there will be reviews and visitors can begin. Then we can immediately send the clear message that we are concerned about this crisis that the secretary of finance has said could be worse than the collapse of the bank, to step in and get the homes to safety. Send them a message that's what we're going to do, not just put our jobs in the shelter that had to be done, but also to get the homes to the shelter they've got after the collapse. But because we know the story, we'll be right back in the fall and send this message right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u115	A respectable president. We here discuss an important matter that is about taking steps to ensure that this crisis does not cause people to lose their homes, so simple. This does not cover all who are at risk of losing their homes, but it involves a group of people whom we certainly do not want to lose their homes because of the pandemic crown virus and its economic crisis. I have to say, I'm surprised the government hasn't taken this step myself -- or surprised, I think it's at least that I'm sorry, because that's when it's over, 'cause there's more to it at the council. So I must encourage and approve more parts of this council to work quickly, as we must agree that we do not want people to lose their homes because of a pandemic crown virus and its economic crisis. This is where we give people some time to sort out their affairs to keep their homes, keep them safe, and keep them safe during this situation. This is an important matter, and I hope it will be done quickly and well for the benefit of the country's well-being.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u116	President. I am proud that it is my party that takes the initiative that this matter is on the agenda tonight and that we will discuss it at the Senate Hall this time under these difficult conditions in society, society, and the whole world. This matter is a matter of justice, and it is important to take immediate action. That's why, as shown in a case. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson, is important that we have come now and that there is something now to make sure that even now people who live in the loss of their jobs, the imminent loss of employment, and the insecurity of their livelihood, do not need to worry about losing their homes. It is important to act immediately. I'm the highest. A government to keep its eyes and ears open to this matter and to take immediate action that is needed to pass through here at council. The case may show how Piratar and I approach things, what our priorities are; our homes in the country. We've seen a quick and in many cases an excellent response to the problems of our companies in these difficult Covid times, but our homes are as important as here we show what our priorities are. This is the real right of people to be in this welfare country, Iceland, to ensure this security now that we face such a catastrophe. This situation has brought tremendous stress to our community, to all of us and to all the homes, and I just keep most people with me for a number of reasons. Stress is a known public health problem. Therefore, it is the real function of the State and our work here to put us under the influence of things that can reduce stress and public health problems. This case is completely offered to the point that it will provide security and that people will not need to worry about losing their homes, which is often a sacred place for many. President. Of course, I expect the Generals and the government to show this humanity to those who, due to the absolutely beyond control conditions of this Covid epidemic, may be in a very bad, unpleasant position that threatens their safety and shelter. We're supposed to be such a community, and I believe we want to be such a community. We want Iceland, the welfare state, to live up to that name. All of us have the advantage of showing understanding, compassion, compassion, and compassion toward one another, and we have done so in many ways in this situation. Here, though, is a recipe for a second step in this regard. I encourage the entire assembly to accept this matter, to overcome it, and to add to the success of this community in which we live.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u117	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the health insurance legislation. The bill is about reimbursement of costs, but the 2008 health insurance law. This is the third time I recommend this case, and the restoration has made progress, but it has not been established in the council to date. It is clear that there is no will for the government classes to pass this issue through. This means that waiting lists will need to be improved, that hip and joint replacement operations will be performed at home so that we can push people out of waitings in a positive way, and that we can significantly improve their quality of life. This is far more practical for the state and for the national economy. Sadly, the groups, the independent party, the left - green and forward group, have not wanted to speak up and include the results. express our suggestions in connection with the budget to meet this group. The main reason is that it is government policy not to negotiate with independent healthcare professionals, in this case people who can cope with pain victims. Usually hip or joint replacements are being replaced, and we also see that waiting lists are being extended elsewhere, e.g. For the Psychological Service. But that's another story. Since the passage of Covid into the country at February/mar, the survival of the month has not been delayed, conditions have not improved. On the contrary, there is no greater need for priorities in this council. This matter must be set in advance to meet people who are on the list. In the fall of this year, Governor Alma Möller expressed his view that the Korean epidemic had brought out certain health problems. The weaknesses depend on hospital care, health care care, and loss of space. In other words, caring for basic services is difficult for the public. Although much has been done well and men and women have tried to do their part, it is simply that the public system is heavy, and it is mainly a lack of man's resources and space that has led to problems handling the models, especially when the system is hard to deal with, incessible, incessible for governments, to turn to independent active parties. No matter how well it works for the entire public, especially for those who are on the list. In that same interview I quoted earlier, a surgeon said that it was necessary to look at units outside the public system to meet the waiting list problem that has increased in recent years. I think we should take Alma Möller at the word. In other words, this bill, even though it is being proposed for the third time, is quite appropriate to what the surgeon was pointing out. It is not an acceptable provision for public funds to send persons who have been on the waiting list and have broken pain pills while waiting, to hip and joint replacement surgery to Sweden instead of negotiating with independent active bodies at home who perform exactly the same procedure. And more important: It is often the same doctors who take action in private affairs at home, but it is not to be negotiated because it is not in agreement with government policy. That's why it's better to send people to Sweden to private cocaine there. And if you know, more often than not, a doctor from home is sent along with the group and the individuals around are up to 3 billion. K. It's more than twice as expensive to go this way than caring for patients here at home. Of course, this is not an acceptable, dignified president. The bill focuses on putting the needs of patients in first place and turning aside from the government's official policy of becoming more a center of contempt for personal resources. This policy is not dominant, since it ultimately puts the needs of patients, not first, but very much back. The independent party has chosen to keep quiet, a class that once taught itself about freedom, and is content with silent consent to the approach that I consider to be the approach of a health minister to this system. It has been helpful to observe members of the Independence Party in the others and these matters. We can see that it is not long before the test. The members of the Independence Party are concerned about the others and these matters, but not this. They have simply not said anything, not even expressed their concern that the contribution of the private enterprise is not being made to ease the suffering of people on the list. No one's ever come to talk about this. Everyone has voted against our proposals in connection with the budget and has prevented this sort of case from being removed from the committee for votes. So much is freedom from that town. Of course, we are familiar with the emphasis of the left green, and we can give the highest credit. A minister for the determination to achieve more and less operation under the Kingdom when this action is due. All right. We know what we're going to do there. They don't want to go to parties outside the public system. I would also like to refer to the list of waiting lists formed from psychology services and similar clinical treatments, behavioural treatments. The way outside the public system is not to be strengthened to help people. The above - mentioned measures do not include government, health care, or hospital, and these measures are not to be taken at all. I think it's very shortsighted. The needs of the patients are not being focused on, on the individual needs. I'm not saying the state shouldn't come to affairs at all. But we have to be able to care for the needs of these individuals, and if you have to go to a private person, we will. I can respect the health minister's examination, even though I disagree with her at all times. I have said so out loud many times, and Correction has made a case but has not received support from other groups who claim to be free. In the meantime, because they don't have to go on, they start making court reviews, and people start to melt their pain pills. We've tried to push it for three years, and repeatedly presented a bill, put in order to change the budget, to improve the quality of the people, and to shorten a waiting list, which I would have thought was the priority of the government, in vain. It is relatively simple to allow Iceland's Medical Insurance to negotiate with an independent organisation as long as they meet the conditions that may include: within the framework of the EEA partnership. It is a little tricky to keep this debate over and over again, but we present the matter to stress that there are solutions to the waiting list problem. Because it's the highest. Agricultural minister named the word lifestyle, so I think courting is about to become the lifestyle of this government. It is no different when there are no underlying issues like these, when our proposals are incorporated, suggestions to prevent waiting lists from forming. It is the life - style of this government to shape and form a waiting list. The strange situation exists that Iceland's health insurance does not consider itself permitted to pay the cost of similar measures in Iceland. The political message is that the Agency is not authorized to do this, although an operation is made by a person who meets all legal conditions. It simply doesn't fit in the ideological box of the government to make these actions here at home. If we look at the situation they are today, the pandemic has made all travel more difficult. People have had to delay all kinds of action, but nothing happens to the government. Thus, the result is even longer waiting lists. Is there a vision of the future being drawn instead? No. The only thing that happens when such suggestions come up is that the independents, the advanceers, and the left go automatically to the red button and reject any means to get everyone to work on deck to solve the waiting lists. There's always the answer no, if there's any solution other than loading people into the public system with its own lists. We see a waiting list developing from a psychological service, it has been added to the health care system because of the psychological services, but no other contact should be consulted. No, says the government, just no - it's incredibly shortsighted. I would like to ask people to remember that there are some people who can well provide defined public service. This is not about paying off in the system. This refers to specific services, procedures, goals. The cost of each operation is perfectly clear. The goal is to get a solution, to get a service when needed. The policy of this government is not to be served, although it can be given here in the country, but to allow people to have it nice or other things, but rather on the lists. We are not threatening constant access to health care by acknowledging that there are more than the State that can perform a certain service. But let us acknowledge the problem we face when it is time to shorten a waiting list. I would have seen a plan from the government in order to solve the list problem, that she would have said: "We're not gonna have people on the waiting list in three months, not after replacement surgery, hip surgery, not after the psychological services or other services they're looking for, because we're going to put extra money in the hospital, we're going to solve the design problem so we're going to finish the waiting list. But that is not even a plan that is set out. It's just the end, the lid, the lock. That does not mean putting matters in a committee. It's been something like that with this government. We at the convention asked exactly how many committees had been appointed, and groups, of this government. It ran at hundreds. It doesn't mean to set these issues, let alone health issues, back into a committee, and take a closer look at them. There is a shocking message to people in waiting lists, many of which have been waiting for months and some for years. It's simply not an acceptable, respectable president, it's not working. We are making a final try during this final season, but if God promises, this will change over the next terms. If and when we gain construction into government, we will stress the use of all parties, public parties as well as private members to carry out the services our people need, whether within the health system, the social or the educational system. We must not allow prejudice to dominate or challenge us or, with all due respect for the direction of the left green, ideologically old politics. Most important, I want to direct my words to the people on contending as freedom lovers, open - minded, and therapeutic, saying that we must try to ensure the outworking of this matter. We can't take more time to do nothing about the list problem. To the government classes, I say: Try to shake off the life - style of building a waiting list on top. I would like to reiterate my encouragement to those who are freedom-sufficient and expressive, and I would like to reiterate my encouragement to those who are here at the council and want to help: it is possible to change. It just needs to be. All it takes is power. I would like to emphasize that many cases have been considered on a committee, and this is the third time we make that statement. I hope to do so and to sharpen the welfare committee's efforts to settle matters quickly so that we give it to people who are waiting and send a clear message that we are going to take care of it. Although these people were there for weeks, months, and years, we are going to take care of them. And we're going to shorten the waiting list, we're going to serve people. It does not necessarily matter whether they are the State or the private servants who render the ministry. Let us say to the people, " We're going to put your arms around you. ' We are all going to be on the same team as that. They need to think of the guidance the surgeon gave us exactly during the interview that I mentioned when she said that it would be necessary to look to non-public units to meet the waiting problems we have faced. And we've faced that problem all this terms because the government has little or nothing to do with it. There is no one here talking about private business, as many people would like to say when it comes to talking or making it suspicious, or simply putting matters on hold, as this government is tamed. If any government is going to be able to set up in Iceland twice the health system, it's this government. The government will be at the command of the left green, forwarding party and the Independence Party if they are not going to do anything about the court list. Though they have the tools and tools to solve the situation, it must be in the order of this government to establish a double health system. I don't think that's a good idea. Therefore, we need to have clear, defined goals, laws, and regulations on this bill. With all the experts, those who are independent and those who work at the government, to get people out of these lists, let's put their arms around them wherever they are. This bill is a chance to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u118	A respectable president. I'm here on bill as a song on the change in credit laws, No. 50/1988, with subsequent changes, for aid tools. It's the language of Inga Sæland and Flock's people, that the case stands as a party of the people as he goes. Besides, this bill is Hrafn Gunnarsson's Helgi. In 1st. says: "After 6 mg. 2.g. The law's coming up with a new paragraph, as follows: 2 mg. Twenty-six. Law on Health Care, No. 112/2008, extenuating tax obligations. 2. par.: This law is already valid. The bill was previously submitted to the 150th legion (326th case) but failed to succeed. The bill is suggested as an aid tool, according to 2 mg. Twenty-six. Law on Health Care, No. 112/2008, they'll be running out of respect for extra tax. The term "helper " is defined as a tool designed to reduce disability, to help disabled persons cope with their environment, to increase or maintain their skills and ability to care or to provide care for them. At the same time, the aid device must be considered necessary and convenient to facilitate daily activities. Iceland's health insurance pays or participates in the purchase of appliances according to specific regulations, in accordance with Regulation No. 15155/2013 of auxiliary strength, with subsequent changes, but users often have to pay themselves for a fraction of the cost. The objective of the bill is to balance the situation between users who need such tools and to ease their economic burden. While the bill's impact on government income would not be significant, government funds already pay much of the valuable tax collected from these products. The estimated expenditures for helpers in the bill for 2021, that is, the 1st case, in the 151st legislation Council, are about 6 billion dollars. This amount is about 95% reimbursed, with a remuneration rate of 90%. Substitution of the value tax, typically 24%, reduces the income of the state's budget by over $1 billion. The scope of aid force in the Regulation shows the size and scope of the aid tools involved. Surprisingly, this class is quite a class, but it is quite strange that not long ago these needed tools for disabled persons and for motorists and our senior citizens are worth no taxes. In the Regulation on rescue devices, in chapter I, the President's rights are as follows: In accordance with local regulations, patients are entitled to be funded for support. The health insurance is the one who lives in Iceland who has been at least one of the most. During the past six months, health insurance benefits are requested to meet other health insurance criteria, unless another result of treaties, cr. 10th par. Act on health insurance. Farming refers to a legal home in the sense of law - abiding law. Children less than 18 years of age living in this country have health insurance with their parents. The same is true of stepchildren and foster children. Other measures apply to those in this country who are considered medically secure by the regulations set out in 10◯16. par. Act on health insurance. Iceland's health insurance decides if a person is considered a health insurance agent. Two. is a definition of help tools. It says, under the permission of a president: ▪ Help tools are a tool designed to reduce disability, help the disabled to cope with their environment, increase or maintain performance and ability to provide care or care for them. The tool must also be considered necessary and convenient to facilitate daily activities. Six. A mechanical strength directive is referred to as an aid for hearing and visual acuity. It says, under the permission of a president: To obtain aid for hearing impaired, deaf, and those who have hearing and speech disorders according to law No. 42/2007, about a deaf and speech path station. In the case the health minister has given anyone other than a hearing and speech clinic the authority to sell headphones, a person may switch to that person because of the purchase of hearing devices. The strength to those with hearing disorders depends on the Regulation No. 1118/2006, of the government's payment initiatives provided by a hearing and speech Pathology centre, and of the Regulation No. 146/007, about strength from the purchase of hearing aids in non-hearing and speech clinics. The Service and knowledge centre for blind, visual acuity, and deaf blind individuals is responsible for the distribution of specific tool tools, such as law No. 160/2007, of the Blinding, Visually impaired and Blind-blind Service and Knowledge Center. Here earlier today, under the council, I pointed to amazing things. If we look, for example. Pays and scholarships for children who need glasses are found to be 3,500,7500. on glass. In the case of particularly strong visual glasses and severe visual acuity, there are additional additional 500 to 1,500 k. on glass, depending on the strength. However, the parents'cost of wearing glasses may be 40,000 to 60,000 dollars. In between, there's the sky and the sea. In between, there are almost ten times the difference that tells us that it is completely wrong, as it turns out that these amounts have not been updated for nearly 15 or 20 years. Of course, there is serious shame that we should accept that the parents of children who need glasses for some reason are in a situation where they are, in effect, financially beyond their ability to provide the necessary equipment for them to see properly, even read and learn. And what if there are two, three children in that family who need this help, is an intolerable burden for the family to provide funds to help their children? In some cases these children may need even two, three glass a year, so these costs can still increase. In this context, it is surprising that children's hearing aids are fully paid from a wealth but are not glasses. You get kind of dumb when you see it over and over again, like this ridiculous discrimination. We have seen this in various forms in our health system. The most remarkable thing about it is that you always think you can't see more discrimination, but it keeps getting bigger. This is really just a gross demonstration of discrimination, an incomprehensible discrimination between children, and a dramatic blow when we think of being equal. I don't see how you're supposed to feel that if you don't hear it, it's okay to pay the cost all the time, but if you don't see it wrong, then you don't have to make it all right. This needs to be changed. If we look at some things people don't realize, then there are help tools that people need - I have, for example. it was said that if a person has an elevator for a wheelchair in his car, it is paid down 100%, so that it is not supported by subsidies, but at the same time, people are making it impossible to save their financial resources by e.g. to move an elevator from one car to another, especially when it is not possible to use the same elevator in electrical vehicles as regular mineral - powered vehicles. Then a person will not receive the one who wants to save the country a fortune. We've got all kinds of crazy shit in the system. The system also has an amazing number of different tools. There are help tools for treating and training; support tools, splints, artificial joints, orthopaedic shoes, artificial items other than artificial limbs, relief tools for personal treatment and aid tools for handling tools, career aid tools and equipment for transport, household equipment, communication aids, information and warning tools, and tools for handling tools or items. This shows that there are incredibly different things that need to be done. Similarly, for those in need of a special vehicle, driving training is strengthened. There, only 70% of this cost, which is considerable, is of particular value to those on the striped disability reforms. Then it's a big cost, and then it'll also come in here for a little extra tax, but it'd cut something off if it was taken away. The package leaflet in the Regulation also states the definition of who is entitled to these tools. There are, for example. A pensioner, one who has suffered a disability card from a government insurance agency or is 67 years of age or older, children and adolescents under 18 years of age. And then there's a shopping warrant from Iceland's Medical Insurance that goes either one, five or ten years. Iceland's Medical Insurance Association is a 50%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, or even 100% tool payer. But buying help tools and paying only 50% of the cost can be devastating because some of these tools are enormously expensive. They cost enormous amounts of money, especially if there are electrical aid tools that people need to access to, and they have virtually no other kind of aid tools to move between places, e.g. ... sortof amoney. It tells itself that it would remember immensely if it were without a merit tax. I really hope that this bill will be approved, so we don't have to measure it again in a year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u119	A respectable president. I measure here for the second time a bill that I propose to change the law of graveyards, burials and cremations. This matter of Congress simply goes on to give or increase freedom when it comes to remains of the body. Today, we have rather old laws on cemeteries, burial, and cremation. Of course, we have a very specific frame around our cemeterys and how to handle them and then you can apply to having your remains burned. Then there's a very strict line on what to do with the ashes. In other words, it must be placed in a vessel, and it shall be buried in cemeteries. However, it can be applied for a minimum of that provision, formerly for the Ministry, now for a businessman, to distribute the ashes, but it can only be done over deserts or seawaters. It's really the part of the law I want to change and the time to change. I've got along with me in this matter of shipping from most categories here at the council. With me, this case is open to me. Councilmen Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Guðjónna Brjánsson Brjánnsson, Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, Sæland Góland, Bea Leví Gunnarsson, and Andrés Ingi Jónsson. I'm going to say, a respectable president, that after I presented this case at the time of last year and then again, I have received a number of phone calls and telegrams and mail shipments on the importance of changing these laws and hearing all sorts of stories and viewpoints that I think are very important to be placed here at the council scene. I believe, and those who travel, that there is a reason to have this liberty, and that the people should have their own place of the night. In the movies, you often see the remains of an earthly people being spread over beautiful land, water, or some forest, and even some of the memories are involved. But it is not allowed today, and when people apply for this special command, the ashes should be distributed in a desert or across the sea, and they can only be in one place. It's not an option to spread ashes elsewhere, and these places must not be marked at all. As I began digging through this, I was told that in many northern countries, it was far more free than here, though there are rules around it. Then it was specifically stated that the forest groves had set a tradition where people could spread ashes and put memories on trees. I published a paper with the bill information provided by the Parliament's Information Service, which says, for example. that in Denmark the ashes may be spread across the open ocean, but the bishop may be authorized to use the ashes in a different way. In Finland, the ashes of a deceased person should be treated with dignity and a recollective memory may be distributed, e.g. Over water or land, the director of a firehouse must therefore only leave the ashes for burial, or place in a permanent place. Within a year, the ashes must be buried or placed in a permanent place. However, the owner or authority of a country where the ashes are placed must be obtained. In Norway, the county grants permission for the distribution of ash, and in Sweden, ashes can be distributed elsewhere than in a cemetery to the local domain government. Such permission is granted only if the site where the ashes are to be distributed is considered suitable and visually treated with respect. I state that, of course, the fact that this is being treated with respect is quite a factor. I mentioned earlier what you see in movies, but here I am talking about the northern countries, which we've often seen in the legislation as this, and I think it's a reason to look at it. Of course, many of them are free. No one will ever have a particular view of that. Living people simply receive the dust box and can determine whether it is on the fireplace, the ashes being dispersed, whether the ashes are spread within some time or spread in many places, or put up some memory shield or other. As a result, although we have a rigid law frame on this and that the campers are not allowed to deliver the powder carts unless they have applied and signed what they are going to do with it and what else, I believe, and, in fact, evidence has come to pass, that here is the spread of the ashes of the deceased without any record or anywhere else applied for it. For instance, news pictures of a person's distributing the ashes of a loved one over the island of Seljaland have been published, and I imagine that even those who have more freedom in those areas do not think that there is a particular need to be applied for permission for such things. But I also noticed, and you start thinking in a peculiar way when you start to think about this matter, that when I was checking into flights for Covid, when people were still travelling, there was a sign at the table where the checking was made out what may be brought with them in a carry-on. Of course, there are many rules about creams and cosmetics and other than powders. It's all right, then, to travel with ash in your arms. Clearly, it is common to have it specifically checked in. A loving friend had to go outside and pick up the remains of a deceased loved one, and I was very concerned that the person could not make it to the country, leaving a number of different flights between many countries, but the least of which was to take the ashes in his backpack through a number of flights. It tells me that maybe it's time to change this and natural that the individual himself can make a request for the handling of the remains, i.e. We wish to be burned and desired that the ashes be distributed in a specific way, and we should, of course, trust all others to respect their wishes. I also wanted to review that there has been a considerable increase in the number of funerals. I think it was a why. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, who asked the Minister of Justice at 149 C.E. for the proportion of funerals and regular funerals, had become a funeral of 35% of all funerals. Then there was the question of how much space we would need under the cemetery for a long time. Clearly, the answer is that in such programs, we expect there to be an even greater increase in the number of burnings. This has been the course of evolution, with all likelihood of continuing to develop. I'm not going to talk down graveyards at all, I think cemeterys are pretty. I personally go to celebrations and remember dead relatives by lighting candles, and I think church gardens serve a great deal of social and cultural work. But saying that not everyone wants to rest until all eternity and wants their remains to be treated differently, which makes me feel that we should open to it. But I'm also going to mention in this case that, of course, the cemetery would take up land space, and we now know from the vicinity that there was a great deal of building conflict because there was a cemetery at the time. However, we have developed it so that by increasing the number of funerals, it can be determined, buried in a dead relative's grave, or in a common tomb in a cemetery. But there are special gardens for this, unsuspecting, and well done with it. But I don't think there's any reason why I don't give you the freedom to distribute the ashes if it's desired. I've also been asked because people here have ideas of building certain monuments, the Tree of Life is to form one of the companies I've received information about, they want to build up these memorials and develop certain services around them. As I said earlier, many people have made contact and have expressed great interest in the fulfillment of this matter. I wonder if I have to say a lot more, I think it's so set up. I was going to direct it to the General and Education Committee that in this bill I actually only agree to what is today, that ash should be put in a duster from perishable materials, and that it is permitted to continue digging them and then follow the rules about it. On the other hand, I am just opening up to respect the wishes of the deceased and distributing the ashes to the deceased. Then you can also wonder, and that is one of the indications that have been included in this discussion, what I would call converging in the cemetery. I now feel that the structure is based on some places and in some places is not at all. However, one might well imagine building a cityyard and setting up areas for the family. I myself remember walking about these things, talking to church parks, in Hong Kong, where families actually had their own closets or their houses, and the carts were either buried or in their closets, and there was a beautiful place where people put ornaments and other items related to dead relatives, obviously coming together when they wanted to remember their relatives and had a beautiful moment. Although the bill here assumes that the dust can be used today, i.e. that they are buried, and it reminds me that there's at least 1 m down, so you can also wonder if it should open even further onto it. But the big thing is, I feel that the distribution of ash is going to be made free, and we stop picking on it so much, and we have strong opinions about where and how people can distribute the ashes and mark the fields specifically.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u120	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator of history. Of course, this is an interesting subject. I'd like to pray for a second. A senator getting closer to the person's memory shield if the dead man's wish was in such a way that the ashes would be distributed as instructed to be allowed in the bill, which is, in fact, not permitted today. What would happen with a memory shield, if it were. A senator wanted to go over it a little bit better? Then I'd like to get a second opinion. A senator on a world plot. It's a set of freedoms, it's the bill, and I see why. A senator is interested in the free distribution of ashes, and that's only fine. But now the world's world is not allowed today. It's not allowed to start a new world area. If we travel through the country and its countryside, we will see that in some towns, there are densies and that my judgment is excellent. They are culturally valuable, I would say, where families often lived in that place. That's what I'm talking about. A senator of the belief to look into the matter of allowing even the world scene again, perhaps with some limitations, e.g. by allowing a body of dust to be a funeral plan? [[The president calls.]] In case of a moment. A senator might come in for a bit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u121	A respectable president. For a memory sign or such, to mark places in some way, I've seen beautiful pictures of it, e.g. Tree groves where people get to spread their ashes, and people get to put a memory shield on a tree in the garden. Similarly, you have seen it even in benches or other such. Of course, this would depend on the possession of a land owner, so if it were a public authority, it would be up to them to decide what they would do or not. Of course, no ashes can be distributed on someone else's land without the approval of a landowner. But I see, for example. none of the reasons why these fields can be marked in any way. But I'm going to say one thing that I forgot to come on, that there's a reason to give it up so that a uterus file-- am I not saying properly, am I not? - will be in effect, I think it's important that we do. I must admit, in the face of global work, because I was so interested in this matter that I did not specifically examine it. But I think about it when I went through the law. That's it. It's like a whisk. A senator knows better than I do, very specific conditions. They can be in the family temples. If the earth has not been buried there for a period of time, people can take it away from their homes. Nevertheless, I think giving more freedom with the distribution of ashes should make it easier for those who want to rest in the world's fields and be with shields or others there, whether by distributing the ashes themselves or by burying them. I don't deal with it in this bill. I'm actually talking about the burial of the vessels still in a cemetery. So I wouldn't feel a problem at all. A global and educational committee would also adopt it in their review of this bill and review of the law because it has certainly only arrived for its years. Although this is something that doesn't change, i.e. We're born and we're gonna die, and then we can totally watch it with new glasses sometimes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u122	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer, and I'm glad to hear it. A senator would be interested in visiting a global plant in this context. I think there's a good reason for that. But I feel only vague about these memories, whether they might be a little tricky, and if it could make it a little bit of a release on this record. Like today, e.g. a website called viur.is where the person can be looked up and in any cemetery, etc. If this arrangement were to be taken up, it might be a bit complicated. See what? A senator - w. A senator mentioned a grove of trees - that it would be written in some way? That may not be the case if there was no registration, if that was the case. A senator could cross it? I think it's a little vague. Now I don't know exactly how this project is being carried out in other parts of the North countries where it's permitted. It would be a natural novelty here in Iceland. Watch your step. A senator handled these things a little better?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u123	A respectable president. I'm more about it in my report that I feel free, and then I'm actually suggesting that we take it out of the law not to mark that places where ash is scattered. There's still a jurisdiction in the law, so I think this would have to be done in a Regulation, but my will is that it be free of charge. I take as an example when people get lost, and they can't be buried, and I have an example, and then we have a beautiful set of memories, a rock with memories. We have beautiful fields about dead sailors and those who have been lost at sea, where they can be remembered. I saw this happening that in a comparable way, people could be groves of trees, where they would be allowed to set up memories after spreading the ashes. All this discussion has also shown that many people have wanted to spread the ashes on a popular football field. It's, for example. known in Britain that people want to rest on their favorite course. I don't know if the football field here would be good at that. I understand that at all the most popular fights in the world there has been quite a stir in this, so people have made extra lines of memory so that the soccer players wouldn't have to play in the ashes, which was, in fact, popular distribution. But for the fun of it, I think it's possible to make such a choice with respect to the deceased first and foremost. There may be something else that this comes on, because I've been given indications that in earlier gardens, where the campers may no longer be doing their way, it might be better if there's a plaque, and that area lives as a memory of the deceased and is cared for during the procedure. But once it's been decades or years, no one has to do with it anymore.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u124	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir for his history and for putting up this interesting matter. The Senator has a naked sense of presenting matters that actually touch people a little and make them think, " Wait, do we really have to do things the way we've always done them? ' It is particularly respectable to adopt a case in the way the senator does. I like it, and I think the thinking of this bill is good, i.e. I'm going into more freedom than I am now. I agree with the senator. What I want and would like to ask is if the senator feels that there is enough control and all the management or registration, even if that is the way it can be said, only in the Regulation. As the senator suggests. 7. The law then says there's a wide range of laws within the jurisdiction without telling a lot about exactly how things should be done. I wondered, " Is the senator thinking about it any further? Or might there be more fish involved, since these points are to be torn up on the committee, and how can this be done? '
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u125	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists the question. Yeah, it was my advice that I left it a little open at 4 mg. where I actually just say, respect the dead one's wish regarding where and how ashes are spread or if the wish of the deceased is preserved, the ashes are not buried. For further details on the distribution of a deceased person's ashes, this law applies under the regulation of this law. In effect, it is removed from the current law that only ashes can be distributed over a desert or a sea. In my report, I clearly talk about my willingness to do this very freely. But I realize that people may want to do this a little slower, and I think that's exactly what they want to do. A top-of-the-art Board to to swaddle it a little. But I think the point of a occupation file is important. That was a tip I received last year. I think it's important, though, because I think it contains a lot of wealth and culture, that we can go to the park.is and look up people and where their womb is. In this case, I trust candidates to take over the vessel and do what the deceased requested, but I also return a registration to the uterine standards for where the ashes will be placed or if they are preserved. I know that some people don't like it at all, but I'd like to walk all the way into the bond of freedom and trust people perfectly in it. I don't think it's the same with the obituary, when people get lost, that's how it's written. Even if people want to be spread over Lake Bay and Vardás, they can be recorded if I take two very different examples. I don't really see the problem, and I don't see why we need to have a rigid administrative office around the permission system we have today, and I think we can simplify it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u126	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Yeah, I'm sure you can change this to mean that we're not so uptight about this stuff as in the current law. I completely agree with the senator on that. My difficulty is further to see if it should be written a little detail in the law text or perhaps it just comes in the opinion of the committee or something like that, I dare say about it. Another thing I'm thinking about is, the senator actually just walked in on it, where you can let the ashes pass. Should we have the exact same rule, e.g. to urban areas and rural areas? Would private property always be a vacation and a private country would always be free except by the permission of the owner? And then there is what the senator only mentioned, that it may in itself be a little more personal that someone wants to be dispersed in Vardá, as the senator mentioned earlier, but if the person only wants to have a permanent home somewhere in some churchyard? Because we now know that the protection law is actually beyond the grave and death, we need to examine it and see if something needs special attention. I'd like to know if the senator has wondered, " Is this really a very personal matter? ' I agree with the senator that there is plenty of material to clear the legislation, and I look forward to seeing the product that comes from the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u127	A respectable president. Thanks again for the counter-regulated. That's exactly what I planned to do. I didn't write it down to the bill. I realized that, of course, there may be conflicting views on this matter, and this is especially to the point of moving, and I expect the committee to also pass comments on to the local authorities. When I started working on this case, I began to wonder if there was any reason for this rigid legal frame today, something in a way that is loyal, and pollution prevention, or something like that. I didn't really know what I was looking for, but I couldn't find anything, so I'm not, not unless it's just our feelings. Hv. A senator came, e.g. I don't think that's important to me. I trust people to accept the ashes of a deceased relative and to treat it with respect and respect the wishes of the deceased. I don't see that the wish of the deceased, to give up this liberty, somehow to affect us, that somehow it will cause harm to others. That's why I don't understand why I'm having this very nijvigorating down. Of course, a country needs to be respected, but no amount of ash will be distributed to the neighbors, but it would be free to do so in one's own garden or vegetation or summer farm land. Actually, I haven't really wondered about the personal protection issues. Well, I guess that's when I get it. I guess that's where the whole manifest is, if that's what I understand. A senator is correct. I've looked at it so that there would be something nice about it. But you may wonder, without knowing it, that people may wish that they are not enrolled in a validary file. [[The president calls.]] I just have to admit, a respectable president, that I don't know it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u128	Mr. President. We'll discuss interesting bill as a matter of course. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir moves here a second time, and I enjoy the privilege of being an associate, too, another time. It is an interesting bill, perhaps quite saying that it is refreshing, but it is time and is called indeed time - changing attitudes and morals and religious standards. It's in its own environment, and on one side it's also a climate issue. We order here to clear the requirements for funerals. This can directly involve climate, since the equipment needs strict environmental requirements. We, Mr. President, live in deep - seated customs, with the end of life, of funerals, burial grounds, graveyards, and all legal matters under these circumstances, and of a measure of conservativeness, perhaps beyond what happens elsewhere. We have customs, customs, and customs that we would like to compromise. This has been the case for decades and centuries, although we indicate a change in evolution. The rate of fires in Iceland is increasing. Like what? A senator entered was 35% of all of the funerals of 2017, but the ratio had arrived about 40% two years ago, and this custom was growing in celebration. Why? questions are asked. There may not be a simple explanation, but what has been thrown into the air is an increased awareness of the environment and some aspects of geological use. We are approaching the Norwegians in this regard, but 44% of our cousins choose this way. Danir and Sweden are still more active in this regard, with an ratio of 81% and 82%. Britain has a 75% share, Czech Republic 80% and Switzerland 87%. The Japanese will not be top - sized, but statistics point to a ratio of 100%. The United States dwells at a 47% rate of fires, when we discuss traditions and customs in this subject. The bill does not suggest revolutionary suggestions, much more reorganized compromises to change the quality of life and rest of the earthly remnant and their possible wishes in these areas. I also feel that this may be an exasperation of the subject's open discussion of the individual's wishes, or when it is predictable that the person is saying goodbye. This may lead some way to a discussion about the wishes of the object, what he wants, how he visualizes it. Like what? A senator entered here, and that may not be necessary. The suggested distribution of ash will be given freer, unbounded, and will no longer be dependent on rigid conditions for digging vessels in the defined cemetery, as is now most likely required. According to one report, a growing proportion of individuals wish to distribute ashes outside the cemetery. The custom is in every country. A brief overview of neighboring countries is presented in this report. Norwegians are, as it is known, faithful and trustworthy in various respects, especially in religious life, but they have defined their way into the treatment of powder after burning and have gone quite far in some respects, if they bear in mind their strict tradition. Anyone who has reached the age of 15 is considered capable of applying for the spread of his earthly remains after the funeral is completed in nature. According to Norwegian burial law, a burning will take place no later than ten days after death. At the end of the funeral, funerals will be held at the latest six months after the funeral, but there will be exceptions in the event of special occurrence. For the distribution of powder across the country, there may be other time intervals. To distribute the ashes of a deceased person in Norway in an open area of terms, so I'll allow myself to shed some light on how this is in our next neighboring country, with our cousins there, is accepted as an alternative to burial. But not only can it be held and released but it cannot be distributed part of the ashes and then placed in a cemetery in a cemetery. In all cases, the selection of the individual is decided. Otherwise, a relative's wishes are in harmony with his or her heartfelt wishes. In Norway, under the regulations, it is not permitted to distribute the ashes to a number of places, or as earlier said, part of the distribution and digging into the ground. This is not in harmony with Norwegian rules. When it comes to the distribution of ashes in the sea, it is not conditional, it is permitted to do so closer to shore, within the harvest, and it is also permitted to distribute the ashes of the dead on the beach. Yet, much more leisure time is being done. The situation, for example, must be taken into account. cannot spread ash on a beach where many people are at large or in apartment or vacation homes. It also opens the way for ashes to be distributed in rivers, lakes, and lakes where circumstances allow and large space are abundant. There is a need for a wide range of resources. Special rules apply to areas that have limited access, protection, or peaceful territory, but they have to apply specifically for permission, of course all of which may be allowed. It has become more popular over time to sink jars into the sea instead of scattering the ashes into the sea, where it is conditioned that the vessels are made of perishable materials. The fact that the spread of the ashes of a deceased person should take place primarily in non - inhabited areas is always stressed by the Norwegian. This is the law which we live in, that it should be in the wilderness; but they let down a little more in this matter. They do so, although conditions allow for soil to be sufficient, allowing ashes to settle into the area and connect with the natural world, to be involved in the cycle. It is permitted to distribute ash into forest land but restricted to outdoor areas. There has been a slight appeal to get to distribute ashes in a very limited, targeted area, e.g. near the family vacation house. The rules emphasize the law that ash should not be spread in the inhabited area as well as the aim that ash can easily disappear in the soil and in the natural cycle, and no longer be marked by evidence of ashes. In Norway it is a state of state for each state responsible for permission, but there is, of course, a form that needs to be met. That is pointless, and his decision can be referred to a ministry. It is interesting that magazines in our uncle's funeral laws in Norway, and there are a number of surprises. All rural areas shall have an administration of burial grounds or land, or gravel, for this purpose equal to 3% of the population of the community. We are used to being able to take steps and land for an unlimited number of years. However, in Norway this is different because after 20 years since the last implantation, a grave can be reused if not specifically stated, but a dust can be placed in a coffin sooner. If a cemetery is decontaminated, it will be at peace for 40 years from its last birth. For 20 years, the right of a burial place is valid, and the price must be paid. If it goes on a lifetime, the survivors are not well off. So it is possible to extend a course, to a relative's wish, to be properly corrected and maintained, to be cultivated, and to be maintained in harmony with the church's organization. It seems that these Norwegians are much more involved in making better use of land, using their womb better. At the end of the period, the court should allow the removal of gravestone or other memory. If it is not done within six months, the office will gather it. It's not what we know. It's not what you think. It seems that the community, the overwhelming power, sees it as a time when the person is passed down there with the community's duties toward him unless relatives want to take other steps. It was about the burial law in Norway, perhaps a little sidestep to the bill we deal with here. Mr. President. This is not a radical change we make in this regard, but surely it is emotional. Like what? A traveller entered the United States for these matters to be handled with great respect and respect for all those involved. Just as we have been brought up and left out of respect for human beings, we look to more freedom and seek to fulfill the last wishes of individuals in a worthy manner. Therefore, I hope that the matter will eventually receive a good discussion, positive coverage, and successful payment, and that Icelanders will follow the same path as our neighboring nations with respect to all who have walked.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u129	Mr. President. I'm one of the new importers. paritaprevir Perhaps Bryndís's daughter's Haraldsdóttir is in this case, so perhaps it is not surprising that I have a positive attitude toward it. This is, as mentioned here in the discussion, a case that affects all of us because, yes, we all die eventually. Most of us have thought about what we want to do with the earthly remnant that we leave behind. This bill changes terms that were a little controversial when they entered the law 20 years ago. It was not a large group of senators who put their fingers into putting a warrant for the distribution of ashes, but there was one senator who said that he would not testify to Eyrgógja, describing how the ashes of the deceased went to the town brook and the cows carrying the calf drank the ashes and then became the bull of Glæsir. So there are some views on these issues. I've always thought of this as a question of how our bodies can become first part of the natural cycle that we are part of. Burning and distributing earthly remains into nature is the fastest way to do this. When I started to be a senator at the same time as before. The first messenger of this matter, I looked at the law we're here talking about changing, and I found this article, such as why. A senator came on into his transmission address, about the distribution of ashes a little strange. It is a form of defense that is not obvious why it should be. So I asked the Minister of Justice in 149 C.E. to see how evolution has been, how the proportion of fires has developed in recent years, and how often the distribution of ashes is applied. In fact, three key points were revealed, in response to the minister of justice. First, the proportion of funerals among those who died in 2013-2017 continued to increase, from 28% to 35%. In fact, it should be the goal to achieve this proportion as high as possible because of what has been introduced in the discussion, that the network of cemeterys as they have been organized over the past decades does not go on into the long run. We want to keep the memories of a cemetery near survivors, but we are now in the position that a garden in Grafarvogur is no longer enough for the capital area. It must go up to the Wolf's Valley, and it must be enough for some decades, and it must go further beyond the central center of the inhabited earth, allowing survivors to go to remember the dead. Another point that appeared in the minister's response, and was unexpected, was how much the proportion of applications for ash distribution was from foreign citizens. Iceland's attraction as a tourist country, in fact, goes beyond the grave and death. In fact, dozens of applications have been received from people who have never even been to the country but who will, after seeing pictures of Iceland, stay here forever. I think there's a little bit of love for us that people want to travel here on their last journey and be with us forever. One example I heard from this touched a rescue team in a country that received a phone call from a lawyer rather a wealthy man who had fallen away who had the last wish to be distributed over a certain mountaintop in Iceland. By means of a rescue team, the lawyer carried the ashes of the deceased to the top of the mountain and placed it there on a beautiful day. And if nothing else, this could be a fundraiser for rescue teams when they stop selling fireworks. The third thing to show in response to the highest point. A minister of justice, perhaps focusing on the importance of changing the law, was by permission of the president: A more advanced explanation of the terms desert and desert is not found in law or regulation on ash distribution, but is based on general language practices. It is hardly uncommon for us to see legislation in which it is simply used as a general code on terms of objects, and not always to be followed because the concept of the law, when given 20 years ago, was that the ash distribution was far away and it did not touch water or what it is because of the anxiety that people may have of their method of loyalty and pollution. However, as a result, the employee who accepts an application for ash distribution needs to make an economist decision to determine whether a particular place meets that requirement or is not, while there may be a very large number of places that can respond safely to ash. It's not toxic, it's organic, mostly calcium compounds. It may not be good to spread too much as ashes on a football field, as if it were true, but in other respects, it just runs the straightest way into the circuit. Then there is a problem with the law that they are not often followed. Surely, all of us know such stories as the story of the mountain goat that died and was burned, and the descendants took summer to travel through the country and spread some of the ashes over the tops that the person loved. It can be part of the grieving process, part of honoring the person's memory, but the law won't allow ashes to be scattered in more than one place. Why not? Why must an earthly remnant be in one place when they just disappear in the next rain into the environment? I thought of this, too, when the discussion earlier began to be about the birth status index and the importance of the location being known. Is that what you need? Why? Whose place? Placement of standard uterine sites is documented due to some occurrence. But a year after an ash has been scattered over a mountaintop there, there is nothing left of that earthly remnant. So I don't quite understand what we should be trying to file. However, it is very important to import, as we have discussed, some site of memory, some point that people can visit to remember the deceased. It may also be a cottage at the base of the mountain where the ashes are scattered on the top. It can be anything. A memory is something people have on their own terms. It's a feeling people are working with there. Then we may need to consider this matter in the context of a larger discussion. Here's why. paritaprevir The Brjánsson of the Churchyards, and we may need a good opportunity to discuss how permanent and unchangeable sites are. When it comes to cemeteries to rest their loved ones'bed, it is normal to maintain a measure of restraint. But because a Viking garden was named beyond the corner, it is good to remember that in that small field, smoke was buried for ten centuries. If there had been a remnant left of the first earthly remnant there, there would have been a pile of people over there. On the other hand, the 20th - century cemeterys in the capital area are all covered. They are big because they have taken graves, and in general they are not new again. Something is about to happen in the South Street courtyard, digging back into the oldest graves, perhaps especially the duster of their loved ones. But this is something that we need to consider much more to keep the earthly remnant of our loved ones in association with us who live so that we can visit them, at least, introduce their offspring to grandparents they've never seen, just by visiting the site of memories and discussing them. In addition, we, I think, need to offer a huge increase in the fact that people allow their remains to be distributed in the places they love and are part of their person and thus can become part of the memory that people regularly recall by going to the mountain where their grandmother loved and was scattered over and thinking to her there. Because of all of this, I hope that a global and educational committee is working best on this good bill and that over the next few years, we'll have more primes of this kind that will only change how people can get themselves off when they don't live.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u130	A respectable president. I'm here to celebrate the case we're discussing tonight. As you can see from the cosmates of the bill, it's somewhat parapolitic, which is very enjoyable. I don't think we talk about death enough. We fear and avoid the conversation we have with one another, and especially with children when it is very important that we have this conversation and inform children of the inevitable fact of life that death is. Like life, it is the right of children to be informed about death, and it can be important when children experience a loss that they know what is happening, knowing this event that is common and inevitable. Most of us lose a loved one in our life. Confidence and knowledge about death also bring meaning to life. Death sets life in, highlighting its importance and value. The knowledge of death reminds us of the futility of life and of the fact that time is limited to all of us. But even when our time is running out, he will continue to suffer, at the end of our lives. Our survivors live on and have the memory. Now in Covid, the public was encouraged to have a conversation about death with their loved ones, urged to have open conversation about what their wishes were when they could not be asked anymore, and they were not there to answer or declare their wishes after their earthly life. President. On April 8, four doctors and nurses on the Home Hospital's website published advice on the general importance of a meaningful conversation during difficult times, especially at times like this, in the Covid-19 epidemic, with permission of the president: ▪ It is important that people communicate with their immediate family before they become very weak about how their circumstances cannot live and how they would want to die. One of the best ways to relieve anxiety can be to discuss them openly. We often discuss authority over our own body and respect for the individual's wishes and personal decisions, our living. We will discuss and highlight the importance of freedom, the individual freedom, which cannot be at the expense of the freedom, the life, and the health of others. This discussion is equally appropriate when it comes to the body of the deceased. As mentioned earlier, I rejoice that the debate on death is being extended in politics at the General Assembly and deepened, as this case really does. Personal decisions and respect for the individual's decision making are, as previously said, common causes in the conference and public intervention in such personal matters are generally not good. A rigid law frame around personal decisions involving life and death should be avoided. In most cases, salutation is an important part of grieving. It may be an important factor in the development of grief that wishes have been addressed ahead and that such wishes can be fulfilled, that a loved one, the person who has fallen, can be said to have a greeting in the way that it reflects his soul and personality. This issue, which has to do with spreading ashes where the deceased has even requested to be done or where the family or caregivers feel that it is appropriate for the person to rest, can be very important to people and is important in the processing of grief. Hv. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, 1st of this matter, referred to a new birth project involving death and burial and memorials and such. That's an exciting scene. It is a scene that we avoid to the extreme the searching, watching, and even discussing in the context of innovation. Hv. paritaprevir In his talk, Bryndís Haraldsdóttir mentioned several tasks, including the tree of life's trees, etc. That's an exciting assignment. Death does not have to be depressing. It is the inevitable fact of life. In the following moments, we will discuss an interesting guide to dating, which I look forward to hearing discussions about and even participating in. It's all connected. We often discuss the beginning and the central meaning of life, and later we will discuss the latter years of life. Now we're talking about death. It is important, positive, and good for us to consult such a platform in open conversation as a community guided by wishes and respect, by the wishes of the living, and by the wishes of the dead. This case goes to work. The Education and Culture Committee, and I look forward to seeing if this case is getting started within the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u131	A respectable president. I want to end up thanking you. Parliamentaries who have participated in the discussion on this subject. I think it just shows that it's, like we've been through here, cross political. It's not a hipolitic subject, but it's something that matters to all of us. That's why I'd like to encourage you. The General and Education Committee to address the case immediately at their meeting, sending out a review so that the festivals will be useful. I reiterate that even if there's no harm in this matter, it's something that doesn't cost anything. If something were, government funds would be saved to increase that freedom. So I'd like to encourage you. A top-of-the-art Board of Education continued on this job. Thank you. Parliamentaries who participated in the discussion. Earlier, something new was being said. So much for talking. A senator also said that Iceland had attraction to the grave and death. That is certainly so, and we know that although it is not in harmony with rules, people have come here, definitely in good faith, with the ashes of dead relatives, and have distributed it. In fact, when we discussed this as a fundraiser for rescue forces, I was thinking about the turning point of Lovestar, by Snær Magnason, because speaking of innovation, there is, of course, a number of things to be done in these subjects. But for the fun of it, I just wanted to say thank you. Congress members for having a part in this discussion. I reiterate that I think we should be able to do very well here and with all due respect to the deceased. I don't know. Senators and wοuldn't. A top-of-the-art Board of Education says it's worth something to be able to respect the last wish of the deceased. And I would like to suggest that we try to do the first thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u132	Mr. President. I hereby recommend an action plan against the age of aging. This proposal is now presented in a unique way, although its guidelines from what is right. paritaprevir The Guðjón of Brjánsson Gamunson and Friðriksson are also in the process here within the council. They followed last year. Then these suggestions were offered together. It's so fun that our importers on these suggestions are nominated. paritaprevir The Guvigner of Brjánsson Brunsson and Ásmundur Friðriksson as well as the whale. paritaprevir Anna Kolbrún of the Year's Kristjánsdóttir, Halla Sigladínsdóttir, Halldóra Mogensen, Hanna Katrín's Friðriksson, and Guðmundur of Ingi, the son of Kristinsson. The proposal goes out, assigning the Minister of Social Affairs to appoint a team of action programmes against aging prejudices. The plan would be prepared in close cooperation with stakeholders and that the task force will submit proposals to a minister no later than the fall of 2021. Then a minister would present the results of the Class of Staff at the fall council of 2021. As I mentioned earlier, this is not the first time that this proposal has been made. It was suggested last year to meditate on the subject and after a few discussions. In both times it has been submitted, it has become a little debate in the community which is certainly part of the plan, let's say, Mr. President, i.e. to get the discussion about what I have wanted to say is community damage, prejudice against older people, and talk about them in a prejudiced way that actually damages their interests. These prejudices are seen in many lands. It is repeated that older people gain so much, they take too much room on hospitals, they weigh rural social services, they don't understand the current age, they don't observe etc. However, much less is involved in the discussion that older ones have vast social skills, and they have very valuable knowledge, not just about what they have done in their past but about the knowledge of society, - and are valuable to it - about history and how things have worked out. So it is important to try to put older people on an equal level in our discussion, that we stop calling everything older people with some sort of problem, and perhaps start talking about a project. In fact, prejudices against older people can cause many feelings of distress. They can cause anxiety, they can become discouraged, and they can even cause people to refrain from seeking their rights, not demanding their rights, whether in the case of appropriate service or in other cases. For example, it is often said that older people are so expensive, that they use expensive services, and that they are the most expensive in the health system. But if we reflect on this discussion and think: " When would it be normal for us as a community to make the most use of health care? Would it not be a terrible testimony to society that people are making the most of their health care and that they are facing most of the problems and illnesses of younger years? Not only is it normal and natural for people who have lived a long life, including a life span. because and because of the burden of disease, of simply using the ministry? Then she should be ready. In fact, it is known that older people are not causing medical costs when they are actually seeking their rights. It is also true to bear in mind that a certain elderly person who may be sick or wrinkled is wrong. It's just wrong. The vast majority of older ones enjoy good health and well - being. The idea that all older people are weak and poor is actually harmful. It is often stated that while older people are in the hospital, as is sometimes said, they strengthen their space, and we all know that there is a great movement on older people who are in hospitals. The fact is that the nature of the situation, as mentioned above, can always be assumed that a larger proportion of those who go to the hospital are elderly. But that it's always the same elderly people that, as I've read somewhere, almost contains to ◯ --put them in foals, Mr. President - inside the hospital is just nonsense. It's not like that. Despite all of this and the facts I've traced here, of course, it is important to continue developing the health and social services at all levels, including established services for older people who are often spoken of. This is not to say that we should stop. It is also so, Mr. President, that people still today are expected to stop working in a general employment market at 70 years of age and, indeed, also in public. It's totally independent of whether people want it themselves or whether they're able to work on it. By forcing the end of this period of time, the experience and knowledge of these individuals often go hand in hand with the man - made industry. In many respects, it would be quite normal to make it possible for people to complete their jobs, depending more on whether they can do the job or are willing to do it. The method of restricting the work of older people in the way that is being done is really a matter of age, and it often causes people much heartache. It is also well - known that there are psychiatric problems, such as anxiety and even depression, that would be less pronounced and less pronounced if we made it possible for people to stop active employment on their terms. The purpose of the proposal is to assign a minister to make a comprehensive assessment of aging prejudices and to look for ways to reduce or destroy them. To that end, it is suggested that the following be done: First, the legal environment will be reviewed and the laws of the discrimination age groups will be determined as to the rights and responsibilities above those that might be considered normal due to development and ability. Second, whether there is a basis for removing age related rules on law, such as professional rights, right to employment, right to pension, and right to a certain service. Third, we should consider whether a further legal qualifications should be considered, i.e. Education, experience, or ability, or any more objective criteria than age. It is important that a plan of action be implemented in close collaboration with stakeholders, such as the older people's stakeholders, the labour market members, and others who are expected to overlook the matter because of expertise or experience. These include scholars who have written on the subject, such as gerontologists, health professionals with special training in the fields of aging, social advisers, and others. The order of the work team should be considered separately for the above factors. The nature of the situation suggests that there will be some expense for the staff, but it will be largely within the Ministry at first. The results of the group could, in turn, change government cost models. You might think it would be one of the tasks of such employees. A respectable president. It is like this, especially at such strange times as we do today when the shoe squeezes in, that prejudice has very easily surfaced. Unfortunately, in this pandemic, we have heard that people have even missed out on occasion that everything is going on their side because they're full of old people who shouldn't be there. This conversation becomes louder than it used to be, and it hurts for those people, and it hurts for these people. That is why it is important that we try to stop speaking. Some of the prejudices against older people may be the result of a sort of bullying talk about this group, of course not quite the same but some of the same factors involved. The wording, in turn, means that it demeans and demeans people. When it comes to such feelings, people feel less comfortable and less able to feed their weapons, and they fail to enjoy themselves properly in ways that otherwise could be theirs. A respectable president. I'm guessing this proposal will go to what? The welfare committee following this discussion and is looking forward to working on this matter along with the suggestions I mentioned at the outset. paritaprevir The Goddess of S. Brjánsson and Ásmundur Friðriksson. I hope these three suggestions can be worked together in one package and put them back into the Senate hall before the assembly ends in the spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u133	A respectable president. I'm here to celebrate the case we're discussing right now. This is a long time. I have often been thinking about our attitude as a community with older ones. Age prejudices can be so deeply rooted in culture that we do not see them, hear them not, take no note of them. What may be worse is that people often participate in things that are marked by old age that are deeply rooted in our culture. A joke is often able to reveal prejudice in communities. All of us, in effect, have a responsibility to keep our eyes open. You can laugh and make fun of things in your life and some of us all. But when it begins to convert to pure violence as a perimeter, our duty as a community is to rise up and look at it with blind eyes. I believe this case does, is a step towards it. So I take one example of what I'm talking about here is a joke culture around my birthday, often because several decades are cut off when someone's birthday is due. It is assumed that those who have birthdays will find it better. Without exception, there is some setting for clearance that being younger is better than being more mature and alive. This can be subtle. It may often be funny if it doesn't hurt, but this is something we need to keep our eyes open in the community. The nature of the matter is often cultured so that we do not see it ourselves. In older people, there are often manna that has been pushed aside. Older people do not have the opportunity in the community they should have and should be able to have. There is much to offer, health, and interest, but somehow the potential for life - style that society claims to be high has been reduced. It has to be fixed. We need to be happy to develop ourselves and rejoice that others will grow up, enjoy the experience, the knowledge that the elderly live in, even have access to it, ask, talk to older ones who have had experiences in life, and even know many things that we do not know as younger as we are. It can often be a precious knowledge, a precious conversation, and a rewarding one. Still, it remains that the older and younger distinctions are also dangerous. We're supposed to get laid. We're supposed to take everybody with us, because bordering groups is always violent. So I welcome this case. We need to talk about this as a community and allow the case to be well involved in committee work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u134	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a judicial proposal to smell the state's responsibility for the pay-off loan for employment development. It's like the highest. The proposal is suggested by the president. 31 and No. 31st I'm the first importer, and I'm Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristoffsdóttir, Silja Dögg Djög Gunnarsdóttir, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson and Þórunn Egilsdóttir. So it is a matter that the entire Assembly of the House of Congress is behind, and it is part of the category's focus on employment and one of the main priorities of the Party. The suggestion itself reads: ▪ The General concludes to hide travel, industrial, and innovation ministers from premeditating temporary measures that promote investment in job development and facilitate the availability of job development projects to loans during the economic contracts caused by the colony's pandemic virus. The operation consists of the state-of-the-art responsibilities of loans that loan agencies give to employers and currency makers of job development projects. The implementation of the project, including proposals for needed adjustment, lies only on February 1, 2021. Based on the introduction of the procedure prior to March 1, 2021 In other words, the proposal is to be carried out. The proposal's report is detailed and available on several pages. It reviews the objective of the procedure, the need and possible implementation. There is considerable work to be done on this matter, and I would like to thank everyone who came along. I will not review the report from words to words, but I will emphasize the emphasis. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that a job-and-exploiting project has access to loans, thus supporting corporate resistance. In order to establish a system where the Kingdom guarantees partial loans to such projects. The responsibility is to minimise the uncertainty and risks of the money spent in lucrative investments during times of recovery, as we now experience. The growing unemployment rate, the recession of land production, the worsening economic growth rate, and the recession of commercial investors call for government reactions. Transporters have examined various methods of public support in employment development, such as funding, tax appeals, and State responsibilities, but it was decided to provide State responsibilities on loans that loan agencies provide legislation for small and medium-sized employment and currency projects. The premise that we choose this way in the suggestion is that it does not lead to spending from the state's funds as soon as the operation succeeds if, rather, it succeeds in implementing Kingdom funds beyond expenses for nonprofit projects, even substantial revenues above the anticipated expenses. Thus, only if there are more responsibilities than plans are to be expected. However, in order for the operation to achieve its aims, its Kingdom responsibilities need to be taken to a minimum of 10◯15 billion, but they would need to be better used in the process. A report reviews the social situation. I don't see why it's all there. We've been through that in terms of financial work, etc. I want to draw attention to the fact that the bill may be vague that when it comes to unemployment counts, it's talking about the average year. One of the factors is that the investments of a private professional driver had been greatly summed up during the first half of 2020. Thus, the proportion of industry investments of land production has fallen rapidly recently and is now reduced to the average over the past 25 years, and it appears that this reduction will continue to occur. Professional surveys have shown that investments take place almost next year. Thus, in such situations it is particularly important to encourage companies to develop and exploit money investments in the way they are moving during the pandemic and to face changes that inevitably follow. Therefore, we need to respond, where society needs active employment development, increase in jobs, and increase in currency income. Conditions require that governments take measures that promote investments in order to strengthen their job life quickly and in length. There have been operations and significant improvements in support of innovation, which is very important. There have been a number of interviews for Covid and to keep companies going. I view this operation as being between innovation and keeping companies alive, and it needs to move forward as well. If we only find out how this has been in the past decade, economic growth has been brought up by new jobs and commercial development on a wide scale in industrial, marine soil, secondary technology, fish farms, filmmaking, and, most important, in tourism. But about that time. A decade was the majority of those who have developed this trend in some other profession. It tells us that throughout the country there are people who have taken up this opportunity in the last decade and who are sure ready to continue. The proposal is to pay for these people and companies to have access to funding for society's income and to meet the financial costs of individuals and society all over the pandemic. The proposal is to respond to the signal that economic losses are increasing because companies do not have access to the financial resources for a good and profitable project and by surgery like this, governments could send a clear message that the future in Iceland is bright and that it is safe to take the step. It should be possible for companies of all sizes to be used and carried out, although most of the projects would be SMEs. These are projects that lenders considered promising investments in a traditional year's trip but now pay for the uncertainty of society. Icelandic society cannot afford to wait for the epidemic. It requires development and access to instruments to continue. It is important that the procedure is not intended to disrupt competition but to support development and structure in as many of the articles that can create valuables and currency. This can be considered for all articles - industry, video games, agriculture, tourism, filmmaking, fishing roads, etc. But only to the extent of the operation. It is vital that the encouragement reaches as many people as possible, but the loans can be large enough to have real influence. Therefore, the maximum value of each loan and the number of loans to the same person must be determined. In view of this, it may be reasonable to think that a large amount of responsibility could reach 200 billion. K. and any legislator could only borrow money with national responsibilities on one project, but it must contribute to their distribution of loans as the most diverse community projects. Government responsibilities are not usually given at full credit, but according to OECD criteria it may be advisable to give responsibility for up to 70% of the loan level. And as previously said: In order for the operation to have a significant effect, the project would have to be reduced to a minimum of 10 to 15 billion. It is thus thought that eight years could be the proper time for responsibility. On a case like this, it's not access to all the tools and tools you would like to have to assess the impact on government funds. The effects, however, depend on various factors, such as the demand for loans and the progress of job development projects that would be rendered on loans. However, the impact on the wealth of the Kingdom would be expected to be positive, both in the form of boiling flows and in the final supply. In fact, there is a overwhelming possibility that the cumulative impact of the operation on the release of the government would be positive in the attic. The transfer needs to consider government grants and government sources and public resources for a pandemic and take care of government support and cooperation in other official support measures in cases where they have already been involved in borrowing. But there is clear evidence to that, and in view of the state of the world's economic situation, the European Commission has authorized the Union's countries to provide national support in a far greater way than usual year travel. Transporters have found similar applications, e.g. In Belgium. In terms of the project, it is proposed that the procedure be directed to legislators who are applying for loans for job development projects and financial institutions that provide loans for job development. In this process, it is very important that the development of a job project is clearly defined, that it is a project for the development of goods, services, or manufacturing procedures, and then it would have to be shaped conditions for the development of job development projects so that the loans that would be given to the project could be subject to state responsibility; what requirements would be met. Similarly, it is necessary to specify a legal way to demonstrate that a project meets the requirements, finds simple ways to do this, and whether or how a professional assessment of the projects would be conducted prior to a judicial hearing and what information the government would need while the State's responsibilities are valid and how that information would be provided. It has been wondered if Ranni would be the right person to do so. Transporters believe that it is reasonable to base the requirements for professional evaluation on five factors that provide the basis for the success of the proposal's objective. The first requirement would be natural for the project to produce a product or service that was in currency and that the project was a professional in Iceland during the entire loan period, that the project would produce new sensitivity, either regional or national, but the requirement for new sensitivity would be entirely different from those of innovation, what falls under innovation. She'd be, for example. a specific requirement for new sensitivity in a particular article or regional. It would have to be explained how a project could survive a different economic situation, a traditional economic climate change, and a business plan should be highly defined on the above. Then it is important that, as most people can lend loans to those who are doing loans for jobs, recognized business banks, it is important that the pension fund be brought into this, possibly other funds, which have the goal of strengthening the development of their employment or the innovation that has become more advanced. Then a clear setting of management and follow-up would have to be shaped. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. Despite the situation in the community, it is important that the development of employment does not stop, and here I have clearly explained the proposal and suggest that the case be referred to. The job committee following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u135	President. There is an excellent measure behind this matter of Congress. But I have a suggestion to simplify; to erase the state responsibility, to do this just through all the innovations that we have. Then we'll achieve our objective without having these complications where we have to fit, and that's what we have to do, the State Accounting Act, and that. We just put a little bit more on the job development and innovation route, put more into Technological Development Funds, and in fracture-risked programmes, and everything we put money into, these solutions that we already have to achieve exactly these goals. That's great, except off with state responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u136	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. That actually tells me what to do. A senator understands the idea very well. However, these are businesses who are actually doing business that are not really seeking sponsorship. They're looking for loans. The situation in society today makes loan institutions very reluctant to lend on a job success. The proposal is that the State will share the responsibility with the financial institutions and, of course, return the company in due time. Still, they are work of the same kind as the other. A senator talks about it. These are often tasks that can even be strengthened by some of these funds, but these are tasks that are very effective in caring for the cost of investment. It's about getting the money, which also exists in the country, out to the companies who want to use it to create more valuable things so that we have more to play, so that the state can make more money in the box to pay off the cost of Covid and our professional life can grow and thrive as we want to see it always do. In this way, we have more and more work to do than have access to the amount of money now available to us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u137	President. I'll figure it out. But when I was listening to the suggestion's boundaries and aims, it will result in a remuneration product, which is a professional company in Iceland, including new sensitivity, that Dr. Rannis has a professional assessment of it - it's just a new project. The policy has been to minimize Kingdom responsibilities. We are naturally faced with specific situations that have some type of rearranged it. But when I look more closely at this, all the demands of innovation are screaming, which are set up in the report. Great. I agree with that, and I think that after all, the product is the product of taking it through the innovation process, regardless of what it eventually happened, although it is not a state responsibility, that it always leaves behind the valuables that innovations, whether it succeeds or not, generally leaves behind. So I'm really no reason to involve my Kingdom responsibilities in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u138	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Hv. A senator saw that we transporters were trying to make these adjustments clear and in many respects similar conditions to those of innovation. But if we look at this as a line of projects that develop the job, here are certain jobs that continue in the same process as they have been. At this end, there is something new being done. It is based on new technologies and new research and all that. However, between those things that have sometimes been called evolution, job development, there is a difference. New birth projects often go to the phase after the first phase of innovation, if we can say so. It is often difficult to access capitals, such as. ... inthecontrovert. Travelers sometimes complain if this is, for example, the case. Some certain form of recreation has been established in a Western land, but it is very important that both in the East and in the West. And, of course, in Northern and South. That is why the proposal is much lower than those of innovation. In this respect, the export of this new sensitivity requirement is far greater than that of the innovation projects. And, of course, it is also assumed that the amount of money derived from the government's funds is greatly reduced by the responsibilities.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u139	Mr. President. I recommend here for the election-shaped bill. The bill itself is to have agreed with the heads of the political parties, but also with the exception of the presentation and coverage of both the World Council Committee and the field coverage of my meetings with members of Congress. It is so that the Council has held this matter in length and distance from the years 2013 and 2014, when the Council actually took the lead in this project and took over it and has taken care of it ever since. The bill is based on the proposal of a re-election team that I ordered on October 24, 2018, and it was completed on September 10 of this year. The bill is presented as arranged by the Outfit. His work, however, is partly supported by the work of the second committee then president of the General Assembly, Einar K. Guðfinnsson, in 2014 but by the violation of Congress or by early elections in 2016, that work was completed early, in fact, by contributions of the bill to legalize the elections for the General Assembly, without being discussed here at the council. That bill, of course, was not as effective as an overall re-election of all votes as it is here and was merely a matter of elections to the General Assembly. In fact, the terms of election laws in preparation and implementation of national elections have not changed for decades. Because of frequent elections in recent years and other changes that have resulted in election implementation, there has been a growing need for change. Thus, the World Parliament's Commission itself pointed out in its opinion following the 2013 General election, 2016, and 2017 that it is necessary to complete a general review of the law of elections for the General Assembly. Since the election in 2009, the President of the General Assembly, the Minister of Congress, and the Council of Congress, have concluded the need for a general review of elections to the Council and believe that the sentence of a new total election should be determined. Finally, the comments and indications from the Federal and Human Rights Office of the European Security and Cooperation Agency, the OSE, have been received during the campaigns here on the country and at General elections in 2009, 2013, and 2017. All of these have provided indications and comment and improved, either since 2009 or since 2013. The comments of the SE Democracy and Human Rights Agency are basically directed that the establishment of an independent campaign in the process of elections, that the European Commission's work must be coordinated, that there should be more instruction and instruction for voters, and that an extra-election agreement should not begin until the ceremony has passed. To change first to form, Mr. President, I would like to begin by saying that this bill for election law is moving toward a much simpler, collective or modern law on the implementation of an election. A U.S. election Act, a U.S. U.S. election Act, a U.S. government election law, and a law on the execution of national regulations will be passed, if the bill is approved, and one law will apply to four general elections in the past. This includes a marked decrease in law code and, in fact, a few terms of election law would go to other law columns. The building of this is, therefore, that the U.S. government election law, the U.S. President's legislation and the execution of national regulations refer to the election to the General Assembly on a number of matters. This is to be made up of the votes itself, her preparation, and her votes outside our polls, and at a meeting. Is it usually stated that such matters fall to a second degree according to the U.S. election law to the Generals and as appropriate? So far, there are relatively old - age references to law, many of which are in this case. With one election law, all such references are taken off and prevent possible mistakes from wrong or misleading references from law to law. There is now no mention of how simple it is for those who are putting themselves in and studying election legislation that doesn't have to bother running between the laws backwards. The bill to the campaign law as specified here is based on two main factors: the new campaign administration and, on the other hand, changes aimed at simplifying the rules of election implementation and securing the rights of voters. As you can read in the general comments of the bill, the head of the seminarial election is in many respects vague and fragile, including the authority to give general instructions and instructions to individual agents. In addition, the current strategy of elections is limited in preparing and implementing elections as a temporary project in bringing about every election. Other projects, such as instruction, guidance, training, development of procedures, research, and policy development, have, on the other hand, been limited to anyone who keeps his arms around the seminary on a regular basis. The SE Democratic and Human Rights Agency is now doing three times in its campaign reports on General elections 2009, 2013, and 2017 followed by a lack of coordination in the implementation of elections and the need to ensure harmonisation at all levels of optimal government. Has the Agency proposed the priorities of a review of the establishment of an independent administration authority that would exercise authority over the entire election process. So the bill suggests that the campaign administration will be simplified and united, as well as one member, a national government, given a clear management and conformance role. The government of the election will be transferred from the Ministry of Justice to an independent administrative committee who, in addition, are responsible for the implementation of their campaigns for ongoing action between elections. Thus, the aim is to combine a multi-success project and harmonize with it, to improve efficiency, and to promote pro-election activities. Governments are expected to take over the office of Justice, the Ministry of Presidency, the Supreme Court, the Commission's votes, and, in part, the head of the local council of elections, but not everyone. These tasks can be divided firstly into legal projects that include the implementation of elections, such as advertising elections, preparing ideal data, sending out instructions, etc. Second, caring for such projects as leadership in the development of campaigns and procedures. The election's administrative operation would be on one hand, to produce a new legislation that will be taken into account in the implementation of elections - it is closer to name the personal protection law, for it is, of course, that the implementation of an election should take into account this sort of legal environment - and increased education and election guidelines according to the SE recommendations. There will be an opportunity to conduct campaign research with a sense of urgency that is now being carried out. The independence of the national government as a five - man administration is emphasized by its managing the manager and setting its own post. It is assumed in the bill, although it may be discussed there, that the national ethic government will be appointed by the Council of the Council, one members appointed by the European Union and one member of the Committee of the Colleges. Thus, the composition of the national government reflects its role in the elections, the district elections, the presidency, and the execution of national regulations. We've developed proposals for the increased and sustained role of the national government, including the U.S. look to role models in Norway, Sweden, and Britain that operate independent election agencies, as traced to the bill's report. Along with these changes, local administrations are suggested to be elected election governments and to be guided and assisted by national government. It is suggested that the government of the country accepts the proposals for the General election and that there is a vote for the responsibility of local administrations. The government also sums up a number of votes in each district and calculates numbers of lists and candidates. National government and local administrations thus take over the work of the Supreme Commission of the Advisor States, and it is suggested that they be eliminated. It should be emphasized that the terms will remain fundamental in the election elections, and with these changes, it is certainly not a challenge, in any way, to which the Constitution itself protects much of that arrangement. Finally, it is suggested that an independent independent, independent election committee be established and met accordingly. ASE in the Agency report on the 2009 total election. According to the bill, it will be possible to shoot at the Committee's designated decision of the European Commission, the head-of-the-continental administration and the National Congress of Iceland for the preparation and implementation of elections. The Commission shall also decide the value of the country elections and elections, and the approval of future candidates in the district elections. Finally, the decision - making committee of elections shall accept charges of the illegality of the presidency, of the district elections, of national votes, and of the votes held on the basis of the government of the United States. The values of the General elections, including the election of the General Assembly, come according to the order of 46 st. The constitution. It should be noted that by establishing a special ruling committee, it is not a matter of taking a ruling authority from the government or the government of the country. Therefore, the establishment of a special decision committee includes additional and significant improvements. On the other hand, the bill can be called a simple rule book, a simple rule book, and a more efficient program. I would like to review six specific suggestions from the bill on this objective. That is where I first mention a new arrangement for those who need help to vote. One of the most important proposals on the bill is that anyone in need will be authorized to get help with the election, whether because of disability, illness, old age, or for other reasons. According to the U.S. Congress's legislation, the voter can only get help from an executive or his own assistant to vote for an invisibility vote or if his hand is unusable. If a voter comes with his own assistant at a voter's place, it comes with quite a fuss. This arrangement has been criticized by stakeholders who are discriminated against according to their disability. As the United Nations Convention on the Rights of disabled people was validated here on the land of 2016, and according to the international commitment, it is suggested that all voters be entitled to votes and so that all can enjoy the fundamental human rights to participate in elections. A principle of election law, then, is that a person with the right to vote will have the right to help in harmony with his needs. A dresser can choose between having the help of a voter or bringing his own assistant at a voter's place. The requirement is that a voter can explain himself to those who provide assistance from the way he chooses to vote, and an assistant is forbidden to assist more than three voters. Punishment must be forced to vote. This proposal of the work force was made in cooperation with the National Organization Developmental Fundament and Iceland's Generous Alliance. I emphasize that this is the scales of the principle of secret elections and the democratic right to vote. This is a clear case and is in my mind so that the latter outweighs the need for assistance in this respect and is more important than the general rule of the highest election. It may be noted that the administrative rights officer who has studied the bill's suggestions on the matter does not feel that she is in danger of voters. Then there's votes outside of election meeting, which includes... As far back as 2009, ESE's comments were still being met regarding political equality. It is suggested that the implementation of a vote outside of a meeting does not begin, i.e. the end-of-the-view campaign, until all bids have been made after the ceremony. Therefore, an out-of-count meeting is closer to the election day and begins 29 days before the election day, instead of possibly 56 days today, as experience shows that the main vote is two, three weeks before the vote date. In view of the fact that voters know who will be offered when a vote outside a meeting begins, if this conclusion is suggested, that the voters only be able to vote once in each election, either outside an election meeting or in a ballroom meeting. It is also suggested that mail elections be adopted to facilitate the access of votes outside of ideal meetings for Icelanders who live abroad. Mail election is a narrow warrant for foreign voters, and it is not possible to vote outside an election meeting or on a vote date. The suggestion is to follow a negative pattern, which involves a way for voters who are unable to enter the embassy or to vote for a judge who would probably not vote to a great degree otherwise. Post-election is also suggested to address criticism as a result of a defect in sub-election regulations from abroad where managers have not had enough knowledge to guide how to vote. A clear delay is provided to vote with mail, since more than enough time for the voter to submit a vote, since mail transport can be nonstop. Along with these changes, the bill aims to establish a valid law on the implementation of a vote outside of an ideal meeting clearer and more formal, in order to form a date for the completion of the vote. At the same time, it is recently stated that the county council manager's request should be carried out by the management board in order to administer a vote outside of a pollary meeting, while the current law allows only permission to exist for this purpose. In recent years the number of reformers has fallen very much, so some of them are more economical than the fact that internally obtained ultimatum is conducted by rurals. At last it is assumed that non-concerned votes may be held at a mobile site, e.g. ... ona bus. The bill suggests changes so that the election ceremony will be simpler and safer if the voter stamps a bill before the voter puts it in a vote box. Is this a Finnish and Norwegian role model? In view of the technology available to the public, for example, by taking pictures of a ballot in a ballot and then having a printer print and spread or to inform how the voter has paid a vote, it can be said that it may be relatively easy to influence or destroy an election. In view of this, naturally the question arises: Can the implementation be simplified, as well as additional security, as well as facilitate selection jobs, by assuming that the voter will verify with his stamp that the voter has paid a vote before entering a vote box? This arrangement does not require any special accounting or review of a number of used and unused terms and does not require any rules for special preservation and distribution of terms. Concomitantly, a vote will be evaluated invalid if a qualifying card is not the one that the national government or the head-elector has been used and if a vote has not been stamped by a voter or a manager. The bill suggests that central production will be provided for the Iceland National Book instead of the local community at this time. Protocols are expected to be based on an annual registry 33 days before the vote date and the setting of the ballot until the vote date. Iceland's national markets were adopted and sent an electronic registration to local communities. It is then assumed that political organizations offering elections and presidents in the Presidency will have the right to submit a Constitution. An electronic constitution that becomes a principle of election is suggested. However, the local government will be permitted to request a national government to use a printed scheme, e.g. if electronic connections cannot be guaranteed to the central database at the local site. The bill suggests that the release of elections to the general councilmen, the president of Iceland and the councilman will be undertaken. Instead, they receive a vote for the outcome of the election. There is a significant issue with the publication of election letters and especially with the release of market letters to non-employers, who will have no purpose other than to describe the outcome of elections. It is important to declare the correct outcome election publicly after each election - and we have recently been reminded of the importance - based on it in the bill. In view of this, it is not necessary to do this with a version of a labour letter. By 33rd. The Constitution is an election term in the General election, and thereby a district and national legal fee in Iceland, unless there are exceptions in that order, according to 2 mg. 1st par. Act of the election for the Generals. Then, for eight years from moving from Iceland, the voting rights can be maintained for four more years at the same time by applying for Iceland's National Records. On the other hand, the election rights in rural elections are tied to a lawhouse with very narrow exceptions. The service group who prepared the bill discussed how long would it be possible for Icelanders to live abroad to keep in touch with the country that justice affects Icelandic society and/or interest in it, i.e. ... withtheelection. Because their right to vote is an exception to the legal conditions of the Constitution, it is based on the bill that the Icelanders live abroad maintain their legal rights of elections at General elections, elections and national elections for 16 years from the transfer of a home. Thus, the default source is a substantial length of eight years, and a clear, predictable rule is recommended. This includes a simple administration of applications to the Iceland National Publications Index, such as 2.g. a law of elections for the U.S. Generalis is dead. provisional provisions suggest that the foreigners living abroad who now have the right to vote for 16 years from the establishment of a new law, so that Icelanders who have been living in a foreign home or who have recently replaced their election for another four years, would receive additional 16 years of rights. It is assumed, and it actually happens automatically, that the voter will be re-elected in reselecting a home to the country. An explanation for Article 3 can be given. The bill for further information on this and the arrangements in our neighboring countries. It also contains information on the number of people who have made good use of that right. A respectable president. Other than that, I would like to mention just a few other essential points of the bill. It is assumed that the count will be set in rural areas but with fewer than 100 voters on the terms of the terms the national government will combine the count to another community society. Because of comments presented in the consultation process of the bill, it had been changed from adding to counting sites. So now it is suggested that a vote be asked for the responsibility of the head of the local government, and it will determine where the votes are most appropriate. It is clear that the importance of the economy is growing by these changes, but they already have an important role. Of course, in this regard, rural society is shrinking and is growing, and as a result, they should generally be better equipped to support good government and to ensure good work conditions. It is suggested that elections be rushed to facilitate the implementation of elections so that local elections will continue on Saturday morning in May instead of Saturday morning in May and that the presidency will be held first Saturday in June, instead of Saturday morning in June. In general, it will take 24 hours to maintain compliance. As regards the oers to the General election, there is a degree of space or a change in the number of candidates on the list. Is that based on the fact that the list of oers should be at least as many names and votes per time, but never more than twice that number, instead of the current current rule, which is actually very strict, which says that the list of offers should be twice as many as the candidates as the members of the Senate and no more. It's a strict rule, for example. in cases such as the candidate died just before the election. In fact, it will be arranged by the law to move forward the candidates on the list automatically. The regulations on political organizations are more clear in the specific chapter of the bill so that a perspective on their work can be made more readily. It is decided in a clear way that the voters should label X for a package leaflet square and a requirement for the assessment of votes has been updated in accordance with the decision of the Commission of the last few years. It is suggested that the election laws be adopted into the Norwegian model and, according to SE special sources for national and foreign election officials to monitor the implementation of elections. Finally, it is suggested that the campaign be completed by government law, No. 37/1993 and Information Act, No. 114/2012, as well as the U.S. Council agent, oversees their administration. The work of the bill, a respectable president, put great emphasis on good information and on winning the whole process open. At the beginning and again at the end of the work group, as well as consultations with stakeholders and members of Congress, the program was launched. A special adviser group of members of the Parliament worked alongside the committee. In addition, many guests were received and discussed. Then a special web site was opened on the General Assembly's website for a review of campaign songs which provided information on the work force of the group and is also provided with data on the work of the previous staff. This was to ensure a wide variety of opportunities for this big matter and that comments could be made at the beginning of the work, not when it was well along. At the beginning of this year, key features of the work group were presented to the Council Committee of the Council and to all non - members of Congress. In March 2020, a second tour process was held that the prime bill for the full election, accompanied by a report sent to stakeholders and to the General Assembly for presentation. The best comment was to count votes at the votes, that each voter could only choose once, and to stamp out the goods as part of the campaign crew. Then, with the best possible efforts, the staff made comments on the case and explained their suggestions where appropriate. As previously said, it is now recommended that the count be determined to be taken off the count at the market and that the decision to count should be made to the responsibility of the local government. Comments in the bill, which are quite large in interest of growth with a very detailed report, are well discussed. The service group failed to respond to comments, suggesting changes in constitution or comments on the financial and political activities, comments about the change of election systems, election arrangements, or the distribution of bodies is a personal matter, and in itself it is not a part of the urgent universal reexamination of the election laws and the election arrangement itself. This may well be said that the staff tried to keep party politics out of this business and view it as a professional solution to make suggestions for the professional and careful consideration of the total election laws in one bill. Mr. President. This work is ambitious and natural, but there are some opinions about the details of this matter, the transfers, and the technicalities I have killed on several of them, and I could add more. Of course, I know that among the councils, including the presidents of the clans and the members of the individual councils, the nature of the matter is found, according to comments on matters and hardly expecting anything else. But, eventually, I just want to put a lot of emphasis on it and ask for it. Councilmen to remember that since they have taken this assignment a little over and over again, they will not end up with the urgent task of receiving comments, some of which have been quite serious, which we have been given repeatedly after three months and four last general elections in the country. For various reasons, it has not been achieved, as should anyone, except for the political instability that has led to the early new elections over and over again. Now I think we've come closer to this goal than ever before. I therefore place high hopes that the bill will receive a good and thorough inspection on a committee, but of course it emphasizes that it is to be looked for the most comprehensive solidarity in this matter. How important it is for us as mature democracies that good peace is about such fundamental laws! After this discussion, a respectable president, I suggest that the case be passed on to 2nd. ... andtowhat. Board of Directors and Follow-up Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u140	President. A brief practitioner for the council. It was noted in the Presidency Commission's review of how this case should be proposed to be completed before the year. Clearly, it's not about to happen, so I want to ask. A senator: When would it really have to finish the bill so that it would be in time for it to be done and new elections could be started before the next election?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u141	Mr. President. That's a very valid question. I'm sure I'd be able to accept for myself the word that it would be desirable if people were to choose for this new law of September 25, next year that the bill could be fixed right now at the end of the year. I'm not going to say that it would be incompetent if it were so possible for the Council to work this case fast and well, and that it would be a law by February or by mid - March, something like that, that it would be too close to the coming General elections. But it is clear that there must be considerable gaps. It is not appropriate to be moving elections when elections are too close to elections, so I would now say that men would not have much time after the New Year's Eve if men at the second table wanted, would be interested, which, of course, were extremely desirable, that these new ambitions could be used immediately during the next election election. But I specifically point out that there is no way to hire here too much journey. We have nothing to do with choosing the old law. We'll just do it one more time, and it's just the same mistake. We'd probably get the same comments, but I think we did all right. Of course, these laws could simply be accepted into practice so that they would receive the full election in September of the next year and, for example, the following year. to vote for them for the first time during the spring election of 2022. I remind you that the rural communities were involved in this work, are very interested in this and its progress, look to these changes with a very positive look at them. It also does the Supreme Court that gets rid of the role that he felt uncomfortable, being a party to the election, i.e. The election of Iceland's president, so our partners, the Generals' partners on this matter, I think I'll be pleased to have this job completed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u142	President. Like what? A senator may have noticed a change in proposal, along with the bill in this issue. There are three changes, but mostly one change, i.e. In terms of the right to vote and how it most feels after the person has moved a legal home from Iceland. The setting found in the currently relevant bill is a decline in current rights. The present course is, in effect, that it can be maintained throughout your life, while the proposal for this bill is a maximum of 16 years. In effect, I would like to encourage the council not to compromise the rights. In fact, it is easier to change the current arrangement to the simple ones mentioned in the bill by simply calling off a vote file, as it's called, - it doesn't really need to - but to hold the voting rights just as it is without anyone having to sue for a vote every time. This should be much simpler in carrying out and maintaining the present rights. At least I find a great return if we cut off the election's rights to the new election.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u143	Mr. President. This is another question that surprises me. In fact, it did a lot of work and thought of a variety of ways, but it eventually agreed to make such a suggestion, to clear this automatic right, to double it from eight years to 16 and then to leave it at that point. I think it was very clear to them that this was something that was likely going to happen at the Council. Of course, it is possible to add behind a process in which rights can be renewed. I think it's perfectly clear that this automatic evacuation would be affected. The fact that people have lived in one and a half decades abroad that they are still connected or that they are just supposed to be involved in what is going on here is less and less. But there are always some. And I call attention to the fact that, as the provisional principle is made, all who have this right today would receive another 16 years. This would mean that those who have been using this right or less than eight years since they moved out or that they have reinvigorated once or twice then for 20 years, 24 years, consecutive 28 years without ever having moved their legal home to Iceland. I'm sure there would be much more to it than that. But even if it's just one person, you can say that it's the same basic as I do not comment on the fact that the committee goes well into the stitches on it. I'm not interested in taking from a man or any right they consider important. I remind you, however, that the Constitution has a legal home as a principle, but it allows the legislators to compromise with the lower legal requirements. This has been done by the lawgiver, who has been making room rather than getting tight in recent years. Now it's no longer a solemn complaint but a announcement to the national records, simpler in the fields than it used to be. [[The president calls.]] So this is a point that I'm sure the committee will look at.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u144	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator of history. I'm especially pleased with what was expressed in opposition to what happened. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's bear with regard to the time frame because I think it would be most desirable for us to get through this year in winter so that a new law could be chosen in the fall. But we have to have room to fail, and then we'll just trace it, so that they'll be selected for new songs in the elections afterwards, because it matters that this bill is given a careful inspection and a thorough review to the board of administrations and monitoring committees. There are many things that need to be changed. I have to admit that I miss the well-being of my editors and some of those things that have been under law. Most, though, seem to be improving. I am especially happy to have lasting support for the government's activities in order to gather the knowledge and the establishment memory needed to ensure the successful implementation of elections. For this reason, I just want to ask if there are no relevant sources available to collect statistics about voters. In recent elections, there has been some mistake that the Habitat could have had the age of distribution of voters from the voters. The natural thing needs to be clear. Then with regard to the executive administration. ESE recommends that their work is consistent, but the bill puts down six top-priced governments, and the role of them is that of 73 of the country's administrations. I wondered, " Is my agreement not so complicated, whether this is not a certain paradox in relation to the goal of being reached in the case of government? ' Don't we even need to rethink this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u145	First of all, I agree with what. Senator. In both the bill's report is under strict influence, and I only introduced it in my introduction that we are going to move on to the fact that one person has this project and is responsible for it and that there is no regard for elections for temporary losses, such as us Icelanders are now often accustomed to. I know it as well as I know it and I know how it has been in the councils that have been involved in the implementation of the elections, the Justice Department of the General elections, and some of the local Ministry. They may have had one person who worked on it before, and people are also hired to do it. Then it's over. Here, the thought is quite another, trying to build a harmony, harmony, and institutions in a administrative unit that handles this important task. With the voters statistics, I'd like to have a little more check. I agree with what. A senator's importance is to ensure that there is good information for humans. Of course, it has to do with what they have to do with ambitious plans for campaign research and a way to work with the drivingmit and other such. When it comes to going so far in agreement that the Supreme Governments are simply put down, and the ideal administrations of the rural society will handle this, it can be called a radical suggestion. But, first of all, there are two administrative levels in Iceland. Second, the top members of the community are a fact and need to be a fact, and they need to be good and well-lit and capable of performing elections. They are part of the General election. Of course, it is simple in itself that the steps are just two, and the guidelines of the national clauses are going directly into the ideal administrations of rural society, which are responsible for the votes in the respective territory, and that are how the votes are measured. [[The president calls.]] As I also said: Because my rural society is growing and they are growing, I believe that this arrangement can be a good thing. And yet again I say, If men continue to consider the role of the rulers, then let them discuss it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u146	President wants less of it. It is expected that the president will be addressed when speaking in a public chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u147	The senator will try to improve.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u148	Mr. President. I think this paradox that I can sense right there between the old administration and the new one could also be something that reflects the induction phase that needs to go through with new laws. Perhaps within the past six months, the system will not be ready, which could be passed from an approved law until the national government can properly impart to the local administrations of the administrations. But this is something that we're looking at on the Committee, I think. I'd like to ask about the proposal in the bill that a voter who prefers outside a ball meeting must not choose at a ball meeting because one of them let's say the most beautiful thing I've ever done in the Icelandic election system is what people who do elections go a long way to see that every voter wants to succeed. I feel like there's something wrong with that. If people change their mind and get to their place after votes outside a ballot and want to vote at a ballot, I don't quite see the evidence of their refusal. And about the beauty of the small Icelandic election system, you may be able to point to, for example. The provisional principle in this bill, which is about the election rights of those who were Danish citizens here on the land of 1994, which according to the report, were three individuals. Of course, we keep it up because it is three votes that have the right to return to the register. I wondered, " Do I care about the people who vote outside of a ball meeting? ' And then, in my last second, it didn't come up with the law to enforce the rules on the sex ratios needed for supplying, do I think, so that we can have a more satisfactory rate of gender at this council? [[The president calls.]] Inner protocols clearly do not exist. [[The president calls.]] There are always a few groups that are persistent. Although more parts are doing well, we obviously need more guidelines to control the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u149	Mr. President. The evidence is likely that there is no longer a need for man to dispose of his super-electory regulations and to vote for new ones is that deadlines begin at the same time and the start of the sub-election agreement. There is no longer the evidence that unexpected circumstances arose that suddenly new offers are introduced as men dying to choose whom they did not know before. It remains, of course, that there may be a change of mind or something else, and then it may be thought, even though it is a little more complicated, to keep this so that, although they have chosen outside the ideal meetings, most likely those in this country are the most suitable places, and all of a sudden find that they could be at an ideal place, because I remind that the general rule of the natural being chosen outside the ideals because they think they will likely be prevented from choosing an ideal place. Of course, that is not always an important reason, as we know. Then there are still other reasons, such as the fact that for epidemic reasons, people don't want to be in the crowd at the polls, that this could be the case. I guess, without wanting to go far with it, in some way people have been looking to the simple things in this, e.g. to the external and even post-election votes. I don't think it would be possible to divide this up, 'cause they might as well come home from abroad and want to vote in a place like they're here. Then I think I just sort of have the same answer, that it can be looked at. In terms of binding sex ratios. No. The committee held very loyal to its professional work prenup not mixing such political opinions with their work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u150	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for the discussion in this case and for the work presented here at the General Assembly. That's right. A senator, that the matter has a long connotation. We can say that in 2016 the changes in the election laws were well along, although they did not make the changes in the laws that lay ahead of the work done, if I remember correctly, for two years. The work shown in the bill, however, is somewhat larger or more factors than the 2016 job. Mainly speaking, there are changes that result from working this way to add to the terms of elections. Many of the changes shown here are the result. I'd like to say, in general, that there are a lot of things on this bill and the work we have here to do. There are a lot of interesting things here and there would be progress, absolutely definitely. I can also agree that there are certain aspects of the current election law needed to reconsider and to be able to consider from both relatively simple technical issues, but also larger issues, such as on charges and other such. I have to say, despite many benefits, there are still things in there that I would like to comment on or that the council should consider before the case is resolved. Some of these matters may be trivial and unfounded in this discussion, and it may be better to take the lead in committee activities, such as performance and other aspects of the procedure that are not necessarily necessary to be a special issue in this regard. But the things I'd like to fly around the 1st. The matter goes to the administration and to the changes there are proposed and organized by the main embassies. To make a long story short, because I'm not going to go through this discussion in a very long time, there's something I think I need to consider as to the orders and the role of the government. I'd like to say that I think, and, as it were, on any occasion, that there is reason to promote the national government, to increase the support they have, and to increase the convergence in her work. I may feel that the establishment of a national ultimatum with the regulations of the bill is fully under way and I wonder if all the factors listed as the desirable projects of the government of the country need to be there. Let's leave it. Some of these projects are already in the hands of the Ministry of Justice, and it may not be a crucial factor whether or not they are saved to the Ministry of Justice or to a national government. The important thing is that projects are well cared for and that governments that have them to do with them. I repeat what I say, maybe I'm a little far off about establishing a national government government. Actually, I have to know that in the previous editions of the bill, there was a talk about the establishment of a special campaign agency. There were comments, and it was published. But I may feel that the change is more important because what was supposed to be heard under an election agency is now under a national government without changing its contents. Let's leave it. That's a point I feel I can cross. In the same way, I also pondered the state of the national government. Here it is made up of a administrative committee under the Minister of Justice, certainly an independent administrative committee. Today, the government is a member of the General Assembly and is independent of it. I must admit that I would, if I had been writing and arranged for this bill, kept an arrangement and had the council vote for national politics, in view of the fact that those in charge of the highest election are to go to voters, although it is through a system of government. There are variations in what I feel, without reason, and there's a point I would consider a reason to examine the bill's review. In the same way, I comment that in the bill it is assumed that the general elections do not operate the government for the districts. I agree with what happened next. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson here, a paradox is a paradox by bringing down the super-election governments for each of the districts, however, it is easier for me to maintain harmony in action and the like, but to provide an important role for all local ideals, as it were. That's a point I'd like to go over. Of course, the basic unit of the General election is the district. We can make a decision on another occasion whether we want to have more or fewer ideals. But the basic unit of the General elections is the districts, and I don't think it's too bad that the more responsible elections and election campaigns in each district are in one place and not many. In the same way, I believe that a count of votes should take place in one of the districts in the way that so far has been done. Although it may be intriguing for political, political, political commentators, media, and others to know exactly how votes fall in individual societies, I don't think it's important to draw them out of democracy's viewpoints, because the ideals are the basic unit of total elections, not societies. I think it's more convenient to monitor the conduct of counties and other such activities in one place than many. On the contrary, it has been a matter of view that rural elections are already responsible for the ideal administration of the member of the community, and there has been no greater problem to it. I'm not questioning whether it's all possible. But in view of the fact that the ideals are basic components, I feel that this is the way it works. I think it also mattered to the surveillance and access of the agent at the count and so on. It is easier to deal with this if there are six places in the country in total elections and not in more than 70 places. It's a point I think it's important to look into the Senate. Other comments that I have come across now, and even at earlier levels, may be rather technical. I frankly admit that I ask myself, " Is the right to vote permanently after 16 years from the time the voter moves out of the country? ' I heard why. Councilmen here are tearing down ideas that after 16 years, a new thought that I feel is not different, even though it was evident that after 16 years the individual might have been connected to the country in some way. If a person has had a legal home outside the fossils for 16 years, he may not be a member of society in the same way as those living here and working and paying taxes and such. However, I believe there is a point that is very helpful in considering and reviewing the matter of the council. I'm thinking, like maybe more senators, about the possibilities for those who vote outside of a ballot meeting to vote again on their election day. I agree with what was said earlier, I feel that in itself it may not have to be a problem, although a person who has voted outside a meeting decides, because he has changed his mind or something, to come to a vote and, of course, it's the second vote that should apply. It's also a point I think it's a reason to look at. I'm scratching myself a little bit in my head over this new note about mail regulations. It is certainly a very limited or narrow source, but I would understand the right to reflect on the arrangement in which it exists. This is in addition to current sources of sub-aggression regulations that are excellent, although they certainly have, and are quite recognized, that there have been problems with the development abroad and in themselves to examine some new development in that relationship. Of course, the requirements for safety and such things must not be minimized. The same is true of the implementation of extracorporal votes, which include skilled election departments - I'm looking for where this is in the bill. But anyway, I think we have to make sure that while on one side, it is desirable to make sure that, as many as possible, natural votes also require security. V.E.G. President. My time has passed in this round. I'm glad we're being treated here at the council, but it's gonna take time to make as much dramatic a change as this is recommended. [[The president calls.]] It takes time to handle the council. We have to take time to do so in the affairs of the council. [[The president calls.]] And then it takes time to prepare the project when the law has been approved. You must not rush into such activities.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u151	President. In any case, 99% of this bill or so, it's a big bill and 99% is a lot, but also 1%, it's very good and a great improvement. If it weren't for that, mostly, which I mentioned earlier on the loss of the election rights of individuals with a foreign home to limit it to 16 years, we would probably have been partners on this bill. But we're subtracting the line at this point on a violation of the election rights. There's a basic rule between me and Pirates, a part of our baselines, to promote and protect civil rights. One basic thing in a democracies community is being able to participate in elections, and hence, we do not participate in reprisals. We make a very serious remark to that point. Certainly, there are not too many people who take advantage of this, but when there is one, that is enough, in my opinion. The same argument is, in effect, to maintain the right of elections and to release this so - called charge into a vote. If the connection declines and participates, it actually happens as automatically, as if the person holds the vote, whether he participates or not. So if it is cut at 16 years, and there are only a few who use the vote after that, it should not remember much of it and continue to vote and allow the few who continue to use it. This may be the case for e.g. Presidency elections, which may have seen nothing necessarily happened very often, may well be happening more often in the future. This may also mean that while a person has a home abroad, he has it only because he spends a little over a half of his life abroad. He's in a lot of contact with Iceland, land and nation, but because of his work, he'll be seven, eight months abroad. He thus maintains his alliance with the land, even though 30, 40 years pass. There may not be many cases, but as I say, one case is enough. The other two things we make comments are, as mentioned in the discussion, first of all, not being able to vote again on election day. After all, the ideal day is what matters. Everything else, outside-country regulations, mail regulations, and all that, are additional rights to participate in elections, the date of elections that is important. If something happens during this extended period of time after the election begins, which has happened several times in recent years, making elections happen, we certainly believe that people should be able to use their rights on a good day. Finally, it is very simple, but we offer an enormously important point. It is simply the addition to a regulations warrant that prior to the words of ◯ and the sealing of sufficiency comes: deunification. Conspiracy of all the cool data is crucial to the making of a good witness. There, I see a difference in the quality of elections and in the availability of elections. As shown in the case of what? paritaprevir ... Ármannsson, son of Aargia. I don't have names, it happens to me that I'm gonna be anonymously blind. It was very awkward when I was in PhD not to remember the names of everyone who wrote articles, but not who wrote them. Sometimes it was not too much fun talking to people about research because names were thrown back and forth, and I didn't know what they were talking about. But on the matter of what? A senator was considered the need for the election to be safe, against the court, and the availability of the election. Of course, we want elections to be secure, and this results in the initiation of data through the overall quality monitoring of the election, the amount of sufficiency used, and the amount of resources left in the budget, and many more. This is a very simple addition because it is only contained in a regulation warrant where quality control can be managed and the use of quality data will depend on the current level. This can be added over the years, making it better and better. But it is important that the law requires that the regulations govern the desalination of mutual data. Because of what lays. Ármannsson I'd like to mention that I've chosen abroad. It can be really complicated, and you've heard stories about people taking trains for nine hours just to get in and see some dictator, etc. I think the addition to post-election is enormously important to ensure access to elections. I think it's more important than election safety, and the post-elect data don't make the vote so uncertain that they should be causing trouble. Making participation easier is more important. It's more important to let people take advantage of the right to vote, especially when the risk is as low as it is with a method like a post-election. Overall, I hope that the bill will be treated fairly quickly and effectively by a administrative and surveillance committee. The process has been very long. Like what? The removal vehicle has been through consultations in many places. There have been a lot of quality checks, many of the checks, and there have been comments in many places, including the arrangement mentioned here, two meetings, or something that the committee received, nothing very much, much less than I expected. But I see changes in the bill because of comments made there. Thus, it has been reviewed in many places for a long time, and the bill as it appears today should be able to obtain relatively good money within the council without quick treatment to translate the ill or poor treatment of the council in a case where it had been through a very long process before it came in here. I'm not too worried about that. We could even finish this case at the end of March or at that time. If there are no special or very serious comments in the reviews, I'm not very concerned about the quality of the bill as a whole in these points. I would consider it a small risk, though the council would provide a bill as large as it is in a relatively short period of time, although, of course, I do not recommend any quick treatment. But apart from the changes presented here, I would like to have this bill approved in advance for elections so that it would be used immediately next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u152	Mr. President. I'd like to thank the members of the council who have participated in a late evening discussion on this subject, both in reply and in talks. I'd like to first address some of the points that have been involved in the role and status of the national government and its administrative position, which, of course, can be discussed. But then I remind you of what was presented in my introduction, that in this bill it is assumed that this administration will fall under both administrative and information law, which has not fully been valid against the elections so far. Of course, the general council prefers more parts, just more part now of the national government. Of course, there is something that can be considered, but it is because of the unity of one law, e.g. The country's community will arrive at the table as well. The thought of teaching the community is the link to study and study, as well as the like. Of course, there must be a well - established national government. One possible landing, perhaps as much as I expected it to be, was that the government of the country would get an independent position, working under the cover of the Generals. That, in my opinion, would have been just the case. But the conclusion was to view her as an independent administrative committee on the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. I can appreciate that when people think of regular election nights, they'd miss the presence of some top-priority executives, and I can quite accept it myself, each with his own standards, you'd miss hearing some of the executives come and describe the results of their own votes. On the other hand, of course, there is considerable simplicity that six such batteries, a lump of the General, and what they need to have around them so that they can do their job, disappear, and those who speak for a simple rule and may simply reduce the booth's view of it as part of it. But for the sake of fun, I don't demean that viewpoint, and I wonder about that in connection with national politics's guidelines down the chain. Clearly, it is important that a responsible person can guide and give counselling and try to ensure harmony at all levels of the campaign. And where does the campaign start? Yes, it begins with the top-seat board members of the community. Community governments are the basic units in all general elections. They will be, and they will be, regardless of whether there is a government of the district or not. They are e.g. Just one on the field when you're chosen to be a member of the country. Then you could imagine that the government of the land would be particularly concerned with guiding them and ensuring their harmony. In this regard, people may be concerned about ideal governments in small rural areas, which might not be too high to assist and have a good working situation. But since I know, and that's even. in very small rural areas, this is done with great conscientiousness, and people are doing a lot of good at it, and usually get the highest vote of campaigning all over the country because all the young men who are elected in the small community have already chosen at four o'clock. That's just how it is in a lot of places. When such things happen in the larger communities, I don't think we have to worry about it, they have a very handsome place in their own administrations, and in the case of Reykjavík, it's in themselves, except for the two terms. But this, of course, is something that humans can examine. I'm mainly stressing that, without my going to tell the board of administration and monitoring committees what to do, to want men to consider the possibility that the super-electors will remain in role, and that role will probably not be the least of the talk continued in the General election elections, well and well, they still have to define their roles and positions in the new arrangement because they don't have a role in rural elections, etc. In terms of the fact that the results are revealed in individual rural communities, which I know are different viewpoints toward, here is an intermediary process to set minimum population population. Of course, people can discuss whether he should be higher than I would point out that in our neighboring countries, I'm just thinking, in fact, he's counted at an elected place to ten votes or something like that. I like to watch elections in other parts of the North countries, and it's nice to see a tiny little rural society or a tiny little place to vote on with a vote of 10◯15. Of course, today, in large rural areas, the groups often offer their own list of political elements, so they know something about them. So it's not about that, I think, that there may be evidence that the country's rural communities may be classified in a different way for these reasons, that it is not to be seen in the smaller ratios of volunteers, but they do so directly and indirectly in the larger, because there is more about political contributions. It's rather the question of the campaign secrets, and not going too low on the fact that it's become so small a community and then votes that it's easy for a person to count it out completely. There I think the committee in itself has found an excellent policy, to have a minimum population number, which, in fact, will be unnecessary if it claims a team partnership where minimum number of inhabitants should become after two elections or then 1,000 people, but we'll see how it works. That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir It was good to hear that Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson thought the bill, if I just noticed, kind of 99% good, that's an excellent outcome. I am convinced that in the points he mentioned - and, of course, were a little on the table then when it was known that people would want to look at it, like the 16 - year vote for those living abroad and possibly extending it - they would not try to find a solution and get together on it and some other such things. Hv. A senator would say that if those scenes had been adjusted in the bill, then Porratar would have been ready to move it, and that, as a matter of conversation, I knew. Then I'll just say it exactly as it is, so there's nothing to be done about it, that I had conversations with various members of the council, and then with the heads of the classes, and there were certain custom types, and there were questions of a similar nature, if this were now possible, the relevant would be more likely to be on the move, etc. After something had been discussed, the matter sort of went on to feel that it was simpler that I would present the bill alone on behalf of the work that the Council has contributed and that the Council itself, the Council Committee itself, would be able to examine them in advance and the comments that would be of various kinds and that would have become quite complicated and slow, I think, to go completely round the job with the case in order to try to get it all together so that I could move the case with the premates. But I would like to state, and it should not be a secret, that the more part of the officers of the party was ready to stand for the transfer of the case. However, there were material warnings that were perfectly understandable and circumstances that made this way chosen, that, in a sense, I am content, that I would deliver the matter, explain what I could, as far as I knew from such material notices or feds had been built, and then simply refer it to the council to study it. For mail elections, very short at last, it would have been a great advantage, I think, if they thought we were getting a good hold of such a project, as well as having the best chance for it, to be, to be truly clear, we know that the Icelanders are incredibly diligent, although not a larger nation, to be just around the world, and in the most unlikely places where often there is a vast distance to the next man, much less the embassy, and men need to have a lot of it if they are going to take advantage of their election rights. Sadly, the conclusion is likely most often that humans simply give up on it, not before. So ask: Is there any fundamental difference between such a post-election vote and the preferment of an out-of-the-ceptance company, with some sufficiency that they may have gotten from a consul, and then have their own vote and need to get it home by themselves? It is not a big difference, then, if you send out whether you have mail and if you can find ways that can include. The technology can offer, that, with its name and social security number and all of it, they can print out complete goods to choose outside their place and fill out into two, three envelopes, one envelope, and one by their name and all of that, and then the third unmarked and send it into mail as if they would send their formal old-fashioned microbust code, I'm not sure that there is such a difference when they start thinking through this. But the practicality would be absolute. If they were to believe that this would have to be the quality data from home, they could be sent in mail and sent back. But I believe it's an exciting option to look at, but, of course, none of the factors, but additional efforts, as it was right here, to try to make it as easy as possible to take advantage of this sacred right as possible, the voter. I'll just have to say that the bill is based on a more careful job, as I think it and its very thorough report will go along. It is important, yes, that the council also be served well, and this will be examined. There is no rush in such matters. Of course, the other would be very exciting and very much fun if a person saw the possibility of legalizing it so that this might be a test run in the next fall. As I used to say and remind myself, I know that my rural society has for its own part a keen interest in the possibility of this happening. True, it will not have much effect on signing whether or not the next fall will be elected to the Generals, not in terms of, old or new elections. But I'm interested in this matter, and I'm concerned with the great importance that I'm quite concerned about it, because I know so well about it, Mr. President, that the tremendous amount and good work that has been put into this situation will eventually bring us new and complete election laws. The General has made a big contribution to the committees and has taken on costs and without seeing them, and now it may not be the day that it is the General but not the Commission that has the means to do this kind of work, so, of course, I have the ambition for the International Assembly to get a good result here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-15-38.u153	It is now known that humans will cease to quit.
