ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-20.u1	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for a bill to correct the change of organizational law. The bill is based on the proposals of two work groups, one undergroup for the work of the campaign group for repairs of the infrastructure set up following the storm that crossed the country in December 2019, and the other on the other, a group of staff appointed to discuss specific suggestions on housing initiatives made by biographies. The four proposals followed organizational procedures, including those made up of them. aims to reduce construction costs and cut down time. The proposals for these groups were advertised for presentation, as well as for the plans for the legislation and for setting up a bill for a change in organizational laws were published in government consultations for introductions and comments. The Government Treaty states that the government's priorities must be used in the most practical way in which energy has already been activated. To that end, the transport and distribution systems of electricity in the country need to be more reliable. It is evident in the fact that electricity main transport systems are extensive and that many rural areas are often covered, requiring complete coverage and environmental assessments as expected by the law. The bill suggests adjustments in organizational laws, No. 123/2010, in connection with the development of electrical transport systems, in the case of implementation of the main electrical transport system involving more than one rural community. Such projects may require changes in the main structure and implementation of the implementation of the implementation of each member of the country. If there is a regional structure, changes may also be required by the arrival of all the rural members involved. Thus, there is increased efficiency in allowing one joint planning decision to be implemented for such a project. The bill is therefore suggested to validate a collective planning to achieve a single implementation for the electrical transport system across rural boundaries. Such joint planning will be carried out in the hands of a special electronic committee that would be appointed representatives of all the rural groups to whom the decision of the respective organisations is to be met. The Committee also has a representative for the Agency to ensure professional knowledge, both the planning and the assessment of environmental impacts. A candidate is expected to take the initiative in asking a minister to appoint such a committee. The Commission's request should be made at the pre-prepared level and prior to the formal procedure under the legislation on the environmental impact assessment. The primary role of the electrocardiogram must be prepared and agreed with a strategy for the procedure, a joint implementation and monitoring of the procedure. The members of the local organisation are responsible for monitoring the implementation and on the basis of a collaboration agreement with the electron Committee. In terms of the costs of planning and implementation of the Commission it is expected that the recruiter will be subject to the service fee. The Agency will provide the Commission with task management and contact with managers. The evaluation of environmental impact and the role of the Agency will be formally unchanged, but the evaluation work together and integrated planning. An advertisement suggests that the main option will be advertised but it can also account for other options and the electro-linear committee can change the planning in accordance with the environmental assessment results in the final payment of the proposal, since the choice for the assessment procedure has been identified. On the basis of an electro-linear system and the results of environmental impact assessments, the electron Committee is expected to provide a joint implementation permit. If the Committee does not establish a joint decision, it is suggested that the case should be referred to an Environment and Resource Minister who will decide on options and conditions to be carried out in the terms of the organization's terms. Part of the provision of a housing staff, i.e. The other group I mentioned here at the outset, as a result of adjustments in organizational law, and aims to shorten the period of construction due to an apartment building, thus reducing the cost of building. The bill suggests the workgroup's suggestions on the shorter reporting deadlines and on increasing emphasis on electronic administration and digital services. Therefore, the bill suggests that the principle of organizational law should be set aside about a six - week comment period for the specified components of the shared organization, i.e. proposal to change the family structure of housing. A four - week comment period must be granted, provided that a rural society has published prominently two weeks earlier plans for the changes in the shared organization. In organizational laws, the principle is that once every time a comment is made to suggestions on the change in organizational plans is at least six weeks. The Organization, however, contains exceptions from that rule. Laws do, for example. assuming that a minimum of four weeks of comment time is allowed to replace shared structure with local presentation. The key point is that the common people are aware of the proposed suggestions and, in effect, have the opportunity to promote their views. That's what I'm putting on a lot of emphasis. Thus, the required length of the reporting may vary according to the nature, size, and order of consultation. By separating ad of the proposed proposal from two weeks before the publication of advertisements, public participation and making sure that the public is aware of the change. It is also proposed to measure the geographical data and consultation recommendations that will be implemented by the Organization. The portal is intended to be a organizational consultation and information site. Digital, open access to data in the construction and preparation of projects is an effective way of strengthening consultation and presentation to the public. A digital portal also provides opportunities to reduce complexity and bilocation, shortening channels, and increasing perspective and transparency processes. The increase in digital public services in recent years may have been emphasized, but financial and economic services are being carried out on a digital Iceland project agency as well as on the information and services of Iceland. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject. I suggest the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-20.u2	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for this speech and congratulate him on his bill. I admit I haven't read it all through, it's a little bit of a law, but I think it's very important that we simplify this system. It has proved true in recent years, and I do not doubt that this was all done with good intentions, the entire code of law that we have built up around organizational matters. It is important that the structures built up and built up be safe, with the least impact on our nature and our service to its purpose. We want to ensure the availability of public and stakeholders in the process and so on, but that's my experience, after being chairman of a organisational organisation for over ten years, that all the systems we've been building around this kind of project are being built around the system itself, not the people to whom it was intended to serve. I just want to say hi to the highest. A minister of sincere happiness in the matter, this sounds like a reasonable way to cover the materials we have been dealing with, as with the electrical systems of many rural societies that need to be reused in the process. I think this is really important, and I wish. The Environment and Transport Committee will benefit by working on this matter and hoping that they will be able to accomplish it carefully, but also rapidly and safely.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-20.u3	Mr. President. I was going to jump for a short answer to the minister, but I was only too late, so I just think a very short talk instead. Just to mention what was actually presented in this discussion, there may be a dangerous example. Yes, it has, of course, been reluctant to get together in the complex transport pathways of electricity, but the solution is not necessarily to tear down the organizational authority from the context of local governments. The solution may be that an electrical transport organization prefers to the needs of ordinary users rather than some large - scale structure ideas, which have been too often the case. This method may be effective, but this authority needs to be approached with great caution, and it also needs to be absolutely clear that it is not an example for other projects. We know, and know the examples of this hall, that there are voices of tearing down another kind of organization out of its context, e.g. to take the planning around the General Assembly Hall and to transfer it from Reykjavíkurburg to the governor of the land. It was a proposal made several years ago at a council assembly. Then there are ideas to set aside in the area of Reykjavík, saying that the city of Reykjavík is not organized. We need to make sure of this. It would be best not to make any special reconciliation because if these projects are properly performed, if they serve the right goals, they should be able to make peace. So I'd like to point out what I recall in the review of Land Guard in the plot of consultation, that it would have to be stated in these laws that the structure was in the interests of public users, so that the people of the organization, the people of the region, would not be experiencing any decision over their rights in behalf of corporations in a distant hurry. The third factor to be considered is that there will be a guard for the entrance of the public to protest and anything related, since we do not want to step in the direction of an increasing public body in matters as important as organizational matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-20.u4	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the discussion, and I just want to step in on it for a second. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson mentioned. I agree with what. A member of the public needs to be assured in all this process, whether we are talking about organizational matters, environmental impact assessments, or other decisions that come closer to our community, environment, or nature. It does not have any complicating effect on it with this bill at all, no. Of course, it would be best if these cases could go for themselves, but they have, and I agree with them too. Senator. But it hasn't been. It may be too much to consider, but there are many reasons. Hopefully, this environment is improving, the cooperation between managers, managers, landowners and the general public. With this arrangement we are setting up here by providing the communities through which the proposed projects continue to extend planning, and the state enters the establishment of the Organization, we will definitely get the professional aspects of the government. I think there'll be a really good change when this happens. We also need to keep in mind that this is a special project. This is a project designed to ensure electronic security and thus to enjoy special advantages. I don't think this should have any greater values than is suggested here and therefore agree with the problem. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, this bill will go no further than the electrical exchange, as shown in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-20.u5	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a change in nature protection law. The bill suggests that some of the laws of the law can be changed and divided into three categories. First, there are adjustments to the terms on nature calendars, treatments for its preparation, and the peaceful description of individual areas. Second, there are adjustments in regulations related to the terms of the terms of the terms of terms of peace and, on the other hand, no bans on driving outside. Finally, third, a new provision is made for the mapping of wild lands. There is some experience regarding the implementation of peace reports in accordance with the procedure described in Article 36. and 38,◯40. par. Natural protection laws. The treatment consists of two kinds, depending on whether or not you are working on a peace description of a territory discussed by the Council in the Environmental Action Programme of Nature and Nature Protection Programme under older legislation or if you are considering a peace description not on this strategy. A non-enforcement area can be declared on a naturalminary or a natural protection programme if a land owner and local community are agreed to it. For such specific terms of peace details, specifically the plans for a peace description need to be made and referred to in the same procedure as a proposal for the implementation of a nature-memployment plan. This means that single forms of peace need to be presented for eight weeks at least. Thus, according to current law there is no distinction between the time when the presentation of national peace-adversaries should take place and suggest the whole implementation of a program. The long introduction date is therefore based on the fact that it refers to a presentation suggesting a revised nature calendar far more extensive than any agreement a Minister is permitted to make. In view of experience, it is considered appropriate for a covering period based on individual peace descriptions to be reduced to a minimum of two weeks. Of course, if it is uniquely emancipated, it can be advertised for longer than that. However, the introduction time will be the implementation of a natural memory file, eight weeks. However, I would like to state that although this presentation period is cut from eight weeks to two in terms of a unique peace description plans, the terms of the peace conditions in the area where they are available will be set in addition to a second presentation process, which is currently three months but proposed to be shortened for six weeks. By shortening these deadlines, you can speed up the process of peace from what is currently available. The six - week delay would be comparable to making up a comment on planning and the primary assessment report. Another change in the plan of peace light is that the bill suggests that when such plans are introduced, a certain category of peace would not have to be established. That the aims and purposes of the proposed peace reports need to be minimised, but the purpose of the presentation of the plans is exactly to call out indications on the territory and therefore may be presented with information in the introduction process that may require a different peace category than was originally proposed. Thus, this change will evaluate the category of peace that will be chosen for making terms of peace terms with the access of the laws. Finally, a change in where the proposal is made is made that the revised nature calendar should be published. Today it is stated that it is published in a newspaper published on a national and Legal journal as well as on the Homepage of the Ministry and the EEA. The bill expects this to be changed so that the motion is advertised in a law - inspired newspaper, on Web sites, and in other ways as appropriate. I still want to reiterate that the proposal will continue to be sent to the countryside, to nature protection committees, to nature agencies, to other public agencies as appropriate, to stakeholders and other stakeholders who are interested in reporting. Only responsible matters are being proposed to be more consistent with modern communication. Then I turn to the next category of changes proposed in the bill, which is a 4 mg change. 31st ...of an exception to the prohibition on driving outside the road and on the 1st. 41 st. that deals with terms of peace. Such provisions are in accordance with current legal requirements today on the hands of a minister. The arrangement allows for the final decision in the relevant matter to be made that cannot be revised in a administrative level. This is not in accordance with the Worker's Convention on access to information, participation in decision-making and access to a fair environmental trial. The bill expects these decisions to be made by the EEA. Linked to this change is 7.g. The bill that suggests a change to the law's law that deals with the operation of the law. Finally, in the bill, a new arrangement is proposed that a minister be allowed to set a regulation on the mapping of uninhabited lands. Already there is a presuppose that the analysis of the world in the highlands and that the Organization has been responsible for that work. It would be proper to map the same uninhabited territory in other parts of the country and thus form a complete overview of the uninhabited territory of the region. I'd like to state that such mapping does not mean that a region is uninhabited, but such a declaration would always be based on the legal procedure. In my opinion, however, the mapping will facilitate all work on organizational decisions of rural governments, such as making and adjusting their planning and decisions on land use. This is suggested that the first mapping of the uninhabited regions should be completed prior to June 1, 2023. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject. I suggest the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-20.u6	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a synopsis on the construction of a new national hospital at Kldur. With me are members of the Central Party Parliament: Bergþór Ólason, Þórarinsson, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, Karl Gauti Hjaltason, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, Jónsson, and Þörstein Sæmundsson. This proposal has a number of consequences, but three times I have proposed to the Council to investigate the best location for a new national hospital, to make a local screening. It is now time for the General Assembly to conclude that a health - care minister would begin planning for the future construction of a new national hospital in Copenhagen, which may have been part of the United States. The role of being the country's number one hospital. Ministers are expected to provide the needs and cost analysis, including with regard to quality, transport, traffic and security, and in accordance with the trade providers in its processing. According to this, it is important to remember that the national hospital, the Lands Hospital on Ring Road, will not be able to perform its function properly because of location, especially because the Ring Road is no longer the center of the capital area, although that location was suitable for some years. The proposal I am making here now states that together with preparation for the future establishment of a new national hospital, there will be an investigation of the willingness to use buildings on a circuit or a local hospital. The results of the analysis will be completed only in May of the following year, 2021. To further explain this proposal, as I said at the outset, the proposal for a new national hospital has been made several times here at the General but is now changed to consider that the future construction of the National Hospital at Krvegur, Reykjavík. To review the story, Icelandic and foreign experts wrote opinions of the year 2001•2008. Most of them found that it was best to build a new national hospital from its foundation in a new location. However, the experts who wrote felt that if a new hospital could not be built from scratch in a new location, it would be best to build at the hospital in Fos Coord or the old Land Hospital on Ring Road, which was said to be the second or third best option for building up. The results of building at the National Hospital on Ring Road were based on the main organization of Reykjavík in 20013/42024, but the overall organization's foundation seems to be smiling, not one of the expected traffic and planning programs. Therefore, the current hospital location seems to be based on an out - of - date organization, and it cannot be ignored if access to Ring Road can create insecurity for those in need of emergency services. A report published by the University of Bifrost and the Research Institute for Industrial Science in November 2015 included the EEA's workforce in November 2015. to suggest that the ringway was not for the future location of a national hospital and that the economic benefits of another location were considerable and that it was urgent to resume the situation. The report on a better hospital in June 2015 said that the cost of building and operating a new national hospital differs according to location. The organization compared three places, construction of old buildings on Ring Road, building on Fos Soil, and building a new hospital from base to base, a new place closer to the home of the capital and the main traffic system. KPMG crossed the calculations, examined the criteria and confirmed them based on the criteria given. The comparison showed that it was more practical to build in Fos Cove than it was on Ring Way, and it was even more practical to build a new national hospital from scratch in a new location. Therefore, the primary objective of this recommendation is that preparation will begin at the construction of a new hospital in Köldnaland, in Reykjavík, which has been included. The role of being the country's number one hospital. Events of the last year have certainly called for a review of having both secondary and third - degree services at the same site with the related disturbance of the clockwork. So it is very important to have needs and cost analysis, including Based on quality, transport and traffic security, as I used to know. At that job, it is expected that a minister will consult with professionals, such as planning specialists, medical care assistants, helicopter pilots, engineers, business experts, traffic experts, health professionals, and other factors might be counted. The results would have to be made available to all the public and politicians so that they can clearly see how the proposed location of the nation's hospital at the Felts is being made available on key indicators of importance. I expect the Council to respond well to this proposal and to get a good, careful discussion on the subject. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-20.u7	President. The General concluded to hide the marine export and agricultural minister's position of carnivore and plan the implementation of technology for Icelandic agriculture to speed up the competitive development of carnivores to produce traditional fishing or food productions. A summary of the status of carnivores is available no later than November 1, 2021, and a minister offers a proposal for a government decree on carnivore management as far as March 1, 2022. This matter is of utmost importance to the future. This proposal has previously been made to the 146, 147, 148, 149., and 150th legislatures, but unfortunately it did not go beyond the committee. Carnage is a way of making meat without slaughtering an animal. The idea has existed since 1912, when a scientist named Alexis Carrel managed to keep cells from the heart of a chicken alive for a period of 34 years, 191946, outside the body of a living organism. They could have been kept alive longer than they forgot to eat their cells. It was a student who didn't wake up one morning or something like that, and that culture was lost there. In 1931 Winston Churchill predicted that within 50 years we would be free of the absurdness of growing whole chickens just to eat thighs or chests. In 1995 the U.S. Food Organization adopted attempts to cultivate meat with the goal that food would not be a problem on long space trips. This methodology, this technology, has a vastly broad impact on life and human society and the environment and the natural world. The main advantage of growing meat beyond animal culture for human consumption, and for animal breeding as well, is the environmental impacts. In the United States, 25% of all meat goes to pets. That alone could be a tremendous basis for starting a carnivore, i.e. It could be used for pets that have grown meat before it would be safely judged for human consumption. The main advantage is the environmental impact and, although it may be less appropriate in Iceland, it doesn't need to use antibiotics in carnivores. There have been extensive studies on the environmental effects of carnivores. The data show that the reduction in greenhouse gases in carnivores of meat is 78,96% and not a problem in agriculture. For carnivores it takes 99% less land space and 82±96% less water, depending on the type involved. Only smaller energy is used in bird culture, since birds are grown in closed, dark houses, hardly light bulbs in many cases, not very good. The amount of meat that is to be meat must be 73/445% lower than the energy e.g. Swamp and traditional animal culture. I have a link in the report to the study that refers to these figures. No matter what Iceland does to prepare this food - producing technology, this country has to cope with the changes that carnivorous consumes. Although the demand for meat of animals does not necessarily disappear, it is likely to reduce very much, although only due to environmental impacts. It may affect agriculture and fishing in Iceland as well as in other parts of the world. It is therefore very important that Iceland is prepared for this technological progress, both in strategy and in policy. I'd like to put it this way: I think it's a huge opportunity for the agriculture that's being practiced here in Iceland at the moment. As I say, animal products are always demand and, in fact, animal and animal meat. Just as we don't have to catch ourselves wild animals for food anymore, because we're more natural with fish, that's what we do. Still, grouses and reindeer are being fished, and so on, although there is really no need. There's still a demand for it. Although it may be smaller, I think that the opportunity for agricultural farming is tremendously good at the commercial market. If anything, it can turn out to be a positive development for Icelandic agriculture, and it's really exciting. In general, it is also extremely important to think about it well, for this makes it necessary for us not to take huge ships out and fish for sheep, etc. This could make smaller fishing, hand fishing, and the like much more profitable, more practical, and better treat of the resources we have around the sea. It may simply be that the policy is that we simply need to leave nature alone, except for sustainable fishing that smaller fishing opportunities allow. According to the UN Food and Agriculture Organization, nearly half of the world's crops are needed to feed animals for human consumption; about 1.4 billion cows, 1 billion pigs, 20 billion chickens, and 1.9 billion sheep and goats. However, it takes a few pounds of food to make a kilo of meat. If only calorium is calculated, 44% of current agricultural production would be sufficient to feed mankind, not the 83% of animals'pale production for human consumption. As global warming, as a result of changes in where and whether adequate food for man's consumption can be cultivated, and because mankind is growing by 2.5 billion in the next three to four decades, it will be a huge challenge to maintain the present arrangement. Something's gonna get out of the way. True, many people prefer a lifeless life - style in which meatless products have been produced, yet they struggle to be more like meat. The fact is, meat continues to be consumers, and while many switch to a lifeless life - style, meat remains abundant in earth's diet. The problem is the production of industrial productions in animals for human consumption. This is not a sustainable carnivore for the population that the earth will provide in the coming decades or for the climate change that we will see to it. Hence, it is necessary to make changes and there is a possible solution, and there is meat. All you have to do is clear that way. This is a innovation project that has tremendous potential, both for climate and for the challenges we face because of population growth. But it is also health issues. The origin of world epidemics in recent years and decades has been around wild animals, their mixing with other animals, or those animal markets where wild animals come in, or just in mass production factories, where overuse of antibiotics produces many resistant bacteria. This is a health problem because in carnivores, mass production can be eliminated; these markets are no longer needed with wild animals because access to food and food is much easier. They do not make it necessary to have such a market, although a tradition is behind which it is difficult to deal with, but it needs to be done. Thus, this technology is extremely important as health issues. Furthermore, this technology is also extremely important as a matter of peace. If anything is, it is not absolute, then one who is full is not as militant as the hungry. We should all know about going to the store when we're hungry. We buy something different than when we're not hungry at the store, and that's just small compared to those who may at all have to suffer a lack. But this is an amazing development. This is actually the first revolution of feeding for mankind from the time we set a fence around animals and plants and grains, and so on. That's where the beast is. So far, we've only been doing better with fences around animals, etc., certainly a variety of technical developments within that series. But the basic concept is always a fence around an animal and a field. It's not much more complex than that. But this is a revolution. As with today's technology, the best way to cultivate meat is to use large amounts of fluid from an embryod cow, used in cell culture, for studies, etc. The aim of all the manufacturers involved in this technology is that there are no expensive products in the manufacturing process. There will not be any marketed product of cultured serum meat. There is the largest technological fence needed to reach, both of which have to be exported from this small production currently, and is relatively expensive, e.g. is making chicken chicken chicken chicken now, and who may cost $50 - the farm needs to be reached from this small environment to the big environment, and that step is nothing, of course. The other is to obtain the nourishment that the cells need from something other than an animal product. So there are still challenges. Predictions show that 35% of all meat in the world in 2040 will be cultivated meat. Some people like to call it pure meat. There is a certain argument about whether this meat can be called or not. For all these reasons, how big an environment it would be to get there, how much health it would be to get there, how much peace would be getting into the world where this technology is and generally used, the more important it is to help get there sooner than later. And that is what this proposal is, to examine the situation as to what is expected of evolution, and to set and shape a policy on how this is to happen sooner.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-20.u8	President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Foreground Leví Gunnarsson's project of an important environmental environment for which the Piranians measure here. You see, they think about the future, they think about solutions, and they think about the environment. The proposal is simply to investigate the situation in this important environment and to contribute to the development of new technologies in order to ensure a healthy life in the future. Like what? paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson entered them, the main option of cultivating food for food beyond animal culture is the environment. Carnivores produce 789966% less greenhouse gases than traditional animal species, and uses 99% less land space and 829966% less water. These are huge numbers, enormously important, because we know that one of the major factors in global greenhouse gas growth is the animal production. We also know that there is an increasing demand for green grass and an increase in the number of individuals who eat such foods only. This would be just one benefit to make it easier for us to move on to a lifeless life - style, each one of us. I'd like to mention Sir David Attenborough, who's been running around with us, trying to reduce the consumption of animals. It has called for people to reduce their consumption of meat in a very cool and important documentary available on Netflix, called A Life on Our Planet, or Life on our planet. That is exactly what room - consuming meat production is, the production of animals for human consumption. According to the UN Food and Agriculture Organization, nearly half of the world's crops are needed to feed animals for human consumption and, in turn, for food. A senator came in earlier, these are more than billions of animals each year made up for human consumption. This could be done with much less carbon footprints, much less water, and much less territory if we were to participate in the evolution of science. We also know that with increasing crowds, there will be a growing demand for meat for human consumption. As a result, there is nothing to wait for. Let us take the future into our own hands and, once in the course of evolution, be part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-20.u9	A respectable president. I'd like to come up here and give this matter a sincere appeal to the circuit overseer and to all of us. So, as mentioned in the discussion of this carnivore bill, this is important for the big interest that we often address, perhaps not often enough, which is the environmental impact and climate. Carnage is a big solution. The animal protection criteria, as mentioned here, are also important, and carnivore is a much more civilized way to approach being carnivores than the present. Of course, consumption habits are changing among people, and this is an exciting addition to the silly food we already have. I don't have much more to say about this, except again: It's cool. I'm on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-20.u10	Madam President. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the modeling of a whole-scale sports policy. The motion is as follows, by permission of the president: The General concluded to hide the Minister of Education and Culture to shape a comprehensive policy for athletes in cooperation with Iceland's Industry and Olympic Union and the countryside. The course will be timed along with the possibility that financial support will be given to dignitaries. Ministers report to the Council for Time - appointed Sports Strategy for Achievement by June 1, 2021. That's what's up with me. The members of the people of the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, the daughter of Jándímsson, the daughter of Þorbjörg, the Sigríður of Gunnlaugsdóttir, Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, and Ásmundur the son of Friðriksson. This is not the first suggestion of this kind, but hopefully for the last time, at least For now. That's right. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter, in October 2012, suggested that the focal point for athletes be developed. It was a few years ago that the U.S. men in handball had won silver medals at the Olympic Games, from a series of disabled athletes who had won awards for the Olympic Games for several years in a row. At that time, successful athletes had become European champions, both teenagers and women. Then, in Europe, our girls playing soccer team was joined by the best in the world, just to name something that had happened then. And what is the situation today when this proposal is now being made for the third time in this council hall? Our Karlaland team has joined us. It has played at two Grand Prixs, the 2016 European Championships, and the 2018 World Championship, an accomplishment that swept the whole nation, and it is my desire to tell the entire inhabited earth. Now that we were so close to reaching our goal for the third time last night, it's awful to make that suggestion. But in some respects it still promotes the importance of this matter. Our handball team continues to go to one after another like nothing for granted, and much more could be counted; basketball, swimming, free sports, skiing, and all the other things I can't count up here. High - quality sports has established a glorious place among the people of the country, and our successful athletes have been an excellent foreign land culture. At the same time, all of us are increasingly aware of how important it is for young people to have good role models in this regard. It's going both ways because it's just a little bit from a strong childhood and teenage job, the root of which our great accomplishments are being raised. This is important for young people, and it is more important, more urgent, and more important than ever, when we have the results after surveys that show the number of Icelandic children who are not able to exercise enough each day, and in addition to what we now know, that this affects not only the physical person but also the development of the brain. Many things have been done on the part of the government that are worthy of mention, by special contact within the sports movement, which has enabled them to endure national teams and participate in international work as representatives of Iceland. A sports club's travel fund has been strengthened and has been supported by the Affeks Association of Iceland. But better, if it's enough. During the past decade, Icelandic athletes have regularly called attention to their poor economic and rights status. In December 2019, less than a year ago, a group of athletes signed a petition to the Ministry of Education and Culture and to others involved in working on the pay and rights of Icelandic athletes. The declaration of the group includes: to the fact that effective strength from the ISI Benefit Fund is more often than just the income of successful athletes to finance competitive and exercise outings. The concentrations are not defined as pay, leading to the failure of successful athletes to earn rights during the course. After it ends, many successful athletes are stuck with debt on their backs and no rights, without pension rights, trade union membership, unemployment rights, access to medical and staff funds, or rights to maternity, to name something. Iceland's Olympian team has developed its achievement policy of temporary, targeted plans for performance at large conventions. To ensure the long - term efficiency of the aims, as well as to look at the results, it is necessary to strengthen your own ability and abilities of the movement to achieve long - term goals in achievement. Many athletes, in cooperation with rural society, have done the same. In view of the importance of success, whether in team sports or individual sports, and how important it is, not just for the individuals involved in this success, their communities, or their relationships with which they work within, but for the whole nation, it is time for the government to oppose achievement policies in sports in cooperation with rural communities all over the country and in cooperation with Iceland's Italian and Olympic association so that the support for sports movement will be consistent. So this body of interpretation suggests that a minister will be assigned to shape such a whole course and that policy involves both professional and financial strength - in our opinion, it cannot be separated - and that its policy will be cooperated with the Olympian Union and the rural communities to ensure that as many share as possible is involved in work and that it will reach out to those to whom it needs to be met. In this way, it is more likely that the policy will become the basis for a strong support to our dignitaries, which, in turn, increase the likelihood that the greatest success will be achieved in all possible ways, that our accomplishments will have exemplary conditions to achieve this success and that we will cherish the same people, both during and in the process. We feel that a policy must be timed, e.g. to the next five to ten years, and that financial support will be provided concomitantly, and then the course will be reviewed annually. We believe that it is best for the Minister to submit a timely policy prior to June 2021 and that a minister will maintain the General and Education Committee, which will receive this case for the conniving treatment of the case, informing the progress of the case. Madam President. Yesterday, he moved. paritaprevir Helga Helgadóttir Helgadóttir's proposal on behalf of the United Nations Hall for the Minister of Education to agree with the secretary of finance to submit a bill for a remuneration Act. I think it's very important and desirable in all places that these two suggestions will be put together whenever possible and that they'll both get a quick and positive payment here in the Senate Hall. We have such amazing accomplishments, and it is of infinite value, but it is by no means default. It is important that we all remember that such results do not come naturally. It's not for anyone. There is a targeted, amazing work, clear policy, and goal. A nation such as we are needs only to think that such a course is intertwined so that we can ensure that we are fit to exist in the field of achievement. But a strong vision is needed, a good outsider, and a powerful work is needed all over the country. That is why this proposal is submitted. I hope and believe that a body of Congress will ensure the good and positive contribution of both of these proposals I've mentioned here because there's a great deal of interest in all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-20.u11	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synopsis proposal for housing security for temporary and nursing mothers. A moving man in addition to me is Inga Sæland. The suggestion reads: ▪ The General concluded to hide a health minister to prepare and provide a law bill that states the following: 1st Governments and rural groups will be obliged to provide elderly patients who have undergone performance and health assessment, residence or nursing space within 60 days of evaluating the possibility of having the righting of such measures. 2. Education and health assessments should be published no later than 10 days after the application procedure. 3. Elderly persons who have stayed for more than 10 days in a hospital without any specific treatment will be provided with a living room or clinic. 4. Doctors may decide that a person who apparently needs to be saved in a nursing room does not need to undergo a performance and health assessment to obtain a stay in an appropriate setting. 5. A husband's wife or spouse should be placed in an institution for the elderly, regardless of whether he or she has had an employment or health status, he or she has the opportunity to spend time with a household member. A person gains the right of his own home as an institution for the elderly. Ministers provide the bill for this subject at the fall Summit of 2021.◯ This resolution proposal was previously proposed to 149th and 150th legislatures, 41st cases. The number of nurses waiting for them increased by 60% at national level between January 2014 and January 2018. At the same time, the number of those waiting increased by more than 90 days after nursing room by 35%. From 2014 to 2018, the mean waiting time after nursing space ranged from 91 days to 116 days. Of the 186 subjects assigned to nursing in the third quarter of 2014, 57 subjects waited longer than 90 days. During the third quarter of 2018, 77 out of 175 people waited longer than 90 days for their medical care. According to the surgeon general's assessment, published in June 2020, statistics for waiting for permanent living in a nursing home are presented. It shows that in 2019, on average, 220 people were on a waiting list in the capital area after a nursing space, more than 70% more than in 2015. On average, there were 16 persons on the basis of a waiting list for health care, or 6.6 per 1,000 elderly people in the district. In 2015, the corresponding ratio was higher than or 21.3 per 1,000 elderly people in the district. In 2019 the average was 29 on a waiting list for general nursing in the West, more than a year before. The increase has continued on the waiting list, but during the first quarter of 2020, this number was reached by 45 individuals. On average, in 2019, there were 11 people on a waiting list for a medical space. The average number on the wait list for nursing in the Northland grew from 2014 to 2017 but has then been replaced by years. During 2019, the average waiting list was smaller than the last two years. By the end of 2019, there were 109 general nursing facilities in the East, with the highest frequency of population. Since 2016, the number of waiting lists there has been similar; on average, in 2019 there were 17 on the waiting list. Finally, in the last five years in the South, the average number of waiting lists has remained somewhat similar, with an average of 20 persons on a waiting list in 2019. In 2014, 114 individuals died on a waiting list, 141 in 2015, 178 in 2016, and 183 in 2017. At the same time, there was a 6% decrease in the number of general nurses and about 60% of them between 2007 and 2017. In 2019 the country had 2,648 nursing homes but a 179 residence. In 2017, the general health of 2,526 were living space 281. In 2007 there were nearly 2,700 living space, over 700. The rurals provide housing for elderly nursing and day care, but the state assigns capitals to each of them. Thus, the rural community is dependent on the distribution of nursing and living cows from the state, and so the problem is that rural communities often do not receive, despite repeated requests, financial support to increase the numbers of nursing and in ways that they do not have. It will increase pressure on governments if the maximum waiting period for custody is legalized. Failure to comply with a law code for a maximum waiting time may result in damage to the person who is entitled to the option. It is recommended that the maximum waiting period for the residence or nursing period be 60 days. There will be a considerable delay in the time you spend in the nursing room if you have to wait a long time for your performance and health assessment. A waiting for performance and health evaluation must be ensured as soon as possible to obtain appropriate measures. This can be done with improved design and increased funding for the project. It is therefore suggested that you have to issue performance and health assessments no later than 10 days after the application procedure. If there is no doubt that a person needs room or shelter, there should be no restrictions in the system. It is therefore suggested that elderly persons who have stayed for more than 10 days in a hospital without any specific treatment will be provided with a living room or clinic, although performance and health status have not been performed. This arrangement reduces hospital reperfusion problems - which is a very ugly word and should be used for the term "interpretationary pocket" to be used. Using the word "perfusion problem " for the older citizens of this country sucks. A graduation problem is the right word, and then it is the graduation problem of the system and the government that is in control at any given time. This arrangement reduces the problem and helps people to get in the right way. It is also suggested that physicians can decide that persons who apparently need to be saved in a nursing room do not need to undergo a performance and health assessment to be maintained at an appropriate facility. In such cases, there is no point in extending the procedure that an individual must undergo in order to obtain the right option. Older citizens who live in an institution for the elderly are often forced into separation because they are not able to stay with their mates or with their spouses. It is human right to make sure that residents in aging institutions can remain together with their mates. The goal of this proposal is to make it possible for people to continue living with their mates, who for health reasons have had to move to a home that requires physical and mental status. Therefore, it would no longer be necessary for a healthy or healthy partner to live elsewhere than for the weaker one. This would prevent separation. A respectable president. It has been shown that daily expenses do not cover the expenses of nursing homes. As a result, their community business is being cut off, and services to weaker older citizens are also to be severely reduced. The number of specialized psychiatrists and therapists will then be reduced, which is ridiculous and embarrassing to us. What will the last years of our weaker parents, grandparents, and grandparents be like? Since then, there has been an ugly spot on the affairs of nursing homes where forced transfer of disabled persons has taken place, which is ridiculous. It is absurd to be forced to transfer disabled persons to a nursing home without consent. To get on a waiting list for health care is ridiculous and that all they need is that those waiting for this service are being deceived. I can't believe we already have a dual system waiting list, an older citizen's waiting list for a performance evaluation and a waiting list to get into a waiting list that will get you into a nursing home. How sad it is to think that the system is working in this direction! I ask myself, " What will be the next part of this system? ' Will there be a waiting list to get into the performance system, then a waiting list to be suspended in the performance system and then a waiting list to get into a nursing room? Triple system; waiting list to access waiting list. If that's the solution to this government, I'll say, "Guð help us." We're supposed to make sure once and for all that our older citizens, who need to get to a nursing home, will be there. They are not at risk, and their families are falling apart because they worry that sick people, their parents, their grandparents, will not be able to go to a nursing room. Just to try to help their parents, letters, or grandmothers, would have to be put away by Pontíus Heródes in the system. That sucks. I can't believe we've had these things like this and we've had them for years. We must also realize that if we do not handle this right away, right now, it will get worse and worse. We know that over the years the number of older citizens is increasing, and we need to find solutions so that those who need and want to go to a nursing home get in. We also need to find solutions to short - lived lists, how to serve them, and preferably to eliminate the list of waitings. Since the election, the government has been preaching campaigns for the growing nursing homes. They have been hired, and someone has been put to use, yet they have delayed for the longest time, and their problems have increased. It's no secret that in the years ahead there will be a need for more room. We have been aware of this for decades, and it is no secret that in the past century Iceland grew considerably as life expectancy grew. Governments have had all the necessary grounds to prevent the shortage of nurses when large years of postwar years need to be nursed. Still, they have drawn their feet. As a result, the lack of nurses has become a permanent problem, not a temporary situation. At the same time, as mentioned earlier, nursing care has become difficult, and many rural communities are now considering reporting the nursing business because of the small amount of donations they make for their business. At the same time that the state refuses to increase the budget of nursing homes, there are increased demands for the business of those who, undeniably, lead to higher cost of operating. Then the nation's life span increases with the average age of nursing homes being increasing, as well as the need for service. A group of people feel that it is necessary to take immediate action to solve the problem. Our proposal is made so that the government is commissioned to put a frame around the length of time for those who need to stay in a nursing home. Such a law would put increased pressure on a future government to fulfill its word.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-20.u12	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in child protection law on the basis of clearance in terms of granting repairs when it comes to dating is illusions or restricted. A similar bill was presented for a 146th legislature but was not granted it. Then it was submitted again to a 149th and 150th legislature by the changes listed in the report with the bill. I'm not going to give a very long talk on this subject. It's been reviewed before. However, I would like to remind you that both in the law and in the United Nations Children's Convention, a child's right to both parents and the parental responsibilities on that subject are under high priority. However, despite clearly highlighting these rights of the child's law, there have been no clear legal means of complying with this, i.e. someone gets away with this right without having to have some kind of responsibility or penalties because of it. Somehow, it has been so strange in the treatment of this case before the council that those who may have spoken of the importance of child rights, held many talks on rights of children, about violence against children, but so when it comes to this kind of violence, to deprive a parent's child, to associate with his parent, which, of course, is with the most serious possible advice on a child, it can have serious consequences, all of a sudden, a silence in the room, an incredible silence. The few who may have spoken against this bill admit that it is a measure of violence, but this case has been more and less concerned with some form of sex rights or women's rights or violence against women, etc. That's not what it's about. This is about the child's unambiguous rights and the importance of getting along with both parents. So I would like to challenge the council to handle this matter clearly and that it is here to be done. If it doesn't happen right now at this council, I will continue this case as long as I'm at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-20.u13	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for the synopsis proposal for the development of economic incentives to promote the growth of energy plants in Iceland. In this matter, the whole body of Congress stands for the House of forwards. I hereby make a recommendation on the case of the first messenger, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. I'm gonna grab a little bit of this report. This arrangement has already been made, at the 150th legislature, and is being reassigned largely unchanged. It suggests that transport and rural Ministers will be assigned to appoint groups of work to shape and implement an economic incentive to support the basis for the production of eutrophication of eutrophication of fish and mines used in the production of benzos which can be used instead of fossil fuels. In 2008, experiments began to produce domestic environmental energy supply through the Sports Institute of Iceland. As a result, in 2013, when a Navigator's organization entered a Grouping Office, this project was continued in that field and has been since then. The research project was quick to focus on the growth of energy plants, and the work of the plants was being done and subjugated. In particular, the reason for these species was that they were cultivated for energy and other crops in the northly regions of the country, and it was important to see if they could have been used in a country where environmental energy sources are sought and applied wherever possible. It is fun to tell you that your efforts are promising. In many countries there is good progress in farming and farming, and there seems to be no basis for using the products in the same way as in other areas where these plants are cultivated for use. Because of the production of oils and fertilities, a new field of agriculture is in this country, it is essential to support the development of these sectors while achieving the development and strength of self - control. This proposal was proposed at the 150th legislature on the Environment and Transport Committee. It received general support from the authorities who sent in reviews about the case, with the exception of the marine organisations, with reference to the fact that their use of fossil fuels for use is unnecessary to take special action for fishing. It was noted that it was also important to consider which country is used for such farming in terms of biological diversity, to ensure that culture is in all places environmentally friendly, as well as to take into consideration the economic and competitive basis for other potential sources of energy, such as hydrogen, methadone, etc., can develop in a number of ways, and the importance of looking for other costs. Three main products: oil, food flour, and poles. Oil is about 15% of the mass of life, the meal flour is about 35%, and the stems are about 50%. The rods are used to carry farm animals, as well as eco-friendly and organic manure on farms and fields. The food flour is very high in protein and is thus ideal for egg and cattle and pigs and fish fish. Oil can be used as fuel for machines that burn diesel and also for cooking. The oil can be used on a larger diesel machine without changing it but should not be used on smaller diesel engines the oil heaters that heats the salt oil into 50 to 70°C before entering the engine's fuel system. Bolus is easy to use as an incorporation agent in mineral oil and is often done in proportions from 5 to25%. In that case, the oil will be used mainly as energy source first. It then discusses the land need for energy crops to grow. At present, a fishing fleet uses some 1 60,000 tons of mineral oil every year and is totally dependent on that energy source. Icelandic research has therefore been designed to determine whether and where the needs of the fishing fleet could be met by new and environmental energy sources within the country. Efforts have shown that each haphazard country produces about one ton of ointment. Thus, to meet the current use of the fishing fleet on diesel oil, energy plants would have to grow in some 1 60,000 acres [150,000 ha] of the country, or some 1,600 square miles [600 sq km]. In contrast, each year about 4,000 tons of mineral oil are being used by road transport. The same amount of plant oil could be produced in 4,000 acres or 40 square miles [40 sq km]. For example, the Repay does not count as a requirement for farming and, for example, thrives in the transmitter and on the low ground. It could therefore be used well as part of a country's construction process, especially sand, by sowing lice in the sand and plowing them down before they have formed seeds. The lulodipine residues contain nitrogen, phosphorus, and other nutrients used by the plant, and in this way it can be converted to an ideal supply land for energy plants. However, the choice of farm animals requires a comprehensive view of environmental effects, including in the context of economic incentives for such growth. And then I'm just going to step on the benefits of growing up. Oil produced from grass grown here in the country is a national source of energy. Such production would therefore promote the energy security of Iceland, where the land would not be as dependent on the availability and prices of mineral oil as it is today. The production of oil from quifers thus involves economic benefits, but the main concern is that the use of mineral oil has far less adverse effects on the environment than on the use of mineral oil. As plants grow, they bind about 6 tons of carbon dioxide in a single hectare land. We burn on the oil supply of one acres [3 kg] of carbon dioxide back into the atmosphere, but half of what plants put into them goes back to the soil when they are used as food for farming. Thus, the use of oil from seeds is made to bind more carbon dioxide than a fire on the oil, but this is well - known to be the opposite of the burning of mineral oil. The annual emissions of the fishing fleet on carbon dioxide accounts for about 500,000 tons. If 30% of the fuel used on the fishing vessels were oil, it would be possible to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions of commercial fishing vessels by nearly 300,000 tons or less than 60% of the current emissions. This corresponds to total carbon dioxide emissions from roadways in the capital area in 2016. Both economic and environmental reasons recommend a firm effort to grow energy for the production of environmental energy sources for employment and for individuals. This interpretation proposal is presented in order to help achieve this, and the following should be pointed to in support of the case: 1st When it comes to gratifying and nip, 6 tons of greenhouse gas in plants per hectare bind. Only half of it returns to the atmosphere when burning on the oil derived from the plant's seeds. 2. Reintegration and nudity support land healing and soil preparations for other crops. 3. Oil is not harmful to its environment, such as earth oil. 4. Reindustry and oil production from grass seeds create opportunities for innovation in agriculture and industry. 5. Recycling promotes the self-sustaining of Icelandic society and gives rise to Icelandic industry. V.E.G. President. As I have cross-checked and picked up a report with this fine punctuation proposal, this is a huge deal, environmental progress towards employment development, etc. I hope the council has the best way to resolve this matter quickly and effectively here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-20.u14	Madam President. I'd like to start by thanking the president for your earnestness to move into the program but, unfortunately, I was in another meeting and couldn't get close enough when the program was going so fast. I want to thank you too. Egilsdóttir I'd like to express my appreciation for your pain in the program. I hereby recommend a synopsis of the holiday home for the disability services of a donor. I'm just going to read the proposal itself, but she says, The General concluded to hide a social and child - care minister from making an assessment of the cost of installing holiday houses for micro-energy pensioners in local parts of Iceland. The labor movement is especially looked to as a model. They will work together with the NGOs of the disabled people, farm members and the labour market members. The need, the scope, the cost, and the possible means of financing will be evaluated. The secretary would like to introduce the results of this report to the General no later than May 1, 2021. I made this suggestion to the last legislature, but it did not get decomposed, but I found some positive suggestions on how to handle it. So I put it back in motion, but there has been an increase in the number of importers, and they are from a much greater number of categories, now virtually all groups of members of the General Assembly. I have importers with me. The members of Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir Gnarsdóttir, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Oddný S. Harðardóttir, Ólafur Ísleifsson, Brjánsson Friðkur, Guðjórnsson, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, and Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. In the 1940's, the terms of the holiday of paymen were passed in the collective agreements of several unions, followed by such regulations. Even then, a few unions had already attacked holiday buildings for their members, but the structure was slow, especially if the norological models are seen from the same time. In the days of the left, Hermann Jónasson the son of Jonah, of the early 1950's, came a specific way into the holiday complex by directly contributions to the labor movement's Orlofs Department and promises of land to build them up. The result was a handsome summer house built in Elfus, which was used in 1964. Since then, labor movement has ridden orbs throughout the country as much as it has given its members a fine opportunity to enjoy a rest in their leisure time in a wholesome environment. I think we all know quite well the great system of holiday building that much of the country has access to their unions. However, micro-terrestrial and micro-energy pensioners who are not active at a labour market and are therefore not in a trade union do not have access to this system. I believe, though, that all of us must agree that they are as important as others to get away from home. Therefore, it is important to establish a system that also includes their needs in the design of a facility specifically designed for microenergy pensioners, and to be especially access to the houses, to which it differs in how it is in the general system. It is equally important that bioavailability is generally linked to workforce participation and the nature of the situation as determined by those in the social security system will be less likely to be found in the labour market than others. At the same time, many people in commercial groups of society are more difficult than others to allow themselves to be rented on the free market. Though there are houses on the free market, while many tourists were available, such homes were limited and very high. Although the situation may be different in those words, it is very likely that there will be no big change in the future. This proposal is very modest, for it is actually merely to conclude on hiding a minister to make an assessment of the costs that could be involved in installing orehouses for micro-energy donors at high prices and with good access. So here it can be said that these matters are being handled with caution but are making a very important step to advance. So I'm going to allow myself to be optimistic, hoping that things will turn out fine. At the end of this discussion, the welfare committee, who gets the matter to themselves and dissuades it so that we can settle it at the council Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-20.u15	Madam President. As noted by the President, this proposal to limit investments in fossil fuels generation and to reimburse the 150th legislation Council. This proposal is reassigned with several adjustments, so it is now being done on a wide range of subjects. The proposal is to appoint a team of workers, together with the Environment and Resource Ministers, and the Directorate-Environment, making recommendations for Icelandic financial systems to become the leader of a green investment and development aimed at fossil fuels-free society, i.e. Iceland's financial systems become part of a solution to climate problems. It's so simple. The suggestions take the least to the public investment policy and to the pension fund, to say that in this country all of us are involved in combating climate change. In addition, this team is suggested to provide proposals for the implementation of government investments and pension funds in companies that are related to the implementation of fossil fuels and to set up a time-to-day programme to remove directly and indirectly the possession of the former organisations in such companies, if available. This is not just for the sake of climates but for those who are expected to reap from these investments, funds, and the public because the funds that today are bound in the production of fossil fuels will disappear in the coming years. In fact, it is just a reduction to draw money out of such investments quickly. This is a suggestion that may be one of the quickest ways to achieve success in climate within the financial cost of the economy we live in. Let us always remember, though, that making money is not just part of the problem but the basis for the problem of climate change. The reaction to this suggestion is quite long and is outlined in the report. This began with the one present asking the then financial minister if he felt that he would change the rules of investment policy of pensions, which are set down today. that pension funds set out moral standards, whether it is a reason for extending this requirement so that it would be clear that the financial investment policy should serve climate targets and goals for sustainability. The minister explained that the moral standards for this were likely to be handled, but it would likely be beneficial for those who wanted to look at each pension fund. So I followed it up with a question to the same minister and asked how much of the pension fund was tied up in a business that is one way or another involved in the processing and sale of fossil fuels. Then it became clear that a minister could not answer. Despite his verbal response here in the Senate Hall, he felt that this information was all in evidence that they just didn't. In fact, more have tried to call for these data, the Democratic Society Alda, the National Protection, and the United States. has been asking a pension fund and a larger investment company whether they have one or another involvement in companies that produce fossil fuels. The answers there suggest that for some of the largest, foreign investments, often through the stocks, can be indirectly produced by fossil fuels. There's no small interest in it. The belongings of the Icelandic pension fund reached 5,500 billion by the end of August. Among these were foreign property of 1,851 billion. There are a lot of interests in the way these funds are spent. However, I would like to mention this green transition in the financial system that is essential to their starting. They've started in the countries around us, in the European Union and in the business world of themselves. I found it interesting to attend a business council at the beginning of this year, under the heading On green light, which covered investments and progress without a footprint, as it were. There was a lot of business people who know exactly what time it is because they work with consumers who call for ambitious visions on climate issues and because they are recruiting employees who want to work for companies who serve the future that we want to see. In some ways, the group of people is beyond the Icelandic government group today, who do not seem to realize that the world is passing over the Icelandic government when it comes to moving investments from gray to green. It is also very close to looking east to Brussels, where the European Union now adopted in the spring classification of environmentally sustainable investments as part of a green Community Convention, or the ◯Green New DealHow, as it is in English. This is a system that will cover all larger European enterprises and take effect over the years 2022-2023 and will undoubtedly have a major impact here in Iceland, either directly through the EEA Convention or indirectly through the fact that, about every company in Iceland is having some dealings with Europe's business life. The European Union's classification principle will address a problem that is very important to attack, which is to answer the question, What is a green investment? It is a question that might be raised in the group under this heading to set up a price. As the situation is today, it is all too easy for an enterprise, or anyone, to decorate with green feathers without having it deserved. You can get some standard green stamp on whatever you are doing and then drum up that person is on the front team when it comes to the fight on the climate. We also know this about the discussion of whether the government's climate goals are ambitious or not. It is difficult to appreciate it when an independent person has a standard method of valuing it, and we need to believe the evangelism of those who have the best interests of going out. Here, the government is making so much use because a common, joint understanding of what green investments are, of course, something that the state can make, of course, in cooperation with those who are going to have, but the state can make sure that all parties on the market have the same conditions, that they can actually walk that investment, which is green in Iceland is really green. I listed here the classification rules of the European Union, which I expect to guide, whether it will be through the motion I propose, or some year later, when people will wake up at the Board of Government and do the same. The European Union suggests three main classes: first, human climate change activities; second, activity that softens the negative impact; third, water and sea functions; fourth, the cycle economy, the fifth layer of pollution prevention and sixth measures that recover and protect biodiversity. These are very large areas, and you're sure you have a very technical solution. Rather, it is important that a common vision be ensured by government leadership for work. To get rid of investments in the production and processing of fossil fuels is merely a demeaning project for investors. It is also about reducing the demand for environmentally harmful investments. It is a moral project for investors to fulfill. The other two aspects of this suggestion may be on the forward side. It is a fun opportunity for an Icelandic career to be present early with real green investments. We know that the world around us, especially in Europe, is literally setting a policy for investments to meet environmental goals. All over the world, there is a call for green investments. Here in Iceland, it can be provided for, but Iceland, if we believe we don't have to meet international standards or to be able to prove that we do, we can just say that we are green, but we can't really follow it, if we believe that we don't have to meet international standards. Madam President. That is why it is so important to do the work suggested in this suggestion that the financial system should do what we want it to do for climate matters and also be able to do all the opportunities that are involved in doing the good work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-20.u16	Madam President. I bring here a bill to legalize the foreign law, No. 80/2016, with subsequent changes in age analysis. Age is part of an individual's identity, and when assessing the need and the right of the applicant to provide international protection for a certain type of service, it is important to know whether you are a child or an adult. Children have the right to support and help in harmony with their status as children. In this country, physical examination is intended for age analysis based on dental development. Four different methods are used and given the mean age as well as the standard deviation. In other parts of the North countries, age is also diagnosed from tooth development, which is also used to identify bone development. In addition, Dans alone report age from puberty, a highly critical method. In many places, dating based on physical research has been criticized because of both moral and scientific inaccuracies. It has then been recommended by the European Council, the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers, but their main theme is that when there is a question about whether candidates applying for international protection are children, they should always be evaluated as children and not as adults, and that a comprehensive assessment should be made to try to find their age, not tooth analysis, which is considered a highly reliable method of measuring children's age. New European Council recommendations on the implementation of age analyses have recently been published and presented in Member States, including Iceland. The European Parliament on the implementation of a number of refugees and the new European Council recommendation on the implementation of dates was proposed to take the initiative of the country's 29 March 2018. Among prominent men, Tomás Bocek, a special representative of the European Council, was in the affairs of refugees. At the seminar, there was also a difference. Discuss that bill as a song for the adjustment of the alien law submitted to in 149, but is being remanded here, and declared to Tomás Bocek his support for the changes presented in this bill here. The Council of the Council of Europe, No. 2295 from 27 June 2019, its first conclusion on child - rearing dating of unwanted children, as well as for a complete evaluation. In the conclusion, the Council of Europe, including the Council, says: that the council reiterate their former position, i.e. An example of burdensome dating can have a major impact on children's physical, emotional, and psychological development. At the same time, the Council welcomes the Parliament's campaign to shape a broadly relevant method of dating. In that campaign, the person being present has participated in an active process. To achieve the above objective, you are presented here to change the 113rd paragraph. law on foreigners that dates should be made in a comprehensive assessment and always in accordance with the legislation that ensures child rights. A moving provider, the one listed here, emphasizes that the process of dating is clear and beneficial and that the person taking care of the child's interests is present at the ages. Information to the child should be provided in a prenatal manner so that the child can separate them from the child's interests. It is then important that the evaluation is objective and impartial and cooperate with qualified specialists. What, though, does it mean to have a complete meal? Yes, the overall assessment should continue to take into account the circumstances, the case, and the available data and information, but it should also be used to identify the age of candidates, professional assessments, or the occurrence of experts in child affairs, such as psychologists or social experts. Physical tests cannot be used to determine age, such as an examination of the development of the hands, kneecaps or teeth, unless there is substantial doubt about the age of a foreigner, despite the use of other resources for the entire evaluation. In other words, if the pooled evaluation cannot be carried out, to form due to the lack of available data and information or documents, and this is a trial, physical examination should be the last administration by the government and should only be carried out by qualified specialists in front of witnesses and in the presence of informed consent of the child and/or of the child's interests. A physical examination should then be carried out by dentists, or by medical personnel designated by the government, and physical examination should also be carried out in the presence of a specialist in the field of psychology of children and adolescents or in case of social consultation. The best interests of the child should always be taken into account when assessing whether to undergo a physical examination. In addition, this bill on changes in foreigners is specified, not only to use the observation of genital development as a way of determining age. How vital that we keep this law clear in these adjustments! Of course, it should be clearly stated in the current laws of foreigners. Then I would like to mention that when making a decision to have a foreigner go through a complete ages, it is important that the individual be directed in a clear and meaningful way and that he is informed of the reasons why he or she undergos such an evaluation. In view of an important fair influence in determining the age of protection for candidates, however, many of us would like to believe people and not have to have this precise practice to determine the duration of the candidates for international protection rather than to assume that the person who was telling the truth, who was now the best in a perfect world, this is a bill for these decisions to be determined by the interests of young ones. But as we know them, whether they are older or under 18 years of age is a powerful influence when a decision is made. However, with the conclusion made, it is extremely important that the decision of the Foreign Institute for Foreign Affairs to determine whether or not they are older than 18 years old, and it is also suggested that these charges be held at a court date. Sadly, this part of the change of the bill does not exist in the current law. Mr. President. I'd like to mention just a review of the case at the end of the 150th legislation - it was also submitted to a 149th legislation - and received the legitimate statements of human rights organizations that were taken into account in terms of the renewal of the case. I'd like to address only the comments of the Red Cross in Iceland since October 18, 2019, but the Red Cross has long made serious comments in the dating of the Foreign Institute. Commenting on this, the Red Cross comments were made at the Foreign Institute, the Exhibit Committee of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Children's Agent, the Children's Children's Children's Institute for Children's Children's Children's Children's Child Welfare, and the media, however, there were no changes in the law on foreigners relating to this role, i.e. A dating. The Red Cross, according to its review, repeatedly suggested reforms with reference to international reports of dating on unsupervised children. It is heartwarming to see that such a highly respected and large human rights organization such as the Red Cross is agreeing with what is being said here, the sender of the bill, that the methods applied in the country used to identify the age of candidates for international protection do not meet the criteria for foreigners in which it is stated that, at the time of age, an overall assessment of the individual situation and his life story should be made, but in addition to a physical examination. In other words, there are regulations in the law that have not been applied but, rather, have been used more quickly, rather by physical examination. At that time, the Red Cross has criticized that no one involved in the evaluation has knowledge of child mental or physical development, as well as that there is great uncertainty in dental analysis and that there is a serious risk of the wrong diagnosis in children 16 years of age and older. The Red Cross states that individuals were diagnosed at over 18 years of age in a dental diagnosis in Iceland, but later it was found that the identity of the prominent men and women was unfading and considered under 18 years of age. The Red Cross points out that this shows conclusively that the results of dental analysis should not be overemphasized, since they are by no means accurate. Even so, the authorities have placed too much emphasis on the results of dental analysis in these cases, but this, of course, reduces the rights of these children. The Red Cross presents an example from its 18th October 2019, which I encourage all interested ones to read on the Generals web, about a person whose age was incorrect, and therefore became very much the result of the person's life. Since I was here referring to the Council of Europe, but I am at the European Parliament's refugee committee and am its vice president, I would like to remind you that the Council of Europe published a report, in September 2017, on the issue of dating and on what is a complete assessment. It says that for food to be complete, it must include the approach of cross-cutting experts and techniques. Assessment should be based on physical, psychological, developmental, sociology and environmental factors. It is important that the food be presented to pediatrics and child psychologists. Then the experts involved in the evaluation should keep in mind the different growth rate of individuals and consider their personal history. And, as the Red Cross points out, it is important for the Icelandic government to develop a comparable assessment of age in cooperation with experts and children's houses. But as we all know, Iceland has this incredible experience that other nations have been recording, which is the Children's House and the so - called Babyhouse model used, when it comes to investigating both the charges of sexual violence against children and is also using it in many European countries, which have adopted this Children's Moel, to help the homeless children escape who, as we know, who have watched so much about these matters, are one of the most vulnerable groups that flee from their own country and are in grave danger of abuse and abuse and violence, and who are at great risk of falling in the hands of manpower, crime, and crime groups that have become a source of crime. We in Iceland have this babyhouse model, and it's a huge fortune. We need to develop it in order to take advantage of it in the affairs of the homeless children and children of fleeing because we have had experience that children of this group have suffered tremendous traumas during childhood and have many of the experiences that none of us would ever want to experience. So we have the opportunity, tools and experience to develop this whole evaluation. Then I'd also like to mention that in a leaflet with the direction of the Red Cross, the excellent review - and I'd like to thank the staff of the Red Cross for this fine statement, for it adds much to and was looked upon at at the contribution of the case today - a report on the inaccuracies of X - ray examinations, which is extremely well designed and of great benefit to interested persons. I'd also like to thank UNICEF and the children who agree with this bill and talk out of the rights of children. I'd also like to celebrate and thank you for the struggle of Iceland's High School of Students, who published a resolution on September 27, 2018, due to the arrival of Iceland's University of College in dating on the non-sponsored Searchers here, which had been conducted within the walls of Iceland's University by special contract in Iceland's High School of Iceland's National Institute. The Board of Students declared its opposition to Iceland's University coming to these studies and actively opposed them. That fight drew attention and moved on. It was good to feel the support of students in this enormously important matter, and to feel that students stand by their trustees, standing with the children and teenagers who are on the run, and carrying on the humanitarian treatment of young people in flight, thus drawing tremendous attention. Similarly, I would like to point to the UNICEF Children's Fund of the United Nations, U.S.A., regarding the bill that appeared on October 18, 2019. It calls attention to the consequences of dating, and it does, in view of the fact that UNICEF in Iceland had a lot of work to do interviewing children who had come here, both children and children with custody, and the results of dating. According to UNICEF interviews in Iceland, the views of children who shed new light on the effects of dating were presented by children. I pick up what appeared in the review of the United Nations Children's Fund in Iceland: On the one hand, not all children experienced full - time service in line with age and development until early age analysis, despite the fact that national and international treaties and contracts in Iceland should always be enjoyed by a child. However, an analysis that evaluated a child over 18 years of age led to a much worse position in support and equipment of daily life. The report also suggests that the results of physical tests led to a child's falsely being told over 18 years old, that the identification of children who did not accept their age was religious, and that governments were again made by dating because of their inaccuracies, all with serious consequences for the lives and health of the children involved. So it is very good to receive these strong and powerful reviews of these good and respected human relations with the bill I recommend here, about the change in foreign law, No. 80/2016, with respect to paediatric age analysis. The foreigners'law has often been discussed in the Assembly Hall and is referred to as a work that is designed to review whether these laws need to be changed. I believe it is long time for the committee to produce some kind of proposal for change and especially for the benefit of young people and their rights to be fully guaranteed. Mr. President. This bill here is an effort to ensure an even greater degree and to establish child rights, whether they are escorted or coming here to see a family member, or are in search of international protection, or whatever it is. I encourage Congress to accept this change, this bill of changing the law of foreigners. I wish for a global and educational committee, to whom this bill is expected to go, all the best, and I hope that the Committee will be a success in accepting this change, children and adolescents for their good.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-13-20.u17	Mr. President. The transporters of this bill are why. Councilmen of the United States of America, all of them members of the Parliament. The bill is now delivered for the fourth time, and it was last proposed to the Council of 150th. The first official of the case was the one standing here, but Valgerður Bjarnadóttir, former U.S. Congress member, was the first official of the matter at the Council of 145, when the case was first established. The bill suggests that a national interest agency will be established to monitor the country's rivers and supply, to pursue economic research and to be a government and the General for the Ministry of Economic Affairs. In view of the current economic situation, it is urgent for the General to have access to the objective analysis of members associated with the Council to assess economic and social measures. In discussing the case at the 146th Court of Justice, the Commission received two reviews on the matter. The second review emphasized the importance of public representatives as well as voters having access to solid information on economic prospects and a high priority on economic views and expertise in public policy and should take into account expertise from other scientific sources. Or, according to the bill between institutions and recruitment programs, there would be uncertainty about the collection of information, reporting, and the implementation of projections. Some special knowledge would be available through councils and organizations that were not present at the General Assembly and it would be important to ensure that both members of the Parliament and the voters would have access to reliable information on success and implementation of law and outlook. It was also thought that the independence of the National Organization was not sufficiently secure by the bill and that the director would be employed by a different route that ensured the independence of such an institution than that he was hired by the Council of the Council. The change has been made from previous contributions that the director of the Agency is elected by the General Assembly and is in accordance with the legislation on other council surveillance agencies and the votes for the members of the Council and the head of the State accountants. Since this is a new agency of surveillance, it is important that a trusted and trusted state be established between the Council and the director of the Agency. It is reasonable, then, that the council would have been at his disposal, but this would not be solely on the hands of the presiding committee but on the whole. The second report described the importance of increasing the number of national interest models used, especially in public finance and their impact on economic development. The diagnostic abilities of public citizens on the economy would also need to be strengthened by the results of individual events and actions. There were some possibilities for this. In 1974●2002, an established National Organization, which was heard under prime minister and was to monitor the country's rivers and supply, was preparing for economic research and being a government and the General for the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The decision made by the prospective prime minister to put down the National Organization has always been very controversial. This bill suggests that this institution will be established again in 2021. On September 28, 2010, the General agreed to the conference's reaction to a report by the Allied Commission. It lists 12 things that need to be revised or prepared by law. The 11th part of this list is silent, with the permission of the president: It will be an independent government agency that will monitor national economic development and as national economic forecast. A U.S. Senate report on the report of the World Commission of September 2010 stated in section 2.1 that the Committee for Congress suggests that such an institution is a member of the Council and is designed to evaluate and publish predictions for the economy in the same way that the National Organization for July 1, 2002. The first volume of the 2008 study committee's report on the conduct and cause of the fall of Icelandic banks states in chapter 4 on economic and national economic policies, section 4.8, The Conclusions of the Council of the Research Committee: It is essential to increase the cooperation of the state of finance and the Federal Bank on Economic Operations so that one policy is not directed firmly against the other, as it was during the past few years, when government issues were constantly aimed at increasing the imbalance and the overpowering process and leaving the Huns Bank alone to cope with the consequences. In order to create an objective basis for economic coordination, an independent public agency could hide the role of predicting the economic situation and evaluating the economic situation and likely the development of different economic policies. It is important in such cooperation to respect the independence of the Federal Bank for decision-making and the application of its controllers, but there is a lack that ministers have taken sufficient consideration for the Council Bank's policies. It is long time for the General Assembly to respond to the report of the General Commission and the Senate report that discussed it and restore national interests. After all, Mr. President, this proposal was adopted by all the votes in this hall in 2010. When a national interest agency was put down, their assignments, including theirs, were specific. The implementation of national interest accounts and the implementation of national and national programmes, is being transferred to The Haust Office of Iceland. If this bill is to be legalized, the National Haguembourn Act has to be adjusted accordingly so that the two institutions could not function. No. Is It Designed? No. 123/2015, was set up for financial advice. Comments with the bill say, on permission of the president: It is important to ensure that the level of objective assessment is as important as possible on the basis of government financial policies. Hence, the change is suggested that financial advisers determine whether financial and financial policies are in line with baseline values listed at 2 mg. Section 6. the bill and the financial rule at the same time. 7. The bill. At the same time, the bill assumes that financial legislation will determine whether financial planning and implementation are in accordance with financial policy. To ensure public transparency and access to the results of the Council, it should be published publicly. The active management of public funds depends on the general availability, availability, implementation, and impact of financial policies. To be effective in the management of government funds, coordination and coordination of these factors are required. The role of a financial body is to determine whether it is logical and to meet the requirements of baseline and financial order, and financial policies. Economic Council is primarily a professional guide that employs the most widely accepted methodology for economic analysis and logical support for its opinions. The Council should promote transparency in a discussion of public financial development. Regardless of the opinion of a financial body, it is fundamental in this context. A financial body is three men's advice. To do this, it is necessary to obtain information and analysis from an institution that is independent of the government. This bill suggests that the National Institute for Information and Development for Budget Council. Its objective is thus better maintained than if the government handles it, as expected under Article 13. it's a government law. Comments on public financial matters are made by the president's permission: It is essential that financial advisers have access to data available from Iceland's Habitat, Iceland's Secret Bank and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs that meets the criteria of the strategy for evaluating. Clearly, the Ministry of Economics has political powers and is therefore not at any given time disproportionate to governments. By establishing an independent agency that was heard under the General Assembly to discuss economic issues, there would be no doubt about the political impact on the basis of a financial body based on its work. It is customary to have financial resources in the countries around us, but they serve various roles. In comment on public financial matters, the following is shown by the permission of a president: In some countries, the costs for political policies and legislation, but elsewhere, as in Sweden, their role is limited to recognition on terms of financial planning and financial billing. So it could be the role of the National Institute of Economic Affairs to consider political policies, end up with one of its roles under the bill, to provide members of the Parliament with information on economic issues, and it could refer to the costs of their policies or markets. The Community Committee on Economic Affairs and Social Affairs is operating on the basis of a treaties between state and rural society. The Committee is assigned to provide information on the state of the economy and development of financial and rural organizations and to provide annual financial reporting, financial and rural development, discretion and other preparations for consultations with the secretary and minister of the local government. The Committee shall then, if requested, provide information on the recommendations for changes in financial relations between countries and rural society and/or municipal income populations. It is natural that this work will be shifted to an independent agency involved in economic affairs. It is true that the environment has changed from that of a national economy. The labour market partners, whether salary or employment drivers, are responsible for the analysis of economic issues, but there are also intensive diagnostics within the banks and other institutions, such as management agencies, which are concerned with the diagnosis of economic outlooks. All of these are some kind of stakeholders and irresponsible to ignore the possibility that these analyses could be colored by the interests of these enterprises, institutions, or organizations. Therefore, it is urgent that the country is an organization that can be trusted with any certainty that it is guided, not by certain social interests, but by national interests. Mr. President. This was from a bill paper, but I'd like to quote an article that Gylfi Zoëga wrote in a clue during the days and that is exactly what it takes to put on such an organization of national interest. Gylfi says, with president's permission: ▪ Most government decisions have economic consequences that are not always obvious. Economics and their interpretations are important. It is important for government decisions, public discussion, and democracy. It is important that decisions be made objectively. There are countless examples. How does the country's income trade compare with the neighboring countries? How has the business change developed over the last few years? Is the exchange of property inferior to the exchange of income? What is the effect of the tax system on income distribution and possessions? What are the effects of a tax and reform system on a workforce? Are more tourists being allowed into the country at the time of epidemic disease? How do older citizens living here compare with neighboring countries? If tax is on the market, who pays the tax, the buyer, or the seller? What is the effect of changing taxes and local spending on national production and employment? In the last two decades, no one has been revealed, regardless of any person trying to answer such questions. The decisions made by the Generals and by the government have largely been taken into an economic vacuum. The late bank is independent and independent, making its careful analysis which provides the basis for decision-making, but does not serve the General and the Government. This economic vacuum has been filled by stakeholders. The consequences have sometimes been bad. There is, however, no way to know what would have happened if such a neutral person had ever existed. Perhaps he would have slept on guard, been controlled by an individual with an unpleasant political connection, etc. but perhaps such an institution would have been successful in filling into the vacuum by objective analysis and counseling. In 2002, the National Economic Organization, established in 1974, took them into the work of the government's agency. The Agency heard as prime minister and was to monitor the survival of the nation's population, be a government and any general for economic support, research in economics, national economic forecasts, etc. The financial support that was previously given to the National Institute of Economic Organization was divided between the Organization, the ASSI and the National Institute for Economics at the University of Iceland. The latter received a yearly allowance for several years that needed to be applied each year and then fell in 2008. It was the difference between the National Economic Institute and the Organization that the Agency collects data and gathers economics but is not intended to interpret them. None of these parties could play the role of a national economy when it came to objective analysis and being a member of the General Assembly. In an article published in the 2002 morning, Katrín Ólafsdóttir, an economist of National Institutes, wrote that after the Agency was laid down, there would no longer be an independent agency that discussed economic issues. Mr. President. I've finished my quote in Dr. Gylfi Zoëgi's lead, but I encourage all of the councilmen to read it. It is informative and shows why we need to follow this bill and set up a national interest agency under the General Assembly. So it must be clear to all members of the general and national council how much money is thus at this time of our 100th year's deepest crisis to have such an institution to identify the economic effects of the government's action and interaction and influence on individual groups and the public. There is no place, Mr. President, but would have been there if the bill had been approved here at the 145th legislature, where the first member of the United States council was then a member of Congress, Valgerður Bjarnadóttir. Mr. President. I suggest that at the end of this discussion, the bill be referred to the management and monitoring committee.
