ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u1	As the U.S. Senate knows, the State Marshal's office has declared an emergency phase of public defence in consultation with a pathologist and the surgeon's office for the Covid-19 disease. The General Assembly plan has been implemented, and various measures have been made accordingly. Aim to minimise the risk of transmission and to maintain functioning of the General Assembly. Today's prime committee meeting was specifically discussed with members of the council at committee meetings. According to Article 1, the Council is expected to attend a meeting of committees. 17th par., and the same rules as those of the council members, as is 65. gr. Has it been understood that if a member of the committee is present, he will be there. Of the duties of the committee and the 22nd chapter. According to Article 22, a meeting is considered to be just a conclusion that a greater proportion of members of the committee are present at the meeting. Congress. While telecommunications and telephone meetings have been used in the work of members of the Committee in the absence of members of the Committee, a member of the Committee may not be involved in a vote on matters, rights, or other decisions made by the same committee. Hence, the president suggests that temporary variation will be granted from the council, as is now permitted according to the 95th grade. A contingency to deviate from 1st. 17th par. the obligation of members of the Committee to attend a meeting and also from the 22nd chapter. to the Commission's decision-making board, although it is possible for members of Parliament to use telecommunications and telephone meets in payment, planning, or other decisions at the meetings of members of the Parliament. By such extremes, it would be necessary for the members of the committee to be at the meeting in order to form a proposed committee meeting. Will the president suggest that these variations be granted, and new as necessary, at the time of the Council's recession at Easter. In this way it is endeavored to create members of the committees in the present situation. The President will provide further guidance for the chairman of the fixed committees on the implementation of the species. The president would also like to inform in this context that the Parliamentary Committee, now reviewing the laws of the General Assembly, may, after an incident, be able to further expand regulations in the council, which would then be available under such circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u2	President. That's a very good suggestion. This means that those who are unable to attend a meeting now, in this case because of the crown virus because we want to restrict it or slow it down, however, can still take place at the General Assembly. That's good. It's done for a while, and it's great. I just hope that experience will show us that this should be a natural factor, that if the members of the committee cannot attend a committee meeting that they have to attend in many cases in order to perform their legal role professionally, conduct the job professionally, legislation and Congress proposals at the council, we use this technology of the 21st century to do our professional work at a council despite our inability to attend. This needs to be natural, and the principle should be that if the regional ultimatum is, for example, members of the districts. Weather plan, or if a senator has to care for a sick child at home or for any other good objective reasons, this technology is new.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u3	V.E.G. President. Since we're now giving a vote on the proposal of cluster policy development, I'd like to thank you very much. The employment board for good work on this case, as well as thanking the wide support the case has received, and a number of transporters testify, while the matter of the support of members of the Parliament of all councils at the General Assembly. Then careful comments have been made, now and in the past, increasing their weight and support as time has passed, and more is being discussed at the council. I'm the highest. Minister and staff, like what? The job committee is so impressed by its committee's view of our neighboring nations, who tell a good story of such a course. The key point, though, is that it eventually results in a cluster policy that is more concerned with the many powerful, self - induced classes that produce new jobs, new jobs, and new companies, thus meeting future challenges and promoting competitiveness.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u4	Mr. President. The World Health Organization identified yesterday the spread of Covid-19 as a pandemic. The Agency is concerned about the fast spread of the virus and also concerns about the inactivity of many countries. She also declared that it is not too late to react and to reduce the damage. In the beginning of this discussion, I would like to say that the Icelandic government was well prepared for this epidemic. It is most important to the health authorities to control the spread of the virus, to protect people in a weak position, thus minimising the pressures on the health system. I'd like to thank all the people who have been up for the past few weeks in public defenses, surgeon generals' office, D.A.C., and all health care professionals and the public defences for their reactions, procedures and information that I think we can all agree that we have been exemplary and have been able to reduce further infection in this country to this point. It is also important to say here that I have been delighted to see how serious this situation has been to the public in general and to follow the direction and recommendations made by governments. It matters how we do things, and in a democratic community like us, information is key. There, these parties have certainly been on the watch for other challenges. This is normal now when economic pressures are high and people wonder how the epidemic will develop, as well as how it will affect the economy. Governments will not hesitate to use all the resources available, whether in economic or in health, to face the consequences to ensure the safety and well - being of the entire population, because this is all about it. In this regard, it is important that we be specific in our actions but also that we do our best to communicate information. I would also like to thank you here at the beginning of this discussion by the presidents of the classes for a fine meeting earlier. Tomorrow, governments will have a meeting with the labour market to review the actions needed to attack so that these temporary conditions will not be permanent for families and homes in the country. The U.S. president's decision yesterday regarding a travel ban from a number of European countries, including Iceland, is a shock that will have a major impact on the economy beyond what was previously expected. The United States government has already spoken up against this decision, and the U.S. government has made its protests clear to the U.S. government. It is so, Mr. President, that the Covid-19 epidemic is a health threat to the public and a threat to the economy. Although temporary conditions are involved, the exact and long effects of the pandemic are uncertain. Already the spread of the virus in China has been greatly slowed by the first outbreak. While there is positive news, it is clear that during the last days, there has been a dramatic increase in the number of international and analysing agencies and analysts being warned of their predictions and despite the actions of various countries and bank banks around the world to stimulate employment and reduce uncertainty. The last news of the United States'curfew during the next 30 days has already had a major impact on stock markets, the best indicators dropped nearly 9% this morning, and letters in Ikelanda by 23%. Thus, this epidemic will break all open economys in the world and Iceland, of course, is no exception to the small economy, open economy, and exposed to the external impacts of being properly equipped and the national situation is good to cope with the problem. The negative effects of this epidemic are already beginning to appear and appear. in the rapidly decreasing demand leading to economic recession and corporate management problems they will need to respond to. A reduced demand is already under way for tourism and air management, but it will become more widespread. Furthermore, it is clear that problems may be caused by failure of manufacturing resources. Government planning has been aimed at assuming the worst so that appropriate measures can be taken, which will cut off in the country and give us a resistance to the economy. The changed economic outlooks mean that the basis for the economic policy is smiling and working on its review is already under way, and financial plans will be submitted in May instead of being submitted in the coming days, and then we will assume that the necessary basis is in place. We need to look for both short-term reactions and long-term reactions to respond to the situation that is faced, on the other hand, the shock of a community in recent times, unprecedented in our time, even though we can read about a number of world epidemics in old records in a whole different community than we now have. Then we need to plan for the next year to make sure that we not only get out of these storms but also, in a short time, can begin to blow again after we are now in defense. In the coming years, the government has prepared investment campaigns, which include huge investments on the part of the State to give encouragement and resistance to the economy. I stress strongly that such investments need to be varied, and they need to be assessed from different viewpoints, on the other hand, the traditional practical activities of transportation and building, and we know that there is a great gathering need. On the other hand, we need to consider investments in technology, intelligence, knowledge, research, innovation, creative articles, which we also know are long - term and can have immediate influence. We listen to what we're hearing from outside the community, from the outside. It is important that we invest in these articles for an extended period of time in order to increase the economic foundation. The short term reactions will be many and will aim to support the individuals and companies most needed for the pandemic. It's the best and most efficient crisis, and I want to reiterate what I've previously said here that the government's actions due to the biographer contract in the past are now very useful, whether it's tax measures that will bring the public an increase in their provisional resources at just the right time, the use of social facilities that really matters to us now or other social measures that will affect us in order to cope with this crisis. On Tuesday we presented a number of activities to support the companies in the country. Even there was a number of them. discussed how we could clear the bank's deposit post, how we could support our companies by providing them with deadlines to cover the current waves, how we could contribute to the demand and private consumption, a market campaign when the window opens, and we can see that people want to travel again, and there we also referred to the investment campaign that the Council will have to do the work on and take a look at. I'd also like to mention some more measures, especially the legal bill that is coming in during the coming days and as a guarantee that pay will be paid to all those who are under siege. The legal bill is based on the government, the National Association of Iceland, the Association of Employment that was introduced last week, and is aimed at the fact that we're all going to do our part so that no one needs to worry about his survival while he's under siege. I would like to call to mind the fact that not all nations are applying the resources that we have used in part because we are in the unique position of being able to give more consideration to infection here on land than to many other countries with less entrance into the land than we live in, an island with one international airport. But this was not expected in the law, and therefore, there will be a legal bill in the days that will be expected to ensure these actions. I could still talk for a long time, but I'd like to say that specific, stable reactions are crucial in situations that we now face. Government action will focus on supporting the economy and the people of the land, and it is linked to an unbreakable bond. It is important that they become righteous, and then they become wise, and we will seek them. But let us appreciate what is happening here that an Icelandic society faces a great challenge. It is a challenge that is vital for us to meet together and help all of us to overcome it. It is the place of all of us, both governments and even members of the council. All of us need to take the lead in order to meet this challenge properly. We will do everything within our power to ensure that these disasters will be temporary and that an Icelandic society will remain stronger than ever before. We need as a community to stick together in this situation, and it is important that all of us send them out a clear message into our community. If we have a chance to do that, I'm not worried that we will succeed in doing this as well as we can. We know it's gonna be tough, but the situation's good, the infrastructure's solid. We have every opportunity to meet this challenge properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u5	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Prime Minister for his opening point in this discussion. The situation has changed, but now the most important thing is that we have a firm, specific response and are designed to bring us back in the right direction. At the moment, I think it may be safe to say that there is a greater risk of subjugation than precluding action. What a concern it is when powerful travelers experience what makes the situation more dangerous today than September 11 and the rest of that event in their day! I emphasize that we are in a place that is very disturbing to this part of the economy, which is as large as it is at home as it is at home. It is said that the situation is unprecedented, and it is very twisted, but we must also remind ourselves that we have often seen it black before. The key points to get us out of the fixed position have always been to approach matters with open eyes, seek solutions, and run them through. The current position does not work much, then, to postpone the situation. Lucky for me, the government has at least one government. partly improved today in terms of the predictable response that I declared last night that I felt that I had started very slowly in terms of government response. We look forward to a threefold need for action. First, there are measures involved in the storm that took place in December. There the government went on February 28th. depending on your response. Then it is the response to the crown virus and the powerful influence it has on the tourism. Finally, there is something that we must not forget, and it seems to me that fell between the boat and the dock in the past few days and weeks in the discussion, the general cooling economy that has been visible since the late year. They will no longer be asked much longer to make conscious decisions on the type of injection that must take place, both in the build-up and in the recovery of the public's application to the tax and the cost of employment. I'm not going to talk about bringing oxygen into my job life. I'm going to have to take it less of what is happening to a professional life than it's been lately. As for the first two episodes I mentioned, the storm in December and the crown virus, it could be said that the government has shown at the first hand, but it has also flashed up that there is a considerable match for the tone that has come from the workplace in the last few days, that it would have been a good sign that the government was going to enter. But it was very unexplored. What I mentioned earlier is, in fact, twofold now that we are facing in emergency operations. On the one hand, there are things that are less taxable and that leave more oxygen in the job world. There, in the Middle East, we have proposed that the balance fee be permanently suspended, and the government has now entered and announced that it will be done, at least may be temporarily used for initial use. I think it would be wise for us to consider moving the tourism back down to the lower value tax level where it used to be. We in the Central Party have suggested that an additional reduction in the amount of insurance paid by a whole percentage will be run through the system right now. The percentage in the insurance bill is between 15 and 20 billion, so that operation alone will be left behind, if from time to time we make sure to the end of the year, probably 10◯12 billion in a commercial situation that is not unnecessary today. We'd also like to mention that there has to be a way that a company can keep people working to a greater extent than right now. A large, powerful company will see much lay-offs in the days and weeks. For the whole system, so I'm going to allow myself to use that bad concept, it's far more important for people to stay at work so that their companies are ready to make a proper trip after they're published, but that people get seriously heavy on the unemployment list and somehow have to start at a half-point zero point of working in the system again. I believe there is a significant sacrifice to invest in the maintenance of a job in the weeks and months that follow. As an example, there is a delay in due date, so local pay is immediately on Monday. More such factors would show that the government had come to the fore and was going to face the situation. We must approach it, too, so that it is temporary. We have to look at it so that measures we take now are intended for the entire industry and its tourism to become more commercial and commercial when it is published. That's an enormous amount of value. The other I would like to mention, too, is an injection into the government's infrastructure investments. We in the Middle East have suggested that there be 150 billion committed in the next three years, which is a real injection that will be important. These signs need to be sent quickly. It does not mean, in my opinion, to send these signals to early summer or even later, there is a need to get started with a job in the exports and so on the first streets so that you can use the summer well and experience that the action brings in oxygen, both in terms of the return of the state by tax recovery and by the procedure of this direct injection. As I say, we need to make sure that the job life and then the tourism will be in a position as comfortable as possible when this viral effect is removed. At the same time, however, we must not forget other aspects of the economy. We have been exposed to hairy deficiency for two years in a row that has a significant impact on the areas in which such practices are practiced and fished. We look at the cooling of the entire economy, not just because of the crown virus or the actions of the President of the United States last night. So we must act, and in the entire discussion of support due to pay outlets for diseases caused by the crown virus, there has been little discussion about the interests and needs of single and smaller companies in general. I just want to keep it in place here that we'll look out for these groups that are nuclear groups when all is counted together in Icelandic employment. These groups need to be especially careful, although, of course, it is important to look into important companies. No one doubts that their access to government and government is much more acceptable than the monotonous, those who lose their income supply in the next few days when conditions like this occur.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u6	Mr. President. Not only do we deal with the consequences of Covid-19 in the health and economy but we also deal with downturn in the economy that the epidemic is making so much deeper. In this situation, we need to protect our welfare system, work against unemployment, support our job life, and homes in the country. We need to keep our eyes on the bigger picture and take immediate action while setting the lines for a long time. It is very important to ensure that companies continue their business and work against further unemployment as possible. It's about the job and the services of people and companies. So it is fundamentally essential that a workforce meets the needs of government decisions and consultations with rural areas. We in the United States are ready to cooperate, and we want to influence the government's decisions. We need to be careful, but at the same time be quick to think. We're not supposed to do anything. We're supposed to do what's right, good and desirable in this situation. We are to speed up the measures we must take anyway, such as those working against disaster warming and preparing for the already started technological revolution, building more general apartments, facing housing problems and high rent prices. We in the United States stress the reduction of insurance costs and there are particularly small companies that are predicted to be the worst. There is also the possibility that banks will show understanding and flexibility and will not run into companies during the pandemic. Banks need to be able to meet companies, such as short - term loans or deadlines. When transport projects are developed, it is important to choose man - made projects like bridges. The projects there are sufficient for all the one - build bridges and the larger ones waiting. In addition, projects that work against climate problems, such as work on the urban line, and those that facilitate transport, should be accelerated and encouraged by companies to attack green investments. There must be an assessment of the effect of action on different groups of society and on gender. The old way is that the State will face a crisis of men, but it is not just men who are unemployed or who soon become unemployed. Unemployment has increased rapidly, and today some 10,000 people are out of work. 3,900 people have been free of work for six months or more and about 1,800 longer than 12 months. More women than men have long - term non-employment and unemployment improvements have a historical minimum based on the lowest salary rate. Women are more numerous than men in the service, and it is likely that in this situation private consumption will shrink and that the number of jobs in the service sector will be reduced. Thus, the growth in road construction and construction work will not do on its own. During the pandemic, large events will be postponed. Reports of annual festivals, concerts, and other entertainment are already being received. Those who work in these areas may be affected by income, but they may not be in the position of walking to medical funds or other sources of funds. Self - employed people in various fields lose jobs because of reduced demand or loss of employment because of illness or isolation. In order to solve this temporary problem, some funds should be set up to ensure the survival of this otherwise vulnerable group. Tourism, a industry that has grown at an insurmountable rate here on the country, is going to feel the situation a great deal. It is anticipated that some investments that have been made will not pay off and now soup over how guilty the government has been in the business of the past few years. Tourism is a source of professional support, and it can't bear much of abduction. Therefore, it is important that governments find ways to support the work. A large donation is needed for innovation and for the maintenance of a career that is likely to grow well. The amount of money you receive for school and your ongoing education will also need to increase your handsomeness and give you the opportunity to strengthen your position and use your talents and active force in a new way if your current employment is lost. More important, the health - care system must immediately be equipped to deal with unprecedented conditions. While sailing this sea of turmoil, it is important that we all take our years, but we need to keep our hands in focus and make the swing of pain as little and short as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u7	A respectable president. We can be grateful when we experience such shocks as those that now come upon us to have lived in the best interests of our lives. We've spent the past few years renovating debt, improving our position in foreign countries, collecting away, saving money, and for years we've been paying a lot of money. All of this brings us great benefits when we face challenging situations. On the part of Iceland's Penitentiary Bank, we were described yesterday as if we had probably never in history been as well prepared to cope with economic hardships as we do today. Similarly, when it comes to solving the short - term problems we face, the organization of industry has expressed joy in managing government plans. Surely, not everything has been answered about the actions, but most important of all is to say at the outset: we will not sit with our hands, we will step forward, we are going to meet companies, we are going to save what will be saved, and we are ready to go far to do just that. We will take advantage of the position we have created to do just that. Case will enter the council as the circumstances permit, i.e. Of course, there must be a time for preparation to take place or necessary action. We're going to get a lot of work done this month. I think it's very important to keep it clear that we are here primarily dealing with a twofold problem that we face. I want to put my health problem first. We are faced with the threat that this situation can develop, if we are not able to adapt adequately to strings within the country, by the cooperation of everyone's efforts, that there is no control over the health system's limitations. That's the worst thing that can happen. It depends largely on us how it plays out. From other countries, we can see that by means of targeted measures, the rate of transmission of this virus can be significantly affected rapidly between humans. This is a fundamental and must come first because it is a health threat. So far, it's been fine. No other claim could be made than that our finest people did a good example on the bridge during difficult times. There are not many weeks since the matter was not even on the program here at the council or in the community. But this is the situation today, and there is reason to commend those who have taken action to guide the people of the country how we can minimize the risk of the situation I was here describing that we want to avoid, and unfortunately, other nations are dealing with the disastrous consequences. Then there are short - term economics. We are in 2020, seeing a pall. We believe this will be a temporary situation. No one can say, however, how long it will be. There is no promise out there that after we master the spread of the virus, tourists will immediately begin streaming to Iceland. No one has ever promised this. There's nothing we can do about it in our plans. But we must simply do our best and during this situation, we need to help companies through a difficult time by providing financial funds. It's going to do according to every possible way. However, making decisions is not easy for the Parliament to make in this regard. For example, there are dozens of billions of dollars on due Monday. Tens of billions. Are you going to give a relative discount? To put a roof on the deadline, i.e. on which to postpone payment, etc.? These are the decisions we are considering today and will be putting before the council, hopefully tomorrow at a meeting, for a discussion, and hopefully for a release. This is an example of a major decision that we do not have much time to think about, but we must act on it. Similarly, the financial system has to do its work. We are going to do business and households under these circumstances. We already see that the Navy bank has begun to move. We're looking at the lowest growth in history. It matters. This is not enough to solve any human problem in a unique way. But it is important because it provides a measure of space and oxygen. Similarly, measures involved in the financial watch role of the Federal Bank will be relevant, as has been shown during the discussion, and will continue to be discussed by the banks according to how they play. We are obviously discussing that banks are better equipped to perform their role in this matter, to pay for the continuation of dues, further loans, etc. In very simple terms, at the same time, there is a lack of a highly conservative policy toward the financial system when these situations have developed. In recent years, we've been making a demand for collections from the banking system because we've been going through good times. We are living in a more difficult time, and we must give the looser grip on the financial system without getting ahead of ourselves. This will be a crucial period of time. I'm going to state here that I believe that the biggest mistake we could make here at the council is going way too far. It would be better for us to use the fine position we have to do just a little more than what is needed because sharing the damage done too little late can result in much more than the cost of doing just too much. This is what I wanted to say about the economic factor that we are now facing for a short time, in close proximity. Since the third step, which has been entered today, we must at the same time have the ability to look beyond the future. I want to thank you for the fact that it sounds like a good understanding to me at the council that the government has less a proposal to cancel the financial program and to revise financial policy. It seems to me there's a good understanding of this at the council. But that does not mean that the task will be somewhat easier for us to get more time. Rather, we need to make good use of the time and to reach a more reasonable, reasonable conclusion in order to maintain our credibility in public finances under changing circumstances. It even hides. in that we play out a program showing how we can get out of this position as soon as possible so that we will use the good resistance we have today in a lower debt status, in a large national product in all international comparisons, to use the coming years for the application. And, yes, I agree when they say that it must be an investment effort. When you look at the situation this way and believe that we'll succeed here at the council and elsewhere in the administrative system to make the right decisions to deal with the short - term changes we face, there is no reason for you to be optimistic at the time that will take place. Clearly, there are all circumstances for international tourism to flourish, obviously. But what time it takes is not good to say today, and we need to be patient with one another as far as the council is concerned that we can only turn aside the best information at any given time, and for the time being, they have been inclined to change virtually from day to day. It is simply out - of - date today. And it may continue to change in this way. We need patience in order to live in these circumstances and, nevertheless, make decisions as to what circumstances may demand when the view is as little as I am here to describe.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u8	A respectable president. We live in a time of uncertainty that requires that all of us stand together and take good care of one another. And as for Porta, we certainly will not abandon ourselves. All years of restitution to support the government in good works and to offer support and solutions to economic and social problems. I want to thank you very much. The prime minister of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for delivering this report to us. I let me take it at the word when she earlier told us that it was open to our contribution, that we want to hear our ideas, that is, the value of one of the good things to come from. I hope to the highest, too. So as we feel that the government is on the wrong path, the prime minister is equally effective when we in the smaller part of it sometimes play an important role in the executives. President. The government has announced that increasing power will be implemented by public bodies during the current year and the next, and therefore I rejoice. We must want to invest in projects that prepare us for the future while improving our quality of life. Here I speak of an investment in green infrastructure, an investment in the health system, and an investment in intelligent and novelty that will benefit us in the future. We suggest that the government speed up the construction of a new land hospital in order to promote the level of employment in the country and that we are better prepared for the future dangers. We suggest that the government invests in our health care providers, showing this and proving that they are an essential link in our community each day. We suggest that the government invests in environmental sceptical activities that increase food security, improve energy efficiency and recycling, and contribute to the creation of a cycle economy growing in the way of nature. We suggest that we invest in our people and their future in a decisive way. And we will fight it with all our might, standing for this place to be used to cut down in social wood on the altar of bread crumbs. President. The government has announced that the basis for financial policy is smiling. In view of the perceived recession in the economy, it is also clear that the criteria established by the government for getting ahead of selling Iceland banks have also been broken. I call upon the government to turn away his plans and further look for ways to use the state's banks to protect the economy and invest in the people they live in. A respectable president. In times like these, many people are concerned about their health and future and understand that anxiety, even fear, is taking place, as are the people we love. I'm not here to argue that there's nothing to fear, because that's not true. Feelings of anxiety are normal, and it is normal to fear the health that now overtakes the world. All of us, of course, are human, and it is natural and human to fear for our lives and for our lives and for all ways to survive. In times like this, it is human and natural to want to use every means possible to defend yourself and one's own, and no later than right now. While there is a hurry to respond, let us not forget what we are defending. We are defending our people and we are defending our community, which is why we must defend our democracy. In the face of disaster, democracy is most threatened, and a call for decisive, dramatic action on the part of the government. So I want to encourage the highest. The prime minister to keep these views in mind now, as it is urgent that the democracy and the court be given an unnecessary discount in the light of circumstances. Here I refer to a law bill that must be measured for later today, which gives the highest. Transport and Regional Ministers are authorized to disable local administration laws as they do without an acceptable argument or necessary limitation. A respectable president. We want governments to make the necessary decisions and take decisive measures to cope with need, but we also want our rights as citizens of a democratic society to be respected. Therefore, we must not allow fear to dominate us or mislead us. Instead, let him be our driving force to cope with the problem in a calm, progressive manner. The majority of us are afraid to take action that will bring long - term benefits to society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u9	V.E.G. President. I appreciate this discussion, and I appreciate it. Prime Minister for reviewing the situation and proclaiming the actions of the government in the economy. It has been very good during the discussion that the health system has been understandably in its top priority and will continue during this process. Like many others, I would like to use the opportunity to thank the overall health system, the authorities and the authorities responsible for these factors, the highest. Healthcare Ministers, Pathologists, surgeons, and public defense officials, especially the team that has appeared to us every day with information about the situation, the transmission of infectious diseases, reactions, plans, and important factors that concern us all and that help us all to look after our fellow man. What an example of how this has been fulfilled and how information has been presented! Now that we are unavoidable to discuss the situation, economic consequences, and how we react there, we can learn from this how important it is to communicate information, and to give it constantly with confidence and firmness. V.E.G. The government has already proclaimed a number of measures that can be taken immediately on the income side of finance, with a money case on the hands of the Federal Bank, and with financial institutions that have the banks to do. These are all measures that can be taken immediately and very important to communicate even now. These are the main measures that stress the maintenance of employment and the basic building blocks of the economy, which, of course, are home and business. All actions must be performed and must be aimed at granting them the opportunity to keep going. Nobody's gonna hide that it's not gonna be easy. It's a scrap we've got to wade through interways and it's gonna hit the economy, the companies and the homes. A third support, the government, the state, and the rural population, by means of measures such as this will soften the blow. I think we have to look at it this way and believe that the blow will be temporary. We've done a lot of things in recent years to meet what we call a fluke in the economy. These include government contributions to land collective labour agreements. These include 80 billion, consisting of a decrease in income tax, housing, child benefits, delivery leaves, and so on. This has something to say. More than a week ago, the highest was introduced. A package of government to meet the weaknesses in our interiors that appeared to us in the storm of December. All of this has its place. We had a government fund into this year at 10 billion angles. All of these are measures to cope with a fluke in the economy. We're not at that place right now, we're not facing this position. This is unprecedented, and much bigger and more we go through -- but it's temporary. We may have a large reserve of currency. We've lived for the best, and we can do a lot of work. That's what we're in position for. I'll agree with the highest. Secretary of finance. There are historical examples, since it is very important to do more than less in such circumstances. I'm the highest, too. A government to manage matters the way it has already been done to the health program. These are two factors that we must take in full priority at present and provide information as regularly as possible and action into the economic sector. We must do so with the same confidence and firmness that we should be tolerant of our first meeting of information. Governments in these announcements have been more intensive and not precise, but we are soon given detailed suggestions on how to proceed with the action being proclaimed. It is very important that we share information about what is being done at one time. It reduces uncertainty. Uncertainty in this situation will always be great, but uncertainty decreases, and we stop losing our mind in some picture that no one sees but focus on what we are able to do and are doing. So let's agree that any action defends the position of the enterprise and allows it to be reduced by that action. I support all the procedures that have been proclaimed and are all reasonable. I'll admit, though, that I'm also in a way that doesn't have to wait very long to make suggestions on the financial spending side. It may be provided with a preceptive box and given as an injection on that side of the budget. There's nothing in the law that says that the money needs to wait until the fall, that just needs to be one raise, and because it's been during the discussion of making an investment kick. A government to bring such packages quickly, provide information about them, and bring them into the council. We'll take them here and we'll work them all out as one man. I'm sure of that. As I say, there have been wise suggestions mentioned in the first galenna, and we will see further application of them. We've already seen a decrease in population growth at the Federal Bank, a reduction in binding obligations, and an obligatory action on the eco-efficiency of banks to supply oxygen to companies that run into problems. Then there are measures on the income side of the state's budget. A respectable president. It is vital that we keep in mind and believe that this is a temporary situation that requires effort. We are economically successful and have a strong health system. No one's going to be buried in the grave because it won't be easy, but we'll do what needs to be done and done much less. We are to think about all decisions in terms of the individual's best interests and guided by righteousness and good sense. I stress here that uncertainty always causes some insecurity. Everything that reduces uncertainty - and there the information sharing is very important and how information is presented - helps all of us to keep on doing it. This brings some peace of mind. A person may lose his life in a way that is out of control, but as a whole, we will eliminate these obstacles. Every man needs to find himself in his job, and I'm the highest. A government to consider this, to continue as far as health is concerned, with the day - to - day communication of information and response. Similarly, when it comes to a response on the economic side, regular and targeted attention should be given to all the measures we take and in more than half.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u10	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for your discussion. It's important, it's important that the council immediately arrive for possible economic action when such a unprecedented crisis strikes our economy as we are now facing. It is proper to first commend governments and health authorities for how this has been handled, the health problem facing us. How comforting it is to see how our skilled experts inform our nation from day to day, how we should act, how we can respond, minimize the risk of infection, and help our health - care system to cope with this challenge! This is very reassuring and will not be properly commended. Of course, it is vital that we observe all the instructions given from day to day. When it comes to economic issues, we must face the fact that we do not know as we do other nations what lies ahead. This situation is unusual because of its uncertainty, and it is extremely difficult to determine what the next weeks and months will bring. This makes it so important for governments to reduce their economic resources as much as possible from the uncertainty ahead, to make companies and the public as clear and as clear as possible what measures to take and what measures can be taken to reduce this crisis. The problem we face is two. We're dealing with a long-term down cycle. This economic crisis began over a year ago, and unfortunately it has not been reached by sufficient force by this government, which enhances the impact on the economy into the down cycle. We should not forget that the tourism service has been on a very hard trip for over a year, probably a year and a half. It makes it harder for her to cope with the great blow that comes now. Hence, the reaction needs to be clear, decisive, and blunt. That's what I still miss in government statements. There's no explanation. What will be done? It is comforting to hear the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. The secretary of finance says that we will do what is necessary, but in all the coming days, we need to understand exactly what is involved. I call attention to the great difference between the Government's press conference on Tuesday, which was very indentible, unfortunately, very vague of action, and the declaration of the British secretary of finance for yesterday's council that presented a very clear, documented operation taken by the British government of over 30 billion pounds. That means, if we check it on our appeal number, just less than 30 billion dollars. It was a clear and decisive action that took into account what was more important to the shortest time, to ease the blow for the public and the company. What are we struggling with there? It's hard to run a business when income ground falls from business to business almost overnight. That's what tourism is looking at right now. There's no way to predict the end of it. This means that there will be a risk that companies will respond to extreme reactions, including extremes. ... andif unrecognised by direct government action, something should be temporary but a major blow could become a chronic economic crisis. Therefore, it is very important that the response is clear and sufficient. We need to help companies who cannot help but reduce the number of people in these circumstances. You have to make room for a business in order to temporarily add unemployment to a person's situation with shame simply to prevent the failure of the option. The most dangerous thing about this is that companies that are faced with the inability to reduce people rapidly enough than to go bankrupt. That is why it is important to use temporary resources to transfer people to unemployment improvements so that the companies will be there when we get back up after the beating that is happening to us. We must not forget dictators, independent active people who do not have the right to report, sick rights, or anything like that. The government needs to agree with this group, making sure that his rights for illness, unemployment benefits, etc. are present and are more than less likely to be affected. Britain's projection program estimates that as many as 20%, one fifth of the workers may be in sick vacations when the virus is most aggressive. There is a huge problem in small and medium-sized companies. Government procedures need to be looked at to to to help relieve the financial burden that comes with it. These are the short - term measures that need to be decisive and sufficient to help get our work done and our people through the process ahead. In the long run, let us not forget, too, that we need to take on decisive investment plans this year, actions and investments that will be attacked as early as spring, some of which will benefit us and that we will be able to build up other careers against the challenges of tourism. We must not forget, too, that there may be opportunities here, as is always the case. In these circumstances, it may well be that in creative articles, our technology companies, our film production, or other opportunities. We need to make use of them, to do what we need to do, and to do it. with even increased support for innovation companies and film productions and the like to create jobs where opportunities may arise. I think the most important thing is that the first action now that must be taken and presented in the next few days is decisive and is falling to a significant loss of employment in order to prevent what hopefully will be a short-term blow to the long-term economy. That's where I'm looking at insurance. I felt that it would be wise to look to the longer - term decrease and even temporarily drop it to either the selected or the entire commercial situation. It must also be noted that it is very difficult to map in this uncertainty how far the effects are going to be for the entire industry. Then, how we deal with unemployment and long - term tax reductions is of utmost importance. Above all, the key is that we in this hall stick together, settle down, and take up the necessary resources. It takes good cooperation with the smaller parts of the council, good information, that these unprecedented economic problems are not used to strike political cones, neither on the part nor on the smaller part, but on the fact that we are dealing with this problem as it is. We're all in the same boat. All of us are affected by this, and all of us can do our part to make sure that we can get through it as little as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u11	Mr. President. We are now facing a global threat. The enemy is invisible, unrecognized. Yet, at the end of the enemy itself, it will be the one who will give the blow that will win us. We know the Covid-19 virus can't stand soap laundry. We also know that by action that slows down infection, our health - care providers can deal with those who are most at risk. We know that once resistance has been developed, the epidemic will pass. We need to remember that there are two kinds of threats, the imminent health threat, and then the economic catastrophe. In both cases, the magnitude, duration, and effect are still unknown. Above all, it is the health threat, the struggle with an unrecognized organism. Its methods are quite unknown, although knowledge increases from day to day. Scientists around the world are striving to understand this threat better. We need to protect vulnerable groups from contamination, as a pathologist said in Castlight last night. There we all have a lot of responsibility. We also have the responsibility to follow public warnings, clean hands, stay home if we experience symptoms and all the things we know to be successful. We also need to pick up the phone, call some relatives and friends who may have been alone, and have been poor for health, ask them how they feel, and if they need anything, e.g. from the store. We must not forget human beings, and we cannot risk our lives in spite of this threat. It matters where information comes from. Our finest are on the front line these days. They bring us information as soon as possible. Let's listen to the P.R., the surgeon general, the psychiatrist, our health care professionals, and their major experts. Then there's the economy, but there's a serious situation. That is quite different from the shock we experienced in the collapse of the bank. This is a short - term effect because tourists are severely disturbed. They're gonna be a lot better after America's last play. Although it is difficult to assess the magnitude of the effect, it may be likened to having a phlegm failure every month of this condition. It has been a difficult winter, and it will undoubtedly make many feel that it will not end. But it's not just bad news. The export of marine products increased by 17 billion between 2018 and 2018, and the cod gave us 20% greater value. That's what matters. With Icelanders, we know how to deal with financial failures. We know how to cope with an unknown situation, and we do it together. Our social systems, which have been built up over the years and strengthened the last few years by the Government of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, will return theirs. We also enjoy the well - being of state funds and national preparation and can cope with tragedy. An important first step was introduced during the last week when the workforce and the State agreed to ensure that all the pay that are being covered will be paid. Of course, when employees share a responsibility for minimising the spread of the virus, they should not take advantage of it. As we know, on Tuesday the government introduced the first economic action. They are about to defend economic and social stability here. These two things cannot be separated, because it is not about business or public because, as we know, business problems become a problem of the public and the vice versa. Therefore, it is important to try to prevent people from being dumped by means of viable enterprises. Special attention should be given to various groups that may fall between ships and docks during counterweight operations, e.g. Loneliness. A surgeon compared the battle to the crown virus and the disease it causes to fight a few days ago. In that fight, the battle changes from day to day, which may be a reason to ban and close today and allow and open the day. What is being done must be based on the best knowledge at any given time, and it will test all of us in the months that follow. There may be doubts that the U.S. President's decision to close the United States for a month is wise. So I'm going to allow myself to rejoice that the Secretary of State has already objected to that decision with the U.S. ambassador. The differences in government response could make the problem worse for the fight against the virus. It is also important to remember that this is a temporary situation, even if at some point it might seem an eternity. In reality, today you feel as if this is an eternity, even though it is only a short week. But who knows? In the rearview mirror, this period may have been brief. No matter what happens, we're going to deal with it, health authorities, government, public, and professional life. We are all in the same boat, and together we will do what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u12	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussions here that will show us how we can work together and arrange a discussion when needed. The latest press release I've been given today tells us that 103 people have been identified by Covid-19 in this country. Since last night, 15 cases of the virus that causes the Covid-19 disease have been identified in the Geological and Healthcare Department of the Land Hospital. A total of 103 people have been diagnosed in this country, 80 are involved in foreign travel, 23 domestic infections. Most of these infections are attributed to North Italy, as we know and ski areas in the Alps. Three infections have been reported from people who came here from the United States. A total of about 1,000 samples have been taken. This tells us that out of every ten samples taken, one is infected. We're in the weird situation that we're in, in effect, the same place that we were in before a collapse. We must and should learn from what was done there. VR was sending out an announcement which makes it clear that a secure mortgage is immediately frozen. Why is this announcement available? Yes, we know what happened in the collapse of tens of thousands of homes, and we must also realize that the individuals under it who lost their homes today are trying to rebuild their homes. They cannot have exactly what happened at the time when inflation was overcoming everything, and insurance would not be removed. We have an obligation to see to it that it is done and done at once. This is also true in the face of a flu attack where symptoms are amazingly similar to Covid-19. No doubt many people are terrified if they have the Covid-19 virus or the usual flu. Happily, Kári, in the United States, is going to develop and screen for her, and people can get information about which virus they have. National Hospital ◯ A university hospital is postponing all procedures except vital measures from 12,3,115,3.3.3. because 11 staff of the Land Hospital are in solitary confinement. 11 in isolation and 92 in a contagion. This shows us black and white how serious the situation is. V.E.G. Prime Minister spoke of a salary under a contagion. That's great, but in this context, we must not forget those who may be remembered in this society, people who have been left behind, when they were told that they could just eat what they were out of nowhere because they can't afford, not just at the beginning of the month after they've paid their pension, to buy food, but to rely on charities. These people can't afford alcohol. These people can't afford food. These people need help, and we have to make sure that they do. I have full faith that the government will see to it that no one at home has to worry about whether he has food or not. Norway and Denmark have taken very strict measures. We are not yet in that place, but there is evidence that we will likely go to that place. Then, as previously instructed, we need to consider that all are at the same table. The important thing is that action will be started as soon as possible, that action is not implemented in the fall but is now for the tourism company. In the summer, travel services peak, and we need to make sure that SMEs get all the help they need because they have yellowing, mostly working, and most of their jobs. We are under obligation to make sure that there will be a good reception and that they will survive the modern crisis. There is a need to ensure that Icelland's operation does not suffer severe setbacks. It's essential that we have at least one airline that flies to and out of the country and we have to send a clear message to the Americans that we will not tolerate their application of a travel warrant. Social activity is important. The virus affects those who rely on social assistance, as I said earlier, and needs to see if there is any need to be helped to those with disability and disease. It is important to improve care in clinics and care institutions, communities, and other community services. We need to prepare measures that can be taken if a large proportion of people who care for their tasks need to be put down because of illness or because they are going to the hospital, as it has been. If we multiply temporal status values in these articles, at the same time we can prevent design problems if an epidemic worsens and decreases unemployment. It needs to ensure better assistance to the poor as I've been on it. The government needs to take action that will keep poor people from getting sick or that will be affected by the loss of income or the increase in expenses. We have to make sure that everyone gets the needed help. We must also keep in mind that we have a large group of people out there, some 30,000 people who are in poverty and who have lived in poverty for decades, poverty that has caused their health to get worse, and are far worse than any other member of society. It has been found that losing ten years of their lives because of poor poverty, poor food, and poor health care because they cannot afford anything else. We need to make sure that because we have made it a habit to leave these people in the account according to a consumer science, do not leave them with the pay number. We must also make sure that the ones in the pensions, the desperate, the older citizens, and the unemployed, the lowest paid people in the country, also get new bargains. We are to ensure that they will not be inferior, but those who are at the lowest wage in society and therefore also owe and we are to be sure of it and should be prepared to stick together because of this on all of us. We're supposed to make sure nobody gets left out. We are responsible that things will work out just as they were sown.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u13	A respectable president. It will be late grateful for the smooth response of those who have stood in the front of the battle against Covid-19 and also for government trusting professionals to evaluate their status at one time. Such decisions have been guided by public interest rather than by random means, as we sadly saw in the United States last night. Today's situation does not mean that we can lose sight of the values we want to protect. The years after the collapse, e.g. too often in response to assess the impact of action on the position of different groups and sex status. The emphasis was more on concrete around our systems than on an investment in the people who keep the system going. The result still remains in the health system that is now most in need. The same can be said of the importance of more extensive consultations. Sometimes I think that Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, when she was prime minister, began each day when she opened her eyes to think who she should call that day, whom she would need to talk to. More often than not, the workers were at the top of the workforce. Therefore, it became quite Spanish when the government introduced measures to meet the economic impact of Covid-19 that the labor market has not been contacted as early as the first minute, perhaps especially because of the change in the labour market in recent years. Today, a large proportion of people with a foreign background and an ever - increasing proportion of employees are not involved in a steady recruitment relationship but are involved in a job venture. These groups may easily lose out on the social resources that our system offers. As regards the actions presented by the government on Tuesday, it was disappointing to see how unformed they were. I hope meat is added to your bones in the next few days. The next factor to be fully formed and clear is a breakdown of the host tax. At best, there is little showdown for tourism. At worst, the two parties in the government, who have always had a corner in the bank of this price, are taking advantage of the opportunity to get it out of history. However, reactions to transient reactions due to Covid-19 may be useful in building up for the future. The actions can support just and fair transitions in the interests of climate, in order to increase the equation, to support creative articles, research, and innovation. [[The president calls.]] Thus we are to face great challenges, just as we face all the other challenges we face here in the hall by creating a better community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u14	Mr. President. In the present system of things, it is important that governments respond with both decisive and unscrupulous response. In this way the reaction must be to prevent more damage and to bring about the economy, this so - called cycle of employment, as early as possible, to restore its natural rotation after the disaster has taken place. The economic effects of the pandemic are likely to be widespread worldwide, but Iceland has paid off debt, building up reserves, and now unemployment is being built on more foundations than just a few years ago. Mr. President. During the last few years, the economy has been launched into the waves by means of a traffic problem, a failed hairy business, a reduction in the arrival of tourists, and later an uncertainty about the future of aluminium production in Straumsvík. During the present assembly, the Central Party has called for action to deal with the situation, to form a handsome reduction in insurance costs than the government expected. Now for the winter, on top of all of this, we have had to deal with the consequences of a rare storm that revealed that our electrical and communications systems were not at all as stable as we many of us, and that there are major measures. And for the past few weeks, Mr. President, we've had to prepare for a second consecutive failure. Now we're dealing with the crown virus that seems to be becoming a major target of the world's economy. The last thing we need is that governments are invisible in a crisis situation. The people of the land need to think that governments will take decisive action and take decisive action with those of importance. We live under the fact that the nation's place is generally good, a state's debt is good, and there is a considerable foreign currency. So we are well - equipped to cope with temporary problems, but we must take action and take action lightly. Mr. President. I'm glad that some of the middle-class indications we're using as a triple jump for employment have been received by the government. They even walk. Extensive efforts over three years in the construction of infrastructure, including large increases in transport activities, except that they are not sufficiently advanced in our own eyes. Another recommendation by the Middle Party was that the bank's ties would be reduced, and the bat has now dropped it handsomely and is happy to do so. Then I welcome the claims of the bank manager that he does not eliminate a significant decrease in interest in addition to the decrease in interest that has already been reported. At that time, the Central Party has also proposed to reduce the tax on-the-traverage of employment, to reduce the price of the insurance fee immediately by one percentage over the government's plans, which would address the needs of the industry that has been called after this operation, the reduction in insurance costs, for years. Our attitude, our sense of reason, and our thinking, Mr. President, will best be of benefit to us under difficult circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u15	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the entire population to go back 11 years, to the fall of 2008. Then, beautiful autumn days and Iceland had just won silver at the Olympics, and buying was bigger than Adidas and Carlsberg, at least on paper. Icelandic company was the fourth largest drug company in the world, and another Icelandic company was the largest manufacturer of fresh food in the United Kingdom. But then everything collapsed. The foundation of the economy collapsed and really supported the whole community. I happen to be one of the few members of the current council who experienced this situation as a member of this house at the time. I was chairman of the Al Parliamentary Business Committee and vice president of the second class of those days and so in a circle. Uncertainty was complete here, inside and outside. I remember council meetings where members of Congress literally wept. The people began to plant food and a freezer. Each family was affected by the collapse, both economic and social. Unemployment rate tripled, inflation to 18%, the crew fell by 50%, and 90% of the stock market was wiped out. The combined fall of the three banks became the third largest failure in history. These were unprecedented times that no one would experience again. Now we are facing a very difficult time, but we have done so before and only 11 years ago. We should learn a lesson from what we went through them. That lesson cost us dearly, so I am reviewing it. Mr. President. After a collapse, a government led by the Conspiracy took over. The present prime minister's party was also in that government. It was a government that had strong social emphasis on the tip - unlike the one now sitting. Here, I'm going to allow myself to be somewhat cynical toward the government, for I'd like to encourage her to good works and point her out solutions. Consider nine points that highlight the difference between how the then government handled a difficult situation and then how this government handles matters. ... doneuptodoit. 1st In the collapse 11 years ago, the United States government proposed a special green investment plan to meet the decline. This government has not, and it seems to still seem to be thinking in very old - fashioned, male - style terms when it comes to investing. 2. The United States government has over 100 million. K. in child reforms and reforms during their terms. That's twice as much as this government does. 3. In particular, the Union government opened up all schools to face increasing unemployment. No such thing is seen in this government, and despite the fact that unemployment has already doubled since that government. 4. The United States Government greatly promoted the Technical Development Fund, but this government decides to cut contributions to this key fund down by 20% between the years. 5. The Federal Government increased public involvement in financial companies, but this government aims to put money companies away from the public and to rich capital owners. 6th The Federal Government of the United States took large fishing fees so that the welfare system and the green economy could be financed, but this government goes in the other direction and has dropped half of the fishing budget. 7. The Union government launched a huge marketing campaign under the Forms Inspired by Iceland, but little at the same pace for this government, at least Still there. 8. The Union government dropped a valuable tax from industrial work to stimulate the economy, but this government has so far put down a case that is already in the Senate committee. 9. The Union government spared as much protection as possible, but on the watch of this government in the middle of goods, the situation at the hospital emergency room has been described as an emergency. A crisis is a word the hospital staff has used themselves. The reason I mention this is because I want to get good ideas into the government, but I'd also like to say that it matters who's in charge. What is done matters, and what is not done is important. In times of uncertainty, those who lead this country have to live up to their names, and honestly, I don't think the government does. I'm taking out a check for 300 bucks. In the night so far, the government's main motion is, with all due respect, nothing to bear in mind. Mr. President. How I feel about the sad perspective of the chairman of the Independence Party, as revealed in his words this morning when he says: ▪ When these things surface, each one is next to himself. [[The president calls.]] No, Mr. President. We get out of such a crisis by sticking together, working together, taking an interest in others, and looking beyond our own noses.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u16	I want to thank you for this discussion here today, starting with what others have been able to do, that the future will be difficult for us as a community. There will be events in travel services, and especially in the context of modern tourism. Travel services produce up to 40% of our exports as society and more than 8% of GDP. Unlike what used to be, few countries around the world are the same as those of tourism and Iceland. It is not possible to talk about economic matters and the impact on tourism. Travellership throughout society will have consequences in every other part of the community. Of course, we must never lose sight of the fact that our most important task is to slow down the spread of the virus so that it does not exceed the health limit. That's the basic project. We trust the public defence experts and health professionals who have controlled their reactions, and I have to commend them and the information received over the past few days, and the light that comes with it, which is important in a world where false news is very easily flying. The response has been sensible and senseless, and the Icelandic people have agreed with us and have shown a great responsibility to our collective task of delaying the spread of the virus. As early as the first day after the first virus infection was detected here, on Monday, March 2, we called the Travel Control Center to discuss the impact on Icelandic tourism and how we could minimize it. At that meeting there were some ideas, e.g. reduction of the host tax and the power of market campaigns abroad to return tourists when the world's tourists return to their destination. A week later, these actions and many others have been attacked. An enterprise allows for reimbursement on public fees to lighten the amount of money during this century. The Gistintre tax will be temporarily canceled, which, of course, does not make any difference, but it is of major importance and should not be minimized, since it has been one of the main business struggles and interests in hotel and room service. We are going to make a big market effort when this temporary situation is past to participate in the fierce competition for the attention of tourists that will then be involved and we will be ready to spend more money than was previously seen for this purpose, as there are about tens of millions of dollars worth of money spent at stakes. This plan has been introduced and has been fully prepared. It is not true that we do not meddle with such ideas, they are already involved. We expect 1.5 billion in the campaign, and the sector itself will take the job for about 3 billion dollars. Our expectations are that this may soften the impact of missing currency income, which can be taken from 30 to 6 billion billion when compared with doing nothing. This is reasonable because the stimulation of the demand side of tourism is probably one of the most efficient ways to minimize the damage to the Icelandic economy. Mr. President. The environment changes one hour from an hour. Of course, the unexpected ban on U.S. Presidential travel to most European countries is a major factor. It is this with a real leader; some want to promote real - life leaders for a serious reaction, whereas it is part of a responsible leaders'responsibility to arrange a response to reflect on the subject with the basis of an overall context. Although the ban does not apply to the United States itself, it is likely that it will reduce their journeys to Europe, both because of the appearance of the ban on Europe and because they will have to undergo some kind of screening at home and have to come home through a particular airport. In recent years, the United States has been the largest tourist population in the country. Last year, they were nearly half a million or almost a quarter of tourists. If we consider the specific month in question, 38,000 Americans arrived in Iceland in March and 26,000 in April. And while only 30,000 people are among the more than 1.5% of the annual population of tourists in the country, these are of great interest and are, of course, the result of the ban on the international flight of Illeellands. The average price paid by the U.S. tourists last year was 16% higher than the average spending of all, so this is not just a major market but a valuable market published by the Americans, although it was about 23% of the tourists last year, they were responsible for about 30% of the tourist expenses. We will see the response in this article. The head of a company in hotel business and hosting services believe that a third of all books disappear during the ban. He points out that March and April are the smoothest period in Icelandic tourism, so the timing in itself could not have been better than it adds, with President's permission: Those who have endured winter in hopes of better times in the summer, could not see better. We have heard examples of up to 50% decrease in the number of companies before the summer, and the effect becomes enormous. We are working on more relief measures to work with the article and others, such as provisions to put people in a lower labour rate and that unemployment insurance will put what is lacking in the full pay to reduce mass data. We are aware of that ability from the collapse of the bank, and we must, of course, take a serious look at it. We are in a situation that requires decisive action. I want to reiterate that the most important project is still to delay the spread of the crown virus, to do what is needed to protect those of us who are less able to get the virus. While it is primarily to protect our lives and health, it is also vital that we get to the point of success in these challenges. In our good and senseless response to this challenge, there is also the opportunity to return to the desirable destination of tourists. We are a strong community, and there are many things in our community that make us well equipped to go through this. We're all in the same boat, which means we're going through this together.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u17	President. Since the collapse, it has been said of the importance of living in the best interests of the next shock so that we can cope with the pressures when that shocks. Now that it is here, it is of great importance that the reaction is characterized by knowledge and vision and is designed to ensure the right and the safety of the cities as well as the economic future of Iceland. It is a tendency to lose out on short - term thoughts and rescue operations, and while rescue measures are extremely important, in just such times we have the opportunity to demonstrate the power and intelligence we possess by looking to the future as well. The markets of the country and the world are shaking like the Smokeynes today. There are ruines, loss of value, and many of the foundations of the earth. If the message from this room or from the Council of Government or the Secret Service or from any source is blurred or characterized by fear or panic, it is inevitable that the reaction in society reflects it by further occurring events to the Icelandic nation. But if we send a clear message that we're not just going to do well, we're going to give in the markets will follow. President. This is an opportunity to do better than we've done in a good year's trip. A key step in economic activities is to speed up projects that would support the economy and create jobs, e.g. by speeding up the building of the city line and by hurrying up the construction of a new land hospital. Thus, some parts of the project could run out for a good start this year and in the spirit of what we have seen abroad as a response to Covid-19. The actions also need to take into account the realities faced with remuneration and economic hardships. We should emphasize the completion of fair and just agreements with the classes still available in collective agreements, especially those working within the medical system. We need to make a significant increase in funding for the reform systems, the simple conditions, and even eliminate them altogether. But let us not forget in all of this the need to continue working toward a lack of carbon. Now it would be nice to postpone the indiscriminate ideas of the government to destabilize Iceland's New Creation Center and create more scope for the building of environmental sceptres. At the same time, you could start working with international industrial companies, who have high production capacity to create a global medical tool and equipment lacking. In general, we have many powerful jobs that could simply grow and prosper under present circumstances, our mind - working industry, video games, software, filmmaking, and so many articles that are at their best when the intelligent Icelanders have the opportunity to thrive. Let us place extra funding in the Technical Development Fund and support articles that can swing against the contractions we see in the tourism service today. Many other measures are needed to ensure both the stability of the economy and the strengths of the automatic equation devices, whether it is the health system, social security, or the control of SMEs. We must make tangible, clear, and time - appointed plans for how we will respond to the inevitable consequences of this pandemic. We also see the possibility that a limp may come to be on the Kingdom Fund for the next few years, a reality that does not have to be feared. The debt is low, and we have an obvious opportunity to strengthen the Icelandic economy by allowing further payment of the State Fund. The wealth is the key figure here. We need to make sure that in the present economic depression, there is no greater use of extensive maintenance measures that will result in further cooling the economy. We are to use funds to strengthen our economy and, at the same time, use the money we have to make better society and increase our prosperity. The need for a government fund has rarely been as great as ever. Now is the time to turn back on the offensive and not merely focus on saving what can be saved but on building up, moving forward, and molding the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u18	Mr. President. I want to take this opportunity and thank you for your time. In this article, I will discuss much solidarity, solidarity that short - term action is needed to support the nation's economic life in order to cover it with these temporary hardships. I agree with the thought that in all our activities we must ensure the well - being and rights of the people of the country, there is always our guide in what we do. I also agree that people want a variety of investments, a variety of operations, that investments are not just about building more roads that are important, but that we need to look into diversity, green solutions, creative articles, innovations, and research. I also agree on confidence in our health authorities, on the people who are awake and sleeping over ensuring the well - being of all of us, to ensure that we can control the spread of the virus, that we can slow down the epidemic to make sure that our infrastructure survives and has taken full advantage of it. It's important. I must say that there's a difference between me and that. paritaprevir I was there, I was in the government in 2009-2013, and after what we walked through them together, the groups then seated in the government wouldn't think I'd say a word about my comrades in the United States, and I wouldn't think that those who were at that time would be able to lean on the figure of a figure in the Ministry of finance, anyway. Ágústsson Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who has the ultimate authority. The prime minister, Jóhanna the Sigurðardóttir, led them to the government and its restoration. I wouldn't think to belittled by the fact that there were two groups who had to handle a major project. I think that when we look at the situation as it is today, it was very important to have been there when it passed and realizes that we need to have the long - term reasons straight, to appreciate what everyone is doing, and to realize that we are all important to the work ahead, whether we are part of a government or a World Council. They look to what we do, and we have a great opportunity to do it well. The situation is temporary, and we have an opportunity to endure it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u19	Mr. President. I recommend a synopsis of the prevention of sexual and sexual violence and harassment, as well as a plan for the 2021/2025. If I were to sum up all the groups of work that have provided the guidelines for improving prevention and all the challenges that governments have received as well as all the international agreements that give us the obligation to resist sexual and sexual abuse by preventive measures, I would hardly have to last the session here on such a list. In other words, I'd like to say that the overall strategy and plan of action presented here is a long time ago. This policy is not the product of one committee, although the committee that has won the policy is certainly worthy of honor. The policy is the product of social consciousness, political discussion, public policy, theoretical research and the tireless struggle of partners and individuals. Awareness of the nature and consequences of sexual violence and sexual harassment has lasted over many decades. Icelandic society owes thanks to all those who have drawn the wagon and designed educational materials, accomplished research, developed policy, distributed brochures, assisted volunteers, expressed themselves publicly, visited schools, talked to young people, professionals, and parents, and so on. The action against violence and harassment is based on the government's previous policy-making campaigns. It sets up a role model of sexual, mental, and physical violence against children, which lasted in 2012●2015, began in the government that I had in them along with others, and was rooted in the European Council's contract of defenses against sexual abuse of children, also known as the Lanzarotre Treaty. The awakening was for the first time a targeted objector to the prevention of child abuse and was primaryly educational and preventive to children, to people working with children, and to the justice system. The proposal is based on this experience, and a completely consistent strategy has also been established for the 2019,2022 years of action against violence and the consequences of the council's approval in June 2019. This plan was developed on the basis of a declaration of cooperation by four Ministers of the current government and a comprehensive consultation, both national and regional, between social services, child - welfare, educational and health systems, police and prosecution. It has also been ensured that these policy measures are in line with the decision to implement a child protection programme adopted in the spring of 2019 by the General Assembly and the cooperation of Ministers of Social Affairs and Minister of Justice, Health Minister and Education and Culture for Change in Children. Then, the suggestions have been developed in the light of the laws on communication counselors for sports and youth service, No. 45/209. This plan is also in direct relation to other government measures for the eradication of sexual violence and sexual harassment. These include measures that have been followed by # I also or the #metoo wave, shape a sexual immunity policy against digital sexual abuse, and proposals to improve the rightfulness of sexual misconduct. Then it should be taken into consideration by the ambitious action program on the treatment of sexual crimes now performed within the Ministry of Justice, which was granted over 300 million. K. At a yearly level, as well as over 280 million are provided to improve the work programme and quality standards and ensure electronic data flow. The plan of action has a long history and is based on a work that began in the past. Minister of the Interior, Ögmundur, son of Jónasson, was then continued with his follow-up until today. This is of interest, for such agreements are rarely met in councils where different categories can take the lead, and ministers can be frequent. I think it's important to keep this thing going here at the General. It's important that we form a parapolitic stand for measures to eliminate sexual and sexual violence. A respectable president. The question is asked, why sexual and sexual violence, but not all violence. Such questions are valid, and indeed the goal is to eliminate all violence in the community. On the other hand, we must also view sexual, sexual, and sexual harassment as a special consideration so that we can eliminate it. Sexual and sexual violence and harassment often take place in balance with power, making an adult or an older person violent or violent by a man. At the same time, violence and harassment may have different manifestations, depending on whom it is directed. Violence against disabled persons can have a different manifestation, and disabled children and youths may be exposed to violence and harassment in other ways than unapproached children. Women are in a large part tolerant and men in much of the majority of the bacteria, and this should be taken into account. However, it should be noted that violence and harassment can always be directed against individuals of all genders. At the same time, there may be people of all genders. Social media such as # I like or #metoo and # capitalism showed how common sexual violence and harassment are in our society, so common that it is a matter of everyday living. The subject is changing it, and to change it, we need to be able to deal specifically with the nature and consequences of such violence. The proposal suggests that there is no sexual or sexual harassment in any Icelandic community. Since violence and harassment are a social problem, it is necessary to eliminate the elements of society that allow such violence to continue. It is both the cause and the result of another gender discrimination and will only be removed by a joint campaign based on a profound understanding of nature and the consequences of such violence. A powerful precaution is a key factor in this course. Prevention seeks to prevent violence and harassment, but it also reduces the damage such behavior affects the victims and their victims. A significant reaction to sexual and sexual violence and harassment and behavior that contributes to this is part of future prevention. It is not only a matter of violence and harassment but also of promoting relationships that are marked by respect and equality. The synonym suggests that prevention will be integrated in education and education at all schools and will also take place within vacation homes and social centres, sports and youth activities, and other leisure activities. This is how all young and young people are endeavored to reach out to those who lack sexual or sexual violence and harassment. It is important to direct prevention through school work to ensure that all children gain knowledge of the nature and consequences of violence. The study material is expected to be used for all schools as well as for educational material on the nature and consequences of sexual and sexual violence and harassment for staff working with children and young people. To ensure the continuation of the programme, the European Union of Iceland is proposed to hire a special vice president who works with rural schools, schools and gymnasiums outside the classroom, to impart knowledge and education to elementary schools and nursery schools throughout the country. The deputy also defined roles for higher schools, although they do not live under the countryside, they can provide both speciality and conformity to high school prevention. It is then assumed that education will be directed to those working with children, both in order to ensure appropriate communication and intervention, and to ensure that listening conditions are appropriate when children report violence. Among other things, a special online course will be prepared, and it is hoped that all employees working with children and young people will be able to take such a course. However, they are only the foundation, and it is important that education be done in schools, institutions, and associates with open discussion. There are too many cases of children trying to report experiences of violence and harassment more than once before receiving appropriate help. In such cases, violent men may take a definition authority over what has really happened, and as a result, there is often a long period of time since violence is committed until a person seeks help. To reduce this time is a great advantage not only for those who are helped earlier but may have to be released from the cycle of violence but also for the community where there is a greater chance that doers will have to shoulder responsibility for their actions. It has a preemptive value in itself to break the silence, since violent people are less likely to continue to resort to violence under the cover of silence. In connection with policy development, which is the basis for the synopsis proposal, the development of wide consultations with institutions, associates, and instructors who are responsible for the prevention as well as the facts were presented in government consultations. Some changes were made in the program to respond to comments from a newscast. In particular, they submit to better implementation for prevention of violence and harassment directed against disabled children and young people. Clown children and young people should be given the same education as other children, both sex and sexual health, and violence and harassment, although in some cases there may be reason to work on further study design, e.g. in easy reading. The plan is that the prime minister will conduct a administrative responsibility for the actions programme, but clearly based on close cooperation with educational and cultural minister, social and child - care minister and health minister for the participation of their recruitment and their professional institutions. The total cost of construction is estimated to be considerable or in nearly 160 billion. K. For the next five years, but if there's a course of motion here at the General Assembly, money will be assured to the plan within the framework of the Ministry of Presidency. Mr. President. I began my business with suggesting that the policy we have here is a long time ago. Despite a very extensive work in many of the community's behalf, the overall policy of prevention against sexual or sexual violence and harassment has never been developed. However, since then there has been repeated calls for rich demands on Icelandic governments because of international commitments, including those of the United States. In connection with contracts that ensure the rights of children, women's rights, and rights of disabled people. As we don't find it boring to report, Iceland has called attention to success in global sex rights, but if we're going to live up to it, it's our duty not to stay there but to continue to eliminate sexual discrimination. Sexual and sexual violence are the most vivid manifestations of the discrimination, both the cause and the result. I hope, therefore, that the proposal has a sound foundation in the General and professional coverage. I wish that she would be following this discussion. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u20	Mr. President. I would like to discuss a few points from a report by the Prime Minister on the status and development of equality issues of 2018 and 2018 published in the conduct of an equal assembly in February. I want to thank you very much. Minister of this transfer earlier, since she was extremely well aware of what lies ahead in the work of the General and Education Committee on this matter. In 2018 the scope of sexual harassment, sexual harassment, or violence, as well as the harassment of an Icelandic labour market was named under the leadership of Ásta Snorradóttir. The report that the committee put into practice, the bait at the workplace, a study of the common and nature of harassment and harassment in a Icelandic labour market, shows that about 1 in 10 people in the labour market have experienced sexual harassment during their working years. However, these statistics are sadly gender, while about 17% of women and about 4% of men have experienced sexual harassment at work markets. At such times, caregivers are most likely to have been subjected to sexual harassment at the workplace, followed by personnel in services and shopping. Of course, it is disturbing for anyone to endure sexual harassment or violence in the workplace. At work a person should feel safe and that way. The environment should be made so that it can grow and thrive. In this context, I would like to discuss the status of low-paying women because much has been discussed with them recently and especially with collective agreements. I'm glad that the labor force leaders have called attention to their positions and is important that the discussion of low wages continues. The work that society could not do, and the work that all of us do has to do in one way or another. The society wouldn't walk without them. Sadly, as a community, we have systematically underestimated this key labor force for so long, so it is a pleasure to begin the course of righting women of low wages even though far away in the country still exists. However, this study shows that it is not only the economic aspect shown on the salary card at the end of each month that we need to consider. We need to rethink the entire working environment. Even a change of mind in society is needed toward those who do such work in order to do good to them, and not later to be kind. You see, I believe that caring for others will mean being even more important over time. As we all know, we are growing old as a nation, and we realize that we need more people in the future in caring for our needs. Of course, this will catch the point that in the environment, women need the fear of being harassed or subjected to violence. I'm not talking about the real rewards when we need more jobs. As a result, we have begun to remedy and, of course, continue. I'd also like to discuss only the international # I like the conference held in the Harpa in September. It was the greatest international conference ever held of what we have called #metoo, and it received great and deserved attention within and beyond the rocks. This convention was an important contribution to the global movement, and all of those involved in organizing this event are worthy of great commendation. I believe that the accounts of women of foreign origin and coverage of the status of disabled women who live with employment and forwards have included: be particularly important in the #methoo speech here. Gender, class, race, nationality, social status and elsewhere are the more unbreakable components of the #methoo speech and its subsequent. It is good, then, that there were many voices heard at this conference. Iceland is often discussed as a kind of equal paradise. Undeniably, there have been great success in international equality, and we can be proud of the progress that has taken place and those that have already been achieved. It is vital, then, that we continue in this course because the progress we have made will encourage us to continue to make progress in that area. The Conspiracy proposal we're considering from the highest level. Prime Minister is the key in our collective task to eliminate sexual harassment and violence. At the same time, I believe that the proposal is a part of an even larger battle for equality in all areas of society, and I truly believe that the action and vision reflected in the proposal will help to increase the effectiveness of aged education, the prevention of high school schools, elementary schools and high school schools, to increase equality and better society for all of us. That's why I think it's very important that we resolve this proposal at the council this spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u21	A respectable president. I'm just going to come up here to celebrate this special proposal for the prevention of sexual and sexual violence and harassment, as well as a plan for the 2021/2025. The proposal suggests that the Council of Churches conclude that prevention is based on progressive training at all schools in cooperation with health care, vacation homes, social centers, and teaching is based on knowledge that is well - chosen and that students are mature at each school level. It is well explained in the suggestions on how this plan relates to a number of activities that have been carried out in recent years and is being carried out in parallel, including referred to the personality awakening program against violence, 2012,2015. In fact, I believe that this was the subject of the discussion in this field at school. Therefore, it is very important that this work now be carried out in a specific way. These suggestions and this work also help me to see that I am completely in the spirit that is being worked on in a great deal of work to reform children. A Roman Catholic Committee, including a member of the United States, is a member of the United States of America. to work where there are expected to integrate a wide range of cover - up work and support for children and families across health care, school, vacation home, and social services. The emphasis is high, and I think it's very important that the groundwork, which is the ongoing education, is beginning. It is often surprising that all those who work with children, whether at the clinic or at different schools, have the opportunity to understand the material being provided and to have the opportunity to put the work into greater contact with other secular jobs. Similarly, it is very important that the study material is expected to be available to each class, since it is important that a teacher and instructor be able to handle the foundation at any given time, but it is also good to have the study in order to continue leading students. I believe that when you do this, there is a real opportunity to change culture, and that's what this project is all about. As mentioned in the case of the highest. The prime minister is sexually and sexually violent and harassed, both the result and the cause of discrimination. So it is a key to righting things out. I'd like to mention at least... Three operations. One is access to the study material and educational material. It suggests that the entire course of the study provided in connection with the Action Programme will be made available in a search well at the National Institute on Environment. That is exactly what has been missing with a prior task, so it is vital that we make a significant contribution to the meeting of the study material. It's, for example. Now it is difficult to find study material that has proved to be effective, and educational programs related to the projects get yes, stay with you, and continue. It is important that we make it available everywhere. Then I'd like to mention Project A.7, which is an educational campaign for sexual privacy. It is the only project that is expected to reach the whole community. The others are all confined to youths. I think this is very important, because while it is clear that prevention with children and young people is most effective, in certain cases it may be very important to bring up the whole community at the same time. In particular, I would like to mention, in connection with the development of study material before high school, and I would like to point out that it is important to consider specific circumstances in your dormitory. Homes are a special environment, so it should be taken into consideration when preparing secondary studies for high school. In the same way, I'd like to mention that in educational material in youth and sports activities and other leisure activities, particular attention will be given to the circumstances in travel, whether on bus or staying in classrooms or in any other setting. It is often filled with special situations that young people are not accustomed to everyday life. Finally, I would like to mention that the study is important to all groups of people, including children and young people of a foreign background. You might continue and go through these procedures for a long time, but these are the main points that I was interested in attending a previous discussion. As I said at the outset, I rejoice in the synopsis and support her with careful coverage and management of the current council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u22	V.E.G. President. First of all, I want to celebrate the presentation of this proposal. I may find it symbolic that she is present at the council right now when we are just incarcerated to the possibility of a system of flesh that has been victimized by violence against women in particular, and that she uses her superior positions and may be the person that triggers the campaign we know under the name #I too. I find it very symbolic that the motion is presented at that time, perhaps showing us how to work a case on it and how to influence the future. In fact, there was another point I wanted to make regarding the Congress resolution before she goes to the committee. She's very well put together and clear goals, who are partners, and so on, I turned down the proposal, and it caught my attention that I didn't see the State Church. In this piece, I didn't see any nation church or any other religion or philosophy. If we're talking about prevention, and if we're going to start, for example. Right away in child - work, it is possible to draw attention to the fact that the church represents a much more powerful child - rearing activity. Of course, they should also blame people for social, social, and national boundaries, such as. ensuing education and other education of what is called civil squareness may be, but it may be rather an act of anthropology because civil warming is not in itself to confirm anything but is being inculcated with ethics, which is naturally very good. The school and the nursery are referred to here, and if we're going to take this dump, and if we're thinking about raising and affecting every sex in the future, I believe that to get even better and more broad appeal, then church work and religion's work at home should be done on this proposal. I was now standing up to point out this point so that it can be discussed and considered when a prospective General and Education Committee takes over the case. I felt that this was out of harmony with how well the strategy is working and how well you take over who's going to be involved. I felt that this point was sort of missing and that I wanted to draw attention. I say again, I'm glad that the proposal has come out. This week, it may have been a very impressive New York front convention, actually on the United Nations side, but very small in comparison with what is normally the United Nations. What may be of great importance to us Icelanders about the Akward movement is that the voice of the Icelanders is very carefully heard both at these UN conventions and is being listened very carefully to the voice of Icelanders at the United Nations scene when equality issues arise. Iceland is looked forward to progress and development in equality and prevention. Hence, it also makes you proud that this suggestion has come along and that it is, for example, the case. can be introduced to the next UN Conference, which includes both women and children's activities, etc. I think we should, we should show the universe what it is we can do and what we're doing, and we can do it. I know that even me and the Icelanders have. in development work, etc. But I think we're supposed to have things like this. I believe that this proposal confirmed exactly how rich a desire is in Iceland to promote prevention and increase the fight against sexual and sexual violence and harassment and also to bring to the attention the emphasis that the Icelandic government has already placed on equality in the vast sense of that word.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u23	Mr. President. I thank the members of Congress who have taken up this discussion and are thanking them for a positive subject. I would like to say that I wholeheartedly agree with the last speaker, why. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson, that I think this can be done, if we do it well here in Congress, make us feel good and how much better when the proposal is made and we start to see it in school work and other leisure activities. I came up primarily to respond to the tip of the matter. The senator who spoke here last. It is true that the nations and other religions were not referred to. On the other hand, religious altruism was consulted. FEW and KFUK came for example. to prepare and to be very powerful in preparing this suggestion, but I believe it has a good chance to do so in case of some. The General and Education Committee to summon more people. The main focus, as I learned, is at school because it includes all children, but it is of course important for other societies, e.g. Religion, may take advantage of this material so that I think it is possible to call it as well as others who may not have been involved in the preparation, since I think this material we are talking about will benefit from all those who work with children and young people and serve the important goal of eliminating sexual and sexual violence and harassment in our society. It is a social lesion, and perhaps one of the main factors is that we are able to achieve our goal for the full equality of the sex, and we have said that we will not achieve it later than in 2030 under the premise of the United Nations world goals. A senator may well know our involvement in the United Nations Women's Conference. But there is still a long way to go, but this can be an important step in reaching that goal. Other than that, I thank you and hope that Congress will result in the conclusion of the matter at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u24	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to correct the change of information, No. 140/2012. The history of the case is that on March 16, 2018, I ordered a review of legislation in the field of expression, media and information freedom, which was in part. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The committee gave you a bill and, like, what? According to law No, members of the council are less inclined to deliver a bill at the last legislation. 72/209, with which there were some changes in information code. Among other things, the values of the law were extended so that they covered the administrative aspects of the International Assembly and Justice and required to include initiatives from their case logs, which take place at next year's conventions. In the treatment of the bill at the General Assembly, there was a problem. Commission and monitoring committees reporting from the Labour Associations where further changes were proposed to the information legislation regarding the legal status of the so-called third party, i.e. those who may be interested in providing access to specific information. As a result, the proposals were considered in the Ministry of Presidency, and the conclusion that some of them could be improved according to current standards. The right of the public to access data in the possession of the official organisation affects various limitations, including the private interest of individuals and the greater financial or business interests of companies and other agencies. However, when request for data can protect the interests of a third party, it is not considered to be an individual in the sense of administrative law and has a limited chance of affecting the conclusion of a candidate's right to access. Thus, a third person does not have a right or right to ask a review of a decision to access data if he believes that it will harm his interests. However, it is often necessary to take a third party's position on their own data. Two. 17th par. It is therefore recommended that the government or the person with a request be allowed to challenge the person with information to inform if he thinks they should be kept secret. This rule includes implementation of the Court's investigation order that cases should be sufficiently informed to allow a decision to be made. However, in progress the public often lacks a third party's position to deliver data before providing a data request. With 1 st. So the bill is suggested that the wording of the law be changed in a way that calls for such a stand unless clearly unnecessary. The phrase "importantly unoccupied " has been used to identify events in which a third party's attitude, in the opinion of one who has a request for release, could have no effect on the right of a waiting person. Events may be such that prolonged implementation, e.g. The decision made by the Commission on information matters indicates that the public is entitled to specific information, even though it is considered the interests of third parties. It may then be that a third party's attitude toward the shipment is already in place and that it is clearly unnecessary to recover. The same is true when the information presented has already been made public and the availability of a candidate cannot be jeopardized by third party's interests. Finally, it may be requested to protect the private interests of many third parties, where the interests of each individual are similar and relatively easy to take into account whether they outweigh the interests of the individual. In such cases, as I have mentioned, it may obviously be unnecessary to gain the position of each of these parties in order to be granted access. Cases in which the use of this rule is considered are not necessarily considered. Rather, every time a request is made, it must be made for data on whether or not they submit to sufficient financial interest in third parties in order to draw his position on the delivery. As I took steps earlier in my speech, a third person has a limited chance of seeking his rights if he believes that a decision to access data would endanger his own interests. In fact, there is no other option but to bring about damages for the loss of the delivery but no way to prevent it. The same is true of the decision - making committee on information matters that a third party feels will cause harm to them. So the bill suggests that a third party will be granted the right to postpone the legal action of the Committee during the judicial hearing. According to Article 24. Enlightenment may be the administrative authority or another member who falls under the standards of the law send such a requirement to the committee if it is considered necessary to bear the decision of the Committee under the courts. If the committee agrees, the case should be submitted within seven days of the release of the decision for postponement and requested to have prompt treatment for the province. If a prompt treatment is refused, the case should be appealed within seven days of the trial. The decision - making committee has considered that with a warrant for delaying the court's effect, it is the primary concern of cases involving relatively important interests, especially private interests, which could be impaired in an irreparable way if access to data or information was given to them in opposition to the information laws as they might later be explained by courts. In view of this, see paragraph 3 of the book What Does the Bible Really Teach? the bill that the private person is granted the right to demand an extension of the right effects in his own name, but the permission to postpone the deadline will be the same conditions as those of the charge of the case. The right of a third party to demand a court order is dependent on the person's realistic ability to know that such a decision has been issued. Is it suggested with 2 st. The bill that the decision is made by the Commission to send a third party copy of the decision when it comes to the obligation to provide access to data relevant to the key and active interest of the third party. Finally, in the bill it suggests that the government's Commission can exchange work data with public agencies that the Agency helps without them losing their position as work data in the sense of information law. The general rule is to provide access to work data if given to external sources, but because of the role of the Commission in the costume of public projects, it is appropriate that various preparatory data between them and the official organisations can continue to be protected. Mr. President. This bill suggests that there will be changes in information legislation in order to improve and clarify the legal status of third parties, i.e. those who may have a interest in being provided with access to specific information under the law. The change is not intended to contribute to the limitations of public information rights. Rather, it is a goal to ensure that a third party's position can be obtained at an appropriate time. It will then be reasonable to believe that individuals and companies are authorized to carry the Commission's decision on information matters of private interest under courts with the same conditions as public members now have in accordance with information law. Mr. President. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The management and monitoring committee and the 2nd. at the end of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u25	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for this matter. I'd like to ask you a few questions. True, I find it important to improve third party's legal status, and it is important that we all be sure of our legal standing when it comes to carrying out information laws. I think it's a good thing for all of us that there's a clear answer to what it's like. It matters how we approach this subject and whether any possible counter-improvement is needed if the treatment period for the decision-making committee is likely to be prolonged, that it takes longer to get its release from the decision-making committee because of the increased demands made on the decision-making committee and because of the new possibility that a third party decision may be delayed by a decision-making committee. So I want the first pitch to ask the highest. Minister: Is it a requirement to further the decision - making committee on information matters that enables it to deal with the long run of events that have been extremely time - consuming? Does a minister have any ideas about what that means if a person charges and asks for an extension of proper action in the present court order? What does that mean? Is it possible to go to the courts for routines? Will it even take years to draw conclusions in that matter? Has the highest. A minister assessed how this might affect e.g. The media that may not have much of the information to do a year later?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u26	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Asvardsdóttir for the counter-sponsore. First, I'd like to say that we've been working on strengthening the decision-making of the Commission and never more decisions have been made. However, the trial period is still too long, since there are several cases at the board, it will not be overlooked. Hv. A senator asks: " Will this prolong your time? ' First of all, we're putting a very tight amount of time into the bill. Second, this is not a far - reaching source. If we look at the occurrences where government officials have been asking for these provisions, 30 requests and only two requests have been agreed on, because the warrant is restricted to public agencies. We are suggesting a comparable record for the private person in this case, but we do not expect that this will necessarily have any effect on the duration of the treatment in general and not at all the treatment of the committee, since it is all about what happens only after the committee makes its decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u27	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for this answer, but I may still be asking if it has been examined how long a request for a court order might delay a court order. Can a typical judicial procedure be performed, or how was such a case assessed? And then I'm curious to know what makes it possible to suggest in the bill that data sources from public bodies on government projects are considered work data. Why did these measures have to be specifically carried out, and what was the argument behind limiting access to this information in relation to perhaps other projects or other activities carried out by the institutions of the State but still have to accept the need to become information-based data to trade between institutions?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u28	Mr. President. Yes, we look forward to giving a narrow delay to seek out this exception, seven days, and then being rushed by the courts, the decision - making committee agrees. I mentioned here the proportions as they have been on the subject of public affairs, so we are primarily saying that the same rule applies between public and private parties. It contains a measure of equal reasoning, and we considered it right - if so. A senator uses less information on the information bill in his day - to respond to it. We believe that having the box narrowed and restricted sources does not include restrictions on public information rights. In terms of the Commission, she has a special position as the institution in which public projects are actually carried out, whatever their names may be called, i.e. Building projects. This is in fact due to indications that it is important to provide work data and remain committed to work data before it is finished in preparing complex projects. We wanted to consider that. It may be that something similar, and I think the committee should discuss it, perhaps to form, would refer to the road model, which is the major foundation. I don't know that. But this is because of the tip we received from the government's administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u29	Mr. President. I recommend a bill to legalize the Power Fund, on the threshing floor. 1083, 639. The bill suggests that there will be special laws on the operation of Energy Fund. Power Fund's history was traced back to 1946 and his project was long hidden in the general development of electricity and heat plants all over the country. In recent years much of the budget's focus has generally been shifted in support of energy exchange and the use of domestic renewable energy sources, e.g. Support for thermal pumps in cool areas and the country's loading stations. The law discusses the Power Fund and its role in Article 8. Law on Power Institute, No. 87/2003. This role description has remained unchanged for a few years and limits the current law code in a sense the government's ability to hide energy funds beyond what is stated in it. In view of the experience and knowledge that has been established by Energy Fund, it is advisable to believe that there is a certain amount of space to cover energy with existing energy related tasks, in accordance with government general policies, both energy issues, innovation, urbanisation and climate. The bill therefore suggests changes in the role of Energy Fund, arrangements, and management. This is a factor in the general growth of the fund, in line with its growing role in recent years and the general policy of the government on energy issues. Energy fund plays a key role in government operations of energy exchanges, the induction of energy innovation and the interaction of energy issues and climate. For this reason, it is considered right to strengthen the support of Energy Funds and regulations by means of a special sentence on the fund. Was at the bill's contract being taken into consideration by other government funds, such as the government's communications law. In the past two years, long-term energy policy, energy policy has been under way, and is expected to take a look at the light of the day in the next few weeks. Energy source supports long-term energy vision as it has proved to be a principal tool by the government to implement various activities related to targets and the government's emphasis on energy exchange and the construction of energy plants. By means of the bill, an appropriate set of laws on energy funds is provided so that governments can and can effectively and effectively use it to achieve government goals. In particular, the bill suggests that the role of Energy Fund will be defined in a way that requires the implementation of national energy resources through funding or loans, in particular by reducing fossil fuels use and increasing the efficiency of national renewable energy sources. At the same time, the bill suggests that Energy Fund supports projects that promote energy security and competitiveness in energy and energy related tasks on the basis of energy policy, innovation policies, regional policies and government policies on climate. According to the bill, energy funds will remain in the Icelandic state and will be subject to a government minister of energy that commands the administration of the fund of three men. Instead of today's Advisor Committee of Power. Power Fund management over the management of the fund in accordance with its role and the management of the Energy Agency daily under the control of the fund. The fund's management board makes proposals for a minister for loans and contributions according to the government's priorities and policies as well as the financial and financial payment programme. If the bill is legal, the energy fund will be better equipped to take on projects that governments give it without resulting in greater costs for state funds. Energy treasure is then an independent subject and is not part of the bill recommended here. Finally, I'd like to mention that the Energy Fund has played a role in the development of energy infrastructure in the country, and is still doing so, as shown by the specific strength of Energy fund to build up power stations on a national scale. I mention this in the context of the fact that recently a group of government campaigns were presented for the development of infrastructure until the next few years and decades, especially in the field of electricity. In this context, we will consider how the source of the Power Fund could become the support measures contained in the current strategy of the Management Board's consultations. It is too early to tell about this at this point other than that there is good experience in hiding such projects. So I think we should take a closer look. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u30	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the story. Of course, this is a very important subject, an energy fund. The report first discusses the history of Energy Fund, which has been operating for 73 years, says here, with different names like the Electric Fund and the Earth's Fund. The sea has played a very important role for the inhabitants of the country, especially in paying for underground conditions in cold areas. This, of course, is highly economical, where the government fund spends large sums in subsidies of electricity for house - to - house heating. Furthermore, the quality of life is not forgotten, but about 90% of homes in this country enjoy their quality but 10% do not. The report discusses the growing role of Energy Fund in recent years and therefore considers it proper to strengthen its foundations and regulations with a sentence on the fund. I think that's good. We will also see that this is a way to provide the funds with a variety of projects. In particular, the fund has become involved in energy exchange, and the focus since 2019 has been on and on these topics. strengthening loading stations. At the end of the report on impact assessments, it says that the bill, as a law, will not affect the government's finances. What I want to ask the highest. Minister is now developing new priorities, such as energy change: How is funding the fund for continuing important projects such as geothermals, etc.? Is there any danger of new emphasis that may have caused the fund to miss out on the primary projects he was originally intended for, which are at my judgment of great importance? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u31	Mr. President. The fund is low, and it's been a long time. I think it's about 32 million. K. every year. There will be no change there with this bill, no more money in the fund. If so, it would be a personal decision and would be to my knowledge of a good deal of capitalism. The sea has so far been assigned to work and finance, and that includes. Because we are making specific laws about him so that he is even more equipped to take on assignments. The government's operation program has considerable resources, and energy funds are actually hidden, in effect, and handled by certain projects inside it. The funds don't exactly enter the Energy Fund, they're entrusted with certain projects, such as the formation of electrical vehicles. It's just a matter of staging, and any adjustments are not being made. Rather, the fund is being made more ready to take on assignments from another source. Of course, it is a personal decision to finance the fund further so that it can promote itself and the specific tasks.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u32	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. The reason I specifically mention this is, like the highest. A minister mentioned, that there is not much money to be played, and the need for the fund to be made stronger. However, I know quite a few examples of individuals who applied for the funds, such as the highest level. The minister mentioned, about the thermal pumps, etc, and often in the past the rate is the answer that the fund is empty, there is no money, and there is no concentration request. I'm calling it here because it's economically very practical to disappear from the so-called routine heating. That's why I think it's very important in this relationship to the highest level. Ministers think about these matters, and especially in the context of this matter. It is obvious that the fund is about to begin to deliver a stream of more extensive tasks such as well, such as I mentioned, loading stations, etc., but it is the viewpoint that people can be confident that they will continue to meet those who even want to get hot water, stand a stream of drilling, etc. All in the eye of being free from an electric heat, which is not the same quality of life as it and the heating system that I mentioned before. I just wanted to stress that this will not be forgotten in the debate on the energy exchange that has been given a lot of emphasis and is mentioned specifically in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u33	Mr. President. We're gonna go for a second. A senator argues that the funds are important, and many good things have come from the fund and come into play because of his support. As I mentioned earlier, it would be a fine provision for the fund to expand, but the key point is that it is well equipped to take on further projects. In recent years, he has been given an assignment to carry out and finance, so it is basically the big thing, whether it is the development of commandancy or the possibility of some kind of role in geological development or other projects and ideas that are now discussed. Of course, we have reached a considerable degree of exposure to hot water and heat supply. Probably there will always be some areas that do not, so this interaction is necessary too, that when hot water is not found, we invest in thermal pumps that are relevant to the areas as well. The role of the fund is important, and his future I think will be that there will be more than fewer projects in the future. They have been varied, and the stronger the fund, whether with independent funds in the fund or with certain projects, will help us get even further, whether in energy exchange or in order to improve quality of life and the quality of life of people living today in cold areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u34	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize a branding law, No. 45/1997, with subsequent changes, No. 640, that's it. 1084. The bill is suggested to implement the European Parliament and Council Directive 2015/2436 on the integration of Member States' legislation on logos, which includes review of previous regulations on logos. The bill also suggests that laws on union marks will be placed in place in the interest of simple ones in the law on brands. These are suggested by several adjustments in the regulations of the product code to make it clearer, and to increase the effectiveness of other intellectual rights and normic laws on brands. The objective of the bill is to bring the standards to our modern world by making them user-friendly and more efficient, available to the public, and in harmony with the latest technologies. The bill has increased opportunities and reforms for the protection of mental rights and can improve the competitiveness of companies and individuals who want to protect the rights of minds. The main change in the bill is to disappear from the requirement that a brand be a even more visible symbol. Instead, a brand is expected to be any kind of symbol that can distinguish a person's product and services from one person's own or similar products and services and that it can be identified in a product file in a clear and precise way to which the exclusive rights are reached. This allows you to record signals such as color, sound, smell, animations, etc. In addition, the bill contains clear terms for the content of private rights to a sign, i.e. potentials in connection with the application of the court as well as the limitations of the court as well as on which there is a clear right to forbid the use of a sign. In addition, the change in the protection of registered product labels is proposed on the day of application instead of the registration date. The bill is suggested to add general registration criteria. This will allow rejection of a registry showing only the shape or other features of a product, due to technical role of product, or which increases its value by a difference as well as if signals consist of or show major factors of an earlier registered plant name. It is also added in a clearer way than before to deny a tag if an application is submitted in a bad faith. It is suggested that the Constitution authorities be able to deny partial registration of signals, but the proposal includes the legalization of existing administration. The bill suggests that laws on the uselessness and protection of a protested language will be established. The suggestion means that the owner of a signal on which an object is opposed may be asked to demonstrate the use of the symbol on which the objections are based. The bill also provides a clearer framework for administrative downkeep of registered product labels. If suggested, the process will be divided into invalidation of the product logfile and deletion of the product logfile. The right effect of these two measures is different and clearly defined in the course of these measures. A set of cognitions and quality indicators is being developed in the bill in a clearer way than before. Increased emphasis is given on rules to follow as well as the review of partner records, as well as the submission of notifications, as well as that which must be permitted to invalidate the registration of partner labels, do not comply with the rules of the enterprises until conditions and if the owner fails to submit updated rules for publication. In addition to the above, changes to the norm are suggested as a pattern for third party registration of product labels and application time as well as to cancel the requirement for law-oriented interest due to a administrative deletion of brand names. A respectable president. After the discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u35	President. I recommend a bill to correct the change in rural government law, No. 138/2011, about an emergency in a rural society. The bill suggests a change in 131 st. The law: It's a... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... Before 1st. comes a new paragraph, as follows: A minister may decide, having agreed with the Icelandic Community partner, that a rural government is allowed temporarily to deviate from certain local government policies to the management of rural society to ensure that rural government is functioning under emergency conditions and to facilitate decision-making. b. Instead of the word '- 1'. mg/m2 a.m. is delivered at 1: 1 and 2 mg. c. The headline of this article reads: A crisis in a rural society. Now the headline is 131. g.: However, the headline is suggested to change into a state of emergency in a rural society to be inattainable. It is suggested that these laws come into effect. The bill is from an environment and transport committee and I'm going to review the report provided. The bill is proposed to respond to the requests of rural society to create space in rural administration laws to deal with the crisis caused by the Covid-19 virus disease. Public defence authorities have issued recommendations to be most careful to prevent the spread of the disease-induced virus. To be able to respond to these recommendations without the threat of decision-making within the community governance system. There's a reason to clear out telecommunications in rural administrations and advice and to call the local community. Civil government laws contain detailed regulations for the administration of your community. The law is designed to ensure a specific structure in the administrations and is given relatively little room in the law to compromise those principles. For example, only telecommunication devices can be used for local government meetings if local distances are severe or difficult to transport. The bill assumes that there will be additional reasons for allowing the use of telecommunications as has now been done in the General Assembly. In times of emergency, such as natural disasters or epidemics, it is important that rural governments can respond quickly to challenging situations. They know how it is to make it difficult for a government or to mention on its roads to enforce certain aspects of the local government in the administration of the company. Clearly, such a situation may delay naturally and the necessary administration of the community, as well as the possibility of uncertainty about the legitimateness of the decision-making of the rural government, if it is disfellowshipped from existing formalities. Companies play a key role in terms of public protection. Clearly, local government laws today do not provide sufficient flexibility to cope with unusual situations. Yet, as I said earlier, a significant emergency is being taken to 131. gr. County government law, as it is today, where local government agencies are authorized to appoint a local manager or to hide the local government of a neighboring community to take control of a community where rural government is disabled because of a medical emergency. It is evident, however, that such an arrangement includes significant intervention in the administration of rural society and democratic rights of certain elected government officials. Then there is no need to be that rural control is out - of - date, despite a medical emergency. In order to ensure that the community's activities continue as normal as possible despite unusual circumstances, only rural management may be authorized to deviate from the individual aspects of the local government, such as they are now, during such conditions to ensure or facilitate functioning. However, it is reasonable to believe that a secretary's authorization is fundamental to such anomalies, having agreed with the Icelandic Community partner, but that further implementation is advisable to each department administration, although the Ministry can provide guidance on the application of this authority in consultation with the relationship. In other words, the bill suggests that a minister can authorize a local government to determine an abnormality from a meeting vagina and a standard frame within the countryside. Therefore, the bill presents this change to 131. g. Substitution that the minister of the local government can provide individual rural society, where there is a state of emergency, either certain rural groups or all rural groups, authority to coordinate their administration so that certain rural laws are removed for up to four months at a time. The arrangement for up to four months is already 131. Since there is already a limit of time in the law, there is no longer enough variation to reach longer than four months, and this would need to be repeated if the need was longer. It is not stated in the bill section on which such a decision can be reached by the national law code, but it may affect the situation in each case. It can be assumed that most of the laws of the law concerning meetings and judicial hearings should be considered, e.g. on the submission of annual accounts and financial plans. Or it might be considered to temporarily withdraw from practices within the administrations, such as a switch between local committees and government policies to the complete payment of power. It is expected that the directive will be part of the Ministry's Response Programme, and that the Ministry will take special note of the Order when the P.A. unit has been activated. It may then be considered on the request of an emergency society and it is also assumed that the Ministry will seek the position of the European Union of rural society before deciding which rules the government law needs to temporarily dissociate. A minister's decision should be considered to refer to a unique rural society, many rural areas, or all of the rural areas of the country. Therefore, it is important that, in the decision of a minister, the members of the community will be established as to which they have the authority to choose, as well as in a clear way the scope of the situation in which the government or the local government is granted by a secretary's decision to deviate from local government law. Then the decision should be temporary and can last for four months, as previously said. An emergency situation longer than four months is needed to make a second decision to extend the authority of a government to disseminate local government laws. The decision takes effect upon its release in the Control Department, and it is already under the terms of that treatment in the Treaty. It is important to note that in a bill that the Minister intends to submit to the spring Parliament for the change in rural government laws and the income-createment laws include: Delegated to rural governments to provide telecommunications and various other forms of variation from the principles of the law on the administrative arrangement. That bill, in order to be shot into, has to be connected even. changes and experimental projects together with a local partner, a recent partnership. However, the bill mentioned here is presented here to deal with emergency situations caused by the Covid-19 virus disease is in all essentially consistent with the focus of that bill. The bill does not have a constitution or an international commitment, and the bill will not have a cost for state funds or rural communities. The bill is employed in consultation with the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs and the European Union. As mentioned earlier, the Environment and Transport Committee provides the bill. I've traced the bill and presented it to the council and suggested that it be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u36	A respectable president. Admittedly, it is necessary to act quickly and promptly at the end of a good point that is presented in this matter. The matter is said to be a set set set step, but a minister's authority is not limited to actually departing all aspects of the local government, despite the fact that the report lists the reasons for causing problems that are predictable. I think it is relatively obvious that when it comes to such authority as a minister and actually expedient in the authority of a minister, we take rather careful steps to the ground and ask a minister to be able to depart from certain branches in a particular section instead of all the rural laws as they do. They're kind of the constitution of the unit administration phase. I also have some minor problems with a general understanding of this. When a minister is authorized to compromise legal requirements and then a decision is made, on what legal authority is such a decision taken? Exception has been given from conforming to ordinances, but some decisions must be based on law. This is a very important case. Like what? In his discussion of history, a senator may comment on the situation in each case. However, the report lists cases that are predictable in the face of trouble. Therefore, I do not understand why it is necessary for a minister to be authorized, in effect, to deviate from all the terms of local government law as they take the lead in these particular cases that are listed; telecommunications, annual accounts, and the like.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u37	A respectable president. It is by no means that my authority is being proposed to disseminate all aspects of rural government law. It is authorized by a minister to decide that a rural government is permitted to temporarily deviate from its specific areas of government in the administration of rural society. There are a number of regulations in rural law that do not have much to do with rural control. They are involved in rural society, in form of annual accounts, and in some of these. All rural society establishes rules about government and meeting parks based on rural law and what is being done by the bill is allowing societies to change the rules so that decisions can be made in a different way than they now say.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u38	A respectable president. You see, this is a little fuzzy if you're just talking about the section on the government. Annual accounts and economics include e.g. in II. chapter, for which it is not authorized, yet it is requested to be removed. It's not too clear. According to the sounds, the local government may allow the government to deviate from certain aspects of the government, all of which are subject to that decision. County Minister may decide that this may be replaced by an arrangement for e.g. Together with rural society, with national democracy or with community decision-making. There is nothing to say, according to the sounds, that a minister cannot choose from all aspects of the government. If this is only to be limited to the management of rural society, then the report points to a second chapter that is a problem but is not part of the section for the management of rural society. Either the wording is not accurate enough or it is too extensive.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm going to repeat: The secretary can decide that a rural government is permitted. Communicate management is not permitted to make decisions about community unity. This document is not necessarily confined to a chapter. It has to do with the sources that are particularly relevant to decisions taken by a local government in the administration of the local community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u40	A respectable president. In such a time, many want to run to and fix things so that all things can go on walking. It is understandable and understandable to want to go there. Still, I wondered, " What is it? ' paritaprevir Dr. Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir can tell me whether she knows the example that a minister can make an invalid choice, give out permission to ignore current laws, and what effect this will have on the rights of the decisions established by society. Is this power that a minister can really receive by law from the Council? Has this been examined? I'd like to say, a respectable president, when it comes to our legal rights, which we Pirates love very much, that it is very important to be cautious and not give too rich permission to deviate from the rules that are also used to protect the rights of my share in rural governments and that this bill would be approved. Also, the bill does not find any sunset rules, so it is not expected to resolve these laws and make them take on the factors that must be taken into account, that they will correct only that meetingers can participate in telecommunications if necessary, etc. in clearly defined cases. So I want to ask you why. Senator: Does she know the example that a minister can really decide to eliminate undefined articles of the current law, whether that is temporary or not? Has it been determined in any way whether such a project would really stand up to our government and stand before courts would the decisions of the rural government be brought to justice?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u41	President. Thank you. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Asvardsdóttir countering. I'd like to reiterate that this is a state-of-the-art warrant for compromising specific regulations that the government can decide to use. I certainly realize that in some cases the situation might be that a local board meeting was not yet finished, called not at the same table, or some evidence would be submitted after a deadline, and then charges might arise because such a decision was illegal. The source presented here could explain such events. I should be better able to answer questions myself. If a senator were here to draw out an example of what the senator is wondering about, what might he do? I think I know a lot of local jobs and the local government law, but I don't know what sort of cases you're talking about. Of course, it is assumed that the decision taken in the county government to make a predetermined deviation would be made. before making a decision based on the abnormality. Then I'd like to point out the law that is already present in rural law, on the authority to the Minister to appoint a special staff as an emergency.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u42	A respectable president. I think we've all read this law that's to be treated here. We already read it. A senator doesn't have to read it to me again. What I'm asking is, first, if there are any precedents for a minister's being granted the legal authority to decide to compromise laws that are not defined. What articles in this law will be disabled have not been defined, certainly in agreement with the local government. I'm aware of that, what. Senator, I know. I ask this because we have very clear instructions, e.g. The European Convention of Human Rights, which we were able to set up as examples, will discuss in what situations and in what way governments are permitted to deviate from the current rights of the state, current rights, in times of emergency. In this case too, I think that conditions might well be appropriate. It means that there is a real emergency, which I'd like to mean is not clearly defined in this bill, and that the rest, or variation, that is being made clear, understandable, and limited in time. Then I also mean this inhibitor here while it's not clearly defined, i.e. the sources that are being given ministers and more parts of this country's countryside, for we should keep in mind that that this is the larger part that all equals to decisions. If we're going to give more part of the local government and minister the authority to compromise the local government law, let's at least not specify which articles on the local government are we talking about. And then we can be talking. Of course, we support the ability of the rural governments to continue working. [[The president calls.]] But we're asking that it be specified what a menu is available for local administrations in case of compromising local government laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I'm not a lawyer in that I can pick examples from other laws. But I'd like to reiterate that this is a cabinet minister granted in consultation with the European Union to provide authority to local authorities, it is not a cabinet minister and rural government that decides the law together. [[Up front.]] The question was very clear. A senator like this was some mix between individual local governments and Ministers what was decided. These are separate decisions, one of the Ministers, one of the members of the local community. There may be differences between rural communities in the degree of variation in the fact that no two rural communities are alike in this country. [[For example: Are they defined?]] These events are not defined because neither I nor anyone else are trusting to define what might arise in an emergency, as should have been evident in a more pronounced public health situation during the winter, including the U.S.A. In order to compromise the common order of competition and other factors, we have to obtain permission, say in communication. According to my knowledge of local government law, I don't see this danger here. To me, this is a very good deal. Another criticism I've heard about this bill is the opposite, assuming that a decision needs to be over-reacted to be made that must be made quite quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u44	A respectable president. An authority does not see the danger, but at the same time a prominent person does not see the solution, for the solution in the bill is simply giving ministers the opportunity to be able to deviate from all aspects of local government law. That's quite broad authority to deviate from local government laws due to a medical emergency. The bill's report discusses the basis for this, public defence recommendations, by permission of the president: To be able to respond to that recommendation without the threat of decision-making within the rural administration system There is a reason to clear up telecommunications in rural administrations and advice and to name rural society. This is a list of events that need to be addressed. The solution is not to say: All right, we may just be able to take away some of the rural union rules and the main organizational instruments, etc. Who knows? In some respects, rural law can be considered a local constitution. It contains formality in the administration board, and there is a discussion of limitation of authority, such as duties and financial obligations, the introduction of public and surveillance. The bill's report also states: It is assumed that the directive will be part of the Ministry's Response Programme, and that the Ministry will take special care of the Order when the P.R. unit's emergency levels have been activated. However, the adjustment proposal is about an emergency that may well be interpreted in a larger way. Although the aim is to secure functional rural management in an emergency situation, it cannot be suggested that all aspects of the government can be excluded or that they can only set the conditions for emergencies. In the present situation, there is a predictable problem, and the solution to the problem is not a general authority to compromise laws that are irrelevant to the problem. It is in such a situation that we need to hold our heads and resolve matters in a balanced way. We must not use a crisis as an excuse for violating laws and rules, for while existing governments do not misuse the authority given in this bill to replace local government regulations due to emergency conditions, there is human weakness, so from time to time, Trump or Thatcher uses the resources for other works than they were intended. Although we can't see the danger today, these laws are set without time, they come to work for the next government and the next one, etc. if nothing has to be done. It would also be possible to list a long list of people from human history who have used the law just to justify what is written there. Lots of examples. The leaders of the bill are fine. Of course, telecommunications at the local level should be possible, and we were just agreeing on it earlier today regarding the council. It did not take long, and it was a very pointed solution to that problem. This does not mean that the solution is to give a minister permission to disintegrate any of the local government laws. Why should e.g. granting Ministers permission to dissipate XII's directives. Are you in charge of a unit unity? It's possible. No one in his right mind would think that. But we are talking about situations in which people, not knowingly, in an emergency might make strange decisions. We all know what the will of the current government is, for example, ... abouta unitingmate. Would it be slowly under the cover of an emergency to unite communities? There'd be no doubt a huge stir, a court case, but the situation would be over. However, in discussions with the environmental and transport committee on whether the committee should deliver the case, it was not considered whether we could predict the response to an unpredictable emergency. But that's not what we're talking about here. We are not talking about some unforeseen future emergency. We're talking about the current emergency that needs to be solved. That crisis includes a predictable problem, and in the context of a rural government law, the solution to the problem of being targeted. We'll see exactly what this problem is, and they'll be pointed out in the report. The solution is at least as pointed as we can at the time we have to work this case. So I've been trying to make some adjustments and have sent it to several members of the committee, the chairman of the Committee, and others to see how the matter can be handled slightly, only more pointedly. This is two ways, on the one hand, an adjustment proposal that allows for temporary deviation from the listed areas of government law, not merely to describe the state of the State, and there is no list of the regulations that are involved, which do not tell everyone. However, if the council fails to accept this limitation, it is a subsidiary proposal to limit at least The time of the adjustment presented here. At least they apply only to today's crisis. Once it has passed, the time of these changes will be over. We'll have to make some more general adjustments because of some unexpected emergencys that we might imagine in the future, but the case could at least get a good political treatment and reviews from all sources. A respectable president. A medical emergency cannot be a reason for compromising laws and regulations. If something is, then, the law and rule are much more important in an emergency situation to protect the rights of the citizens under the pretext of an emergency in order to protect the baseline democracies and to prevent misuse of power, we want the government to make the necessary decisions and take decisive action to cope with distress. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] But we also want our rights as citizens of a democratic society to be respected. This does not involve any accusation against the well - thought - out hands of the present government, but as I said earlier, it is all too often and too regularly that people get to power, which misuses their own facilities by means of the hand - to - hand tools and tools. So it is our job to make sure that such devices and tools are not available. We do not need to give this vast source. It is treacherous. Just as there is no way to predict the exact problem faced by an emergency, it is not easy to visualize how this gap in the law can be used, how to misuse this vast authority. But the possibility is clearly there. That's what's the problem. However, we can see what the solutions are, and we have already seen what adjustments are needed. In that case, we simply give permission to deviate from regulations that concern the problems, i.e. that people who are affected can't make decisions at a meeting of local government, they don't have a vote at telecommunications, etc., they're allowed to shorten the time of a lawsuit, and they're allowed to deviate from various terms listed in the report. These chapters and provisions are reviewed and suggested that if we are to provide such a broad source of information, it is first limited to specific regulations and second, at least with limited time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u45	A respectable president. This bill for law is to provide specific permission to local authorities, seek permission to change from the local government regulations in terms of their agreement for e.g. how meetings are put in place. I can't see this danger, because on local government law, each government builds its own agreement or community release. Civil authorities need to be supportive of local government laws. They have a body of conferences, a form of meetings and other things, how it's done in that particular country society. Then I'd like to ask. A senator whether he doesn't think it's also defending a smaller part of the county government by doing so, that he can be involved, that everyone can always participate in the meetings of the community which they can build on that rural government law. I would also like to pray. A senator's argument for more solid evidence is that this is a whole law based on a further hundred articles and several dozens of chapters, how on earth they are taken out of contact with this single sentence in this article of the bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u46	A respectable president. It certainly is quite farfetched. The community needs to pray to be able to depart from certain measures of local government law, but it is not limited to the terms of the government can ask for permission to be removed. As a result, a community might ask to step aside, e.g. an article on the unity of your community. Certainly a minister would have to agree with that, but it would have been authorized to deviate from that chapter. And who knows, you could enter one unit. It is also possible in a state of emergency, when community control is out of operation, to let neighboring units handle the government of neighboring society, and that's when only two rural communities are united, that's just a decision that's been made. [[Up front.]] That's if the government's out of work, yes. The article in this chapter on mutual unity cannot be excluded. That's not possible. It's possible, then, to deviate from the chapter on the town council and the like, all of it. It is absolutely unnecessary when we know what the problems are about a meeting vagina, being able to participate in telecommunications, short notice booking and making short notice decisions, etc., giving the authority to compromise all aspects of the government. When you read the letter of that suggestion, you can understand it that way. It's just that way. If the point is to make room for a finder and telecommunications, etc. then we'll count it out. A rural government may request to compromise the requirements for a meeting park and telecommunications, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u47	A respectable president. It is my understanding of these changes that it is not to make sure that the government could wish to deviate from its specific sections or branches, not at all. It is being faced with specific circumstances, specific aspects of the rural administration system, in order to ensure that rural government is functioning under emergency conditions. Then there must be the reasons or situations that can arise in the agreed rural administration of each unit. Yes, because they agree on local government laws. [[Up front.]] It is not to conclude that some branch government law can be avoided. [[Up front.]] At least that's my understanding. This is not a direct source. Rather, it is about the construction of a municipal government that will never be functional and will never be functional unless it is organized to the greater part of a rural government or some particular number. They cannot avoid it. Let's just say there are seven members of the county government, and there are four people missing, she's not functioning. There is no need to compromise. A rural government can't apply to being excluded from the 45th floor. Substitute government law. It just can't be done, not according to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u48	A respectable president. I think I'm realizing why this misunderstanding is going on between us. The bill is presented with one objective that may be trying to describe in talks and answers, but the text of the bill simply says everything else. The text of the bill can be understood in a completely different way. There are exactly certain laws and chapters of rural government to meet the goals being listed in the bill's report. If this is to be achieved, certain articles, paragraphs, or sentences in the Law must be replaced. It's just that way. They're excepting specific local government laws. I don't know which laws are not paragraphs, paragraphs, and numbers, and all that is in rural law, anything else in rural politics that can be separated from that which is not the law itself. That's where I think the misunderstanding is. This text says a proposed rural government law to the management of rural society to ensure that the government is functioning in the same way as the government. Like what? A senator points to the greater part... [[Decisions of the government to control.]] Yes, there are some things to consider that we are in the company's administration, full of regulations about this. Most of the regulations apply in some way to the way rural society is controlled in one way or another. Hence, it is incredibly inaccurate and completely inaccurate, in effect, to try to guess what a legal paragraph is or which paragraph or number is the number. Is this true of the company's administration or not? Could I make it out of this, or could I not? Instead, it is simply to specify: It is this article, this chapter, in order to prevent misunderstandings that could arise about other articles that someone might at some point in a stranger's future think to compromise on the possibility that he can. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u49	The president asks why. Senators to watch out for speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u50	Mr. President. We'll discuss a change in rural administration laws, a bill coming from an environment and transport committee. It is to respond to requests from the rural communities because of the condition that exists today because of the crown virus. People are trying to avoid getting too much meeting and passing the virus between them. This is being responded by adding a law, paragraph, to Article 131. I'm on the environment and transport board, and I'm on this bill, but, of course, I have some comments, so I'd like to ask myself a few questions here. Especially do I feel, and I have long felt that the lyrics should be clear and free of any phrase that I find in many places. It's not anything new at all. The law that's shooting in there makes me feel that there's a few things I don't know why they're doing this. Then I'm going to mean the wording to make sure that the country government is functional. I don't think that's necessary. It follows in my opinion, in my opinion, there is an emergency, and then this source is activated. I don't think there's any reason why this is to make sure that the government is functioning. I'm sure it's and it's obvious that it is. Especially is this so, though, at the end of the sentence, which says that this is a matter of making a decision. I also feel that it does. Or for who else? A body that's supposed to have a relationship with Icelandic society is also something that bothers me. First, it would always be in such a way that they would communicate with each other. Of course, it depends on the urgency of the crisis, how soon it should be. If it is, as it is now, some days or weeks, it is, of course, effective, but it can come up more quickly, and then there may be no time for such consultation. To fulfill the law, a minister would need to call or discuss the matter. I don't think that's necessary, too, because there are a few things in the law to make sure there are certain conditions at hand. First, there would have to be an emergency. That's the first condition. The emergency must also be so that such a change must be made, allowing a government to deviate from its specific requirements, as the law says, in terms of the emergency. In the present situation, the Korean virus prevents a person from meeting because of the risk of infection from meetings, perhaps larger meetings, and is authorized to have telecommunications. Of course, it is in the present situation, and it is easy to consult in the case we are talking about right now. This is the first thing I make comments about. I feel that the lawgiver is far too often using a phrase in law words, unnecessary sentences, unnecessary excerpts of good intentions and goals that are obvious. This is an example. I'm not going to go up against the bill, that's why, not at all, and I can cut down the text just the way it is, but I'm pointing it out. It's a punctuation that has become too common, that puts too much into words, and as a result, laws are often blurred and not merely blurred but designed to be misunderstood and possibly abused, so it is important to work at having lyrics clearly. What's an emergency? Of course, there is food and would likely be a minister's assessment, depending on how soon it was due. If it had to be very soon, it might be just a minister who would decide this, having a discussion that is understood there, but in other cases there would be a time for further consultation, possibly with a government, another minister, and even the council, if possible. This accounts for telecommunications. Of course, there may be many emergency situations that may call for such intervention, although I may not have the examples in front of me or have imaginations or imaginations to imagine what might arise so that some other provisions would be applied, outside telecommunications and so on. In fact, 131 are expected to do so. Article 3 of the Commission, which will be incompetent for emergencies, that the Minister is authorized to command it to the Commission or to hide a local government to take over the company's administration. Of course, it tells you what they're thinking about there, i.e. To ensure control of the community. The principle we are now talking about is also to help reduce the risk of such an event, that it must be entrusted to another rural society, or possibly to some manager, the power of the local government or any part of it. The article is being filled, in my opinion, even more. Of course, if an emergency happens very soon, things happen without being aware of it and people make decisions that they normally observe formalities, as the law expects and all the laws of course. It's called the necessity of breaking a law, which, of course, is known and we're not discussing it here. Maybe I'm gonna mention one more thing, about the P.R. In combined large rural areas, as is currently becoming more common and likely more common in the coming years, rural areas grow larger, even many urban areas. It is not as it was common to see that there was one large foundation in each rural society. There are now communities that have two, three, and may increase. There's one question in my mind about an emergency because the P.R. is also joining, the public defence committees over larger areas, they're more controlled, they're taking over large areas in many parts of the country, but not everywhere. The question arises: There may be a medical emergency, but the P.R. may be at the core or entirely in the second core and the sheriff, the chief of police, is in a whole other community, or entirely another community. The latest example is the avalanche. Of course, there is a need for social protection clearance in such cases to appoint the head of the P.R. There must be someone who will take control of public defences when it all ends, possible communication, and so forth. There would be a member, preferably a government officer, not a local member, who would take this government. He couldn't be in my opinion under the hat of a private or a community organization. The best thing to do would be the way it was in the old days, when there were step managers, they were out there, and they took on various roles when something came up. Now they are ahead of time, but the public defense system needs to be strengthened in this respect, the responsible parties in which communication ends, leads to completion, and the public defence committee is far away. Then someone must be able to take action, handle responsibility, and take control. I wanted to point this out on the way. This bill might have been followed, but there may be less urgency. An example of what we're talking about right now, a species from rural law, is e.g. The temporary laws of the government that have become rare today were common in the past. This is an example of abnormal legal treatments, and certainly it was highly disputed. But it is necessary to break the law. There's nothing like going through the council, but with certain conditions, there are similar examples, of course not similar, but similar. Another thing in this article, I've been talking about the emergency, it has to be there, is that it's tied to the company's administration. I understand the wording in this article. Perhaps the wording could be explained better than I read it so that the warrant is bound to the specific regulations in the rural administration of the company, not all the regulations 140 or so. It may be wrong if you read the article, but I read it this way. Maybe you can fix it or explain it better. This warrant is temporary, active for a certain period of time. It is a minister who makes the decision to agree with the European Union and the Minister of Ministers, of course, is responsible for that decision. If it turns out he's abusing it, going outside the mind, and taking advantage of some condition that is not really a crisis, of course he is responsible for the law on it. As I said here first, I agree with this bill, I don't make large comments with it, even if it's not finished, but I would like a different wording. You may be able to strengthen the wording, I'll figure it out. I hope that the bill will return to a committee for a discussion that will address the comments that have been made on the 1st. and the committee took an open look at the possibility of adapting it in some direction. I realize that the direction I'm speaking to is completely different from what I'm talking about. Pirata's members have been giving a speech chair, a different way, but these excellent tips can be considered. Marty's senators. You might consider taking any part of the law, considering that this section or this other section, these or other requirements. It is obvious, of course, that this has nothing to do with some of the local government laws and would never be there. But maybe it can be made clearer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u51	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill to correct the change in rural law, of a state of emergency in a rural society. I choose to come up here to explain some misunderstanding that I think is why. The official of the case, Liniika Anna Sævarsdóttir, is involved in the case by himself. It would be good to have some. After this talk, a senator answers me to see if there is any misunderstanding on the part of his life. A senator, in view of the language I've heard from her. As I understood why. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir tune, I think, is the only one we'll discuss at 9 p.m. Substitute administration, approval of administration, administration and a meeting vagina. It says, by permission of the President: The European Commission shall make a special agreement on the administration and administration of the Community and on the treatment of local matters. It will also include the conference structure and its committees. The agreement is passed on to the government of the community and shall be sent to the Ministry to confirm it. As I understood why. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative, she argues that the right to be given a minister, and, in fact, rural governments, only applies to this law in the rural government law. It is only authorized by the local authorities to request that they be disbarred from this approval that they are obliged to put under local government laws. But it's just not that, Mr. Honorable President, and it's very clear in the report with the bill, by permission of the president: The bill presents this change at 131 st. Substitution that the Minister of local government can provide individual rural communities with emergency conditions, e.g. By natural disasters, or by any community, permission to coordinate their administration so that certain rural laws are removed for up to four months. It is not stated in the bill section on which such a decision can be achieved [...] In other words, not an approved law, but a law. We're not talking about any approved or convergence established by local governments. We're talking rural law. It is stated in the report that there is no rules, no rules, to what laws, are being referred to. The only conditions that need to be met are an emergency, which is not further defined, but that it is to ensure that rural management is functional in emergencies and to facilitate decision-making. There are various laws on how to get the smaller part, about his right to be informed about the decisions that the greater part will take, about his right to communicate. But there is no longer any interference. That's the danger, huh? A senator we're referring to. There is no limit to the specific provision to replace. Certainly this is done by local administration decision and certainly by a minister's decision, but there is no other emergency inhibitor there to prevent it. Now, I'm not trying to promote in any way the current platoon minister, but this law has no time limit. It doesn't say: We now have a quick fix because we don't have time to settle it better, define exactly what we want to give ministers and rural governments or a greater part of rural governments authority to do. All right. But there's no set of sunset rules in this bill. There's nothing to say: After three months, after six months, we're going to have a much better definition of the important democracy that applies to our local government, on the rights of the smaller part, on the arrival of the public, on the democracy. All of this is found in rural law. It is very clear in the report that the terms of the local government laws involved in the control of rural governments, not those approved, not 9 g. It would have to be said that rural governments are temporarily allowed to deviate from certain areas of government that are defined by the law on rural governments. If that is the case, there is much more to it than that. A senator thinks this bill does. But it's not. As I came in earlier, it is clear in the report that this is part of the local government law. This isn't part of the local government. Here we are talking about the entire rural government laws and how they are used to control the rural communities. There are some things that happen there, a respectable president. And there is no danger of doing so, even though this may not be the case at present. Transport and rural Ministers and all the rest of the country's rural administrations, undermined by the presence of smaller parts in emergency management, shutting down the election for local administration, the right being elected to the countryside, that the number of local government officials were suddenly wiped out. All of this is on the table in the bill. We wish for a crisis when it comes to dealing with an emergency and making sure that we do not set up laws for the future that can have a dramatic destruction on the democracy in our country. That's what we're asking for. We certainly do not want to interfere with the necessary and important measures to ensure that governments can continue to function, far from that point of view. We are just asking that things be done well, and our democracy be allowed to enjoy the doubt, even when there is much need.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u52	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Thorhl Ævarsdóttir Ávardótir speaking. I'm still farther off, because I realize in every fundamental difference in our understanding of the bill. When I refer to an article on the management and meeting society, I'm referring to a contract that each country society puts itself on, which basically explains what's really in the board. These approved articles are in the range of 60 to 5,90 articles from each member of the rural community, and it is quite well defined by mine as aware of what is involved in the administration of the community. It's about control and decision making, decisions about activities that need to be carried out in an emergency. This is about a state of emergency and a decision of variation can never last more than four months. So I want to ask you why. A senator whether or not she has studied the company's administration and meeting forces and what that means.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u53	A respectable president. Our fundamental understanding of things between us is that we are not authorized to deviate from these approved ones. We're giving you permission to deviate from this law, that's just a clientele. If we're going to give the local authorities permission to simply deviate from their approved areas, the conferences they've approved, etc., if we're to give them temporary permission to disbarrent, this is where it stands, temporary permission from the approved communities, as further stated in local law, but it doesn't exist here. It stands for the specific requirements, i.e. law code, law code of local government law. So the report, as I mentioned in my speech, shows that it is not stated the legal aspects of rural government law being granted permission to give an exception. That's the problem. It's not about me opposing that the country's countryside can temporarily decide to step away from the ways of meeting. I can totally see the perplexing evidence for that. I cannot see a grammatical argument that the government decides that a minister is authorized to temporarily replace every law in the countryside. It's just very clear. He certainly needs to list them. Perhaps these ministers do not decide, but another future minister may feel that it is a delay in making a decision that the lesser part must be informed of the priority of the decision. There's something that you could just take out, e.g. How many platoon members are in each country society. It could be taken out also according to these laws. It is very clear that the Lawgiver's purpose to give a minister permission to replace undefined numbers and entirely undefined forms of law on rural governments is not approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I cannot begin to understand how the decision to make a government might involve deciding that smaller things or more are involved in the decision. I understand this so that the law of making decisions, of time and place, of meetings, and of events that are precisely set in the conference parks can be set aside. It's the connection I see with the conference created because there are more detailed articles in the rural regime. Farmers have the authority to decide on a number of different instruments, and that's why I've been referring to them as approved. I came here for a second time just to mention that I view it as a request that the committee discuss the matter. I'll take it as a matter of course, if it's possible to explain more fully the discussion presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u55	A respectable president. I want to thank you. In order to explain this, a member of the council before the counter and rejoices that the matter will be accepted into a committee because of the urgency of the occasion. Clearly, a senator is not speaking the same language. Then it may be important to have a conversation about the content and content of this article, especially when it is equally important to have the rights and laws we discuss here. Now's the time. A senator has repeated to me several times the contents of this law, and I feel compelled to repeat once more. A senator what the report says with the bill. It shows that a minister can grant a certain unit government ◯... permission to conduct his administration so that certain aspects of the government can be disfellowshipped for up to four months. It is not stated in the bill section on which such a decision can be reached by the national law code, but it may affect the situation in each case. It can be assumed that most of the laws of the law concerning meetings and judicial hearings should be considered, e.g. on the submission of annual accounts and financial plans. It might also be considered to temporarily withdraw from operations within the administrations and [...] to the complete payment of their contributions. These are all excellent ideas. Why, then, is that not simply clear? It's just giving a minister a clean table that he can write on what he wants, what rural governments can write on what they want to detract from these laws. This is not properly defined. Rather, let us list in the law what we are fit to do, what provisions we are prepared to offer in a crisis situation, but do not give absolutely unlimited permission to deviate from the local government laws as expected by the present expression. It is very clear that it is not determined which laws can be unmounted by this bill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u56	President. What we are worried about is a person of freckles who will come to sit on a minister's chair. We know it's the last terms, I think at least that it was during the season of 2013's campaign, in 2013,2016, decided on his own uniqueness in the highest. Secretary of State, then sending a letter to Brussels, to break up Iceland's transport to the European Union. Who would have believed that before that, a minister would become so aggressive after that process was started with the council's resolution? A minister tried to change that council error proposal, and when he could not, what did he do? He started off with just one, sent a letter, and said, "We've stopped talking about business. Of course, there will be some fierce ministers from time to time who would like to be hired. We know this and fear the steps. It's a close example in Iceland. All we're asking for is that the purpose of this law be met. This can be done by accepting a proposal as a question. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has proposed a change in the bill, and it has been declared at the Committee for Commission review. It's just a matter of determining which sources this is. Is that a difficult thing to do? No, it's not hard. The report shows that the bill was initiated because the local authorities said they needed a set amount of space to care for their meetings. That's what needs to be done. So let's do it, do what we have to do, and establish it so that the authority sources are not so vast, and don't offer any possible government that we can't foresee, into the future. That's the first thing, cutting it down. If this is a good decision, it does not necessarily have to be timed, but if you are not going to take the time now to determine what privileges a minister has to authorize the government to deviate from the local law, you must set sunset rules. Then there must be a time reduction for the specific restrictions we are facing because of the crown virus so that at the same time you can find out exactly what is needed to make this work and correct it. It is understandable that humans want to finish it quickly, but the same can be done at the same time because they will have to be put in a sunset dress or they will only be temporary. It could be done. If they don't want to, say they don't have time for it, and don't want a set of sunset rules, they're sending in some very broad source of information that we can't see today how to abuse because there's such a short time to do this well. We will again and again have some freckled ministers who seek ways to interpret the law in their own way. That's what they did. The Supreme Committee. The minister of state requested a report on the worth of the council's conclusions, using a note to justify passing the council that no one would expect until he did. That's exactly what we're warning you. Let's just go to the report. On page 18. 2 is a point that could easily be interpreted by a future fierce secretary of transportation who wants to do things his own way and is dealing with a rural government that wants to do something that she cannot do otherwise. Let's see how you could misbehavior this or just get an interpretation and start. Who will stop the minister then? Let's see what you can do. It says, by permission of the President: The bill presents this change at 131 st. Substitution that the Minister of local government can provide individual rural communities with emergency conditions, e.g. By natural disasters, or by any community, permission to coordinate their administration so that certain rural laws are removed for up to four months. It is not stated in the bill section on which such a decision can be reached by the national law code, but it may interfere with the situation in each case. No further explanation can be made regarding the circumstances that could be followed, what will be involved. Then it can only be interpreted, and a minister has had the opportunity to interpret the situation and to evaluate according to his own head for which he might have a legal opinion. As former prime minister, Oddsson Odddsson, mentioned in his day, it is very cheap to order a memo or a legal note, which is repeated. You can order a legal opinion to support your case. Come on, I think, with President's permission: It can be assumed that most of the laws of the law concerning meetings and judicial hearings should be considered, e.g. on terms of submission of annual accounts and budget schemes. The main point is the subject, but something else might be considered that we do not know. There's room opening again. Come on, with president's permission: ▪ It might also be considered to temporarily withdraw from practices within the administrations, such as the switch between committees and the rules for the office of power to the complete payment. The majority of these circumstances could be used to take on greater power, have power over the workforce between committees, and the rules for the office of power for the complete payment of it. I'm not entirely new in politics, and I know that there are all kinds of things that can be done when it comes to making power, making complete payment, etc. - I can see why. paritaprevir Poor Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdóttir's gonna come up and answer this, she knows the local law better than I do. It would be nice to get the answer, because right now I see one possibility that might be possible. It would be fine if it were. In the process of shooting, a senator may close the possibilities I am referring to. Come on, with president's permission: It is assumed that the directive will be part of the Ministry's Response Programme, and that the Ministry will take special care of the Order when the P.R. unit's emergency levels have been activated. This is to say that the P.R. emergency range does not have to be activated to activate this directive. This is especially so, although it is not the case. - Hv. paritaprevir Poor Anna Sævarsdóttir shakes her head, but I can't see how this could be interpreted differently. I'm sure it will be very easy to find a lawyer who says: Yes. Because it says that when the P.R. crisis has been activated, it can, of course, be taken into consideration when it is not. Then the law can be considered on the request of a local community so that a community can ask for it, as mentioned above, where there is an emergency. The Ministry is also expected to take the stand of the European Union. Then we'll come back to see the price of consultation with the European Union. That's the process. The minister decides, and in this case it may be at the request of the company, and he must seek a stand. That's what we're talking about. When people read a song that needs to be consulted by the European Union, they think that consultation is something they do not agree with. That's what I thought before I learned it from house to house. It does not mean that everyone will come to an actual decision making. They just get to the case and put their stand on the table. She does not need to be taken into account. A minister does not have to consider the European Union's position on his decision. Then it's just clearly said, in the bill itself it's about consultation, and here it is very clear what consultation means. The Council is to seek the European Union's position before deciding on the rules of local government to be temporarily removed. Only by reading through this very short bill, two pages, you can immediately see the possibilities. I know a little about the local government, but I can see the immediate possibility that a minister of freckles would have much room to interpret it according to his own. The evidence fears that a minister has allowed himself to have a legal opinion that he does not have to respect the will of the Council when it comes to the largest international application of Iceland. Let us not think that aggressive ministers will not be able to take advantage of these gaps in order to get away with what they want or get away with things we don't want them to get away with, as well as arbitrary decisions when it comes to the level of government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'm certainly not a lawyer, but I view an emergency as a fundamental premise for the effect of this law, which is the headline of this article, an emergency situation in a rural society, to be held. Hv. The senator read out a law to consider a public defense situation and is obliged to see if there is a need for abnormalities but not vice versa. I reiterate that I view it as the obligation of the Minister to look to see if there is a need for a disconcerting issues because an emergency situation has been established. With regard to the work-change between committees, I don't understand how the change in action between committees, the possible shift between the committees from one committee to another, the balance of power in emergency management can affect the balance of action. I'm asking for more support from that. Similarly, complete payment is usually used to speed up procedures where committees are authorized to resolve e.g. A organizational or patent case instead of having to take place both in the community and perhaps in the community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u58	President. I know this in here, just changing one or two committees from one committee to another changes the balance of power. This changes how the decisions made by the Committee can be justified. This changes what has been negotiated before. It changes what's finally done. It all matters in political context.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u59	It has nothing to do with the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u60	No, but there's a warrant. I'm just saying, it's possible. When this is the case, there are many things that can't be done that could otherwise be done. In this case, the power will be increased to those with it, i.e. more power is taking place in the greater part to do all kinds of things in this respect. Hv. A senator knows the local government law better than I do and how it's practiced. I'm just seeing a shot at this right away. I can see the possibility when talking about the switch between committees that it can be scurried and the rules for a power supply to the complete payment of the cases when they are being moved and given authority and that it is a minister, and then a greater part of a rural government that will eventually enforce this. It is a minister who employs, but then the local government gets the power, so this situation can arise. What about the other points I mentioned? This is very clear here on the fact that the P.A. unit has been activated, but it doesn't have to be a public emergency level, it's just set up. It could be another kind of emergency, that's what says in the lyrics of the law, it's spoken of in an emergency, to be in an emergency. There is no need to be a public emergency, there could be an economic emergency or an emergency in the countryside. Is it a medical emergency when a community has become severely committed that it is no longer functional or cannot fulfill all of its duties? Is that an emergency? Some might say that, it can be interpreted as an emergency. [[The president calls.]] What, then, must be done? In some way, the financial foundation of the community must be guaranteed. Need to activate? [[The president calls.]] Maybe that's what you need to do. Is it necessary to unite another country society that is richer? Maybe that's what you need to do. There are all kinds of options that are open, and we do not know how to abuse them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u61	The President reminds me of why. A member of the body is to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u62	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I don't see what local government law deviations from committees' orders. One is the order of committees, another is the work of committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u63	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u64	An emergency situation may not be defined specifically in this bill, but my awareness is an emergency in the public protection laws. That is one thing that I am quite ready to do, but to me, there is no doubt that an emergency is being said. However, there are special financial laws for rural society, and it clearly provides guidelines for the failure of rural society to work for financial status and how it is followed by rural society's handling of financial partnerships and other activities that rural society needs to comply with. However, I find it very difficult to understand how a minister can get his policies out in an emergency society that is just as likely to be controlled by a government that comes from a completely different political group than the Minister - but could certainly be the same. [[Could be the same.]] As noted, this is also about consultations with the European Union and the total interest of rural society. Granted, there may be one community in an emergency, but it is equally likely that they will be more at the same time if there is a public defense situation in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u65	President. A senator says: "I don't quite see how this or that other thing can happen, and it may be that an emergency is not properly defined in these laws. So why don't we just define it? Clearly, the need for public protection is not entirely clear. Is that not true? There's one small thing I saw sitting there listening to the talks and reading the bill. I could tell that there was one clearly not well enough check. Can't we fix it? Hv. paritaprevir When Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson was on the committee, he observed the case as the committee discussed it at the outset. He's got a lot of comments. We're not doing this to be boring. We see a chance that this power will be abused. It may take some time to fix it, but certain factors can be fixed immediately. I sincerely hope that the committee will take what we are referring to a objective view. Just in times like this, when there's an emergency, you put laws in time pressure, and it's a principle to decision-making that when you have to make fast decisions you're making a mistake. We know that. Let's try to close most of our mistakes on grammatical terms, such as hooves. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has pointed out, and has set the setting of a sunset code so that this value will be up until August, with all indications that this crisis will occur at some point in July, and that it will only be possible to extend that time. Instead, let us work toward creating a better set of laws on this matter, which are less likely to be misused. When people make decisions in a hurry, they make mistakes, including the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u66	A respectable president. At first, I was just going to let my colleagues and party members, okay? Councilmen, to say what must be said about this matter. I agree with them. However, listening to the presentation of those who have participated in the conversation today from the other side, I could not sit on my side and I just have to talk about it. It's just sweet little Iceland and we have a government that's not that terrible. I'll admit that I've been at a council with worse governments, more specifically, during the last term. This government is rather powerless to me, but it's not exactly terrible, I wouldn't describe it that way, although it can certainly be mentioned a terrible thing as at least a terrible thing. one of the ex-fiancists. Minister did, but it was in the last term. Sometimes governments are terrible. Some politicians are disciplined. Sometimes they abuse their power, and they get away with it if they have legal grounds for it and even when they don't have it. This is repeated, with nothing new, has happened throughout the history of politics and history since the beginning of a written case, and is likely further back to the time we cannot read about in harmony with the nature of the case. Like what? My colleagues have mentioned it is not Porta's party against the objective of the matter. It's important and good, and it's fine, but it needs to be defined better. It's too open. There's just a perfectly grammatical argument and a reason to present them with criticism. This is not the first time the law is quickly set in the wake of an emergency. This is not the first time the law is put in a time shortage after an emergency has come, either here or anywhere else. It's always the same story, there's so much going to be an opening for as many as possible and then leave it behind, permanently in cases like this. The bill's language attracts my attention. It says that a unit administration is permitted to deviate from specific requirements, with the permission of the president, at the company administration to ensure that a rural government is functioning under emergency conditions and to facilitate decision-making in the first place. Some local government laws may make decision making more difficult. Company governments are power agencies. There is a limit to their authority, so there are a number of factors in rural government laws that are rather broad legal in 134 articles. It is important that these measures are in place to block the authority. Not everything is to be easy or simple. Some are supposed to be complicated and difficult for rural governments and all power institutions because they are power institutions. When it comes to making decisions, I am unproved. I believe that the intention of transport is to convey the idea that this is merely a thought to facilitate decision-making in an emergency. Okay, but it'd be nice to explain it a little bit better. The reason I wanted to mention this is because I listen to what I was doing. Congress continues to argue that this bill contains the permission of a Minister in consultation with the European Union to make exceptions to the law on rural governments. The paint I've heard today is, for example, saw that it was only a government of rural society. A respectable president. The law is called rural government law. It's all we've got to do with community control. It's kind of funny, more dignified President, to say this, but if you open a computer, a modern information device, select Control + F, and look for control, that's a word from the whole set to the end. As you can see by the name of this country, the government of the rural community is about the nature of the situation. To believe that it is a tribulation, or precision, that the bill refers only to the local government gives me reason to doubt that this is the case. The operators of the bill achieve their objective by encouraging this as well as appropriate for us as members of the body. In terms of the change, it is permanent. This is not a preliminary principle, in fact, in the various preliminary laws already in the Law, but this is just a change in regulations in the law. The bill's report shows that decisions made by a minister agree with the European Union to make exceptions to the law would only be valid for four months. I would legally suggest that it should be in the bill text itself rather than just a report. I don't think that's clear enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u67	It's in the law already.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u68	All right, all right, all right. A senator says it's already in the law, I'll take it. Whatever the case, I always find it boring how politicians repeatedly fall into the trap of thinking, " Now is a crisis, something must be extended, and some authority I mean is usually the case, and they trust the authorities automatically and too well, and they expect everyone else to trust them as well. ' Thus, over and over again, there are limits to authority in general. It is now possible to take a more dramatic example that is not relevant in Iceland. That is what happened in the United States, a country that has always put far more emphasis on authority than is ever done in Iceland. After the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the nation was in shock and sorrow. She was angry and needed to be reacted. There were laws called ◯USA Patriot Act◯, just to minimize those who would not support all the authority that was installed there. There were sun rules about what was absolutely necessary, only for the time it was necessary, etc. You know, it didn't. What remains to be seen is that it is most convenient for the authorities not to submit to the limitations of the previous authorities. That's always the way it is, that's the nature of power. Although I am not worried that this particular government will start to abuse this power in some terrible way, I can easily believe that the next one would. It would be in no way surprising to me that the next government, different from this one, would abuse this power completely wild and crazy and get away with it. Even if she did not get away with it, years would pass if she wanted to do so. There are a lot of rural areas in Iceland, but ministers only have one of the litigators. It also means that there are a lot of things in these laws that could possibly be abused. I can't say that in Reykjavík, park town, this rural society or the other country government is likely to want or feel that they need to be separated from the other and these laws in the law, but there are plenty of options in a legal section of 134 articles, the local government laws. There are a few things that my colleagues have been through, but I think it's worth a little going over. There's something here that seems to be a complete technicality, an obligation to hold a meeting, in the 14th paragraph. III. the section on a local board meeting. In the 15th. magazines on the field ministry and the advertisements of meetings. Anyone who has been in part involved in politics knows that power can be abused by the misuse of the rules around preaching and advertising of meetings. You can send the wrong schedule, do not send the data, keep you uninformed, keep you confused or change things with no advance. People abuse political power like this at the General Assembly, and I don't believe that it doesn't happen in the dozens of rural societys in Iceland. It would be naive to think so. Two. 17th .., on rationalization and votes, it says: ▪ During regional meetings, power dictates the outcome of matters. It's really good on me, but it's 1st. says: No conclusion can be drawn from the European Commission unless more than half of the local authorities are present at a meeting. A respectable president. That's exactly the kind of thing people want to make exceptions in an emergency. There may be perplexing reasons for this, but this needs to be done well. Therefore, the specificity of this bill has to be determined better. Here are the terms for conferences and the like. Meetings are not details; they are important in order to be traced back to decisions if there are conflicting factors, either of amateurs, corruptions, or clumsiness. If there are temporary exceptions, it can be abused. There's a whole chapter here, XI. Chapter, the management board of rural society. It's all thought about being limited to rural society. It's a matter of government. These are all things that can get in the way of an emergency, and that's why it's important that we get to the level of what we're about to put into law. I name 116. ... ofa teammateindiscriminate. I have no particular reason to believe that certain rural communities would be interested in getting rid of any specific rules. The problem is, this bill is too open. That's all. At the end of this, I'd like to say that even if these concerns are not true here and now in this case, under these circumstances, with this government and the communities that are here, we should not get accustomed to the general practice that in the event of an emergency or a state of temporary need to rush in and open up authority to the authorities in such ways. It's just a bad habit for them to be habitual. It is. It may be very important to react quickly and create some authority to cope with an emergency. We probably know it best from the collapse in Iceland, but we're not supposed to get lucky. We should not pretend that it is some fantasy for politicians to fail with the authority entrusted to them. It is the reality here, as has always been everywhere and always will be. It is naive, a respectable president, to think something else, to be loved in a fit. I'm gonna finish this right here. I hope the case is covered by a committee. Again, I give support to the goal of the bill. I just feel like there's something that needs to be done better, that's all.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-03-12-72.u69	President. I ran into a few other things. It is of interest that there is no sunset rules in this bill, in a bill that allows for these broad sources and their interpretation. At the end it says, with President's permission: It is important to note that in a bill that the Minister intends to submit to the spring council for the change in rural government law and the income-createment laws include: Delegated to rural governments to provide telecommunications and various other forms of variation from the principles of the law on the administrative arrangement. The bill presented here to deal with an emergency situation caused by the Covid-19 virus disease is essentially consistent with the focus of that bill. The local government minister is about to submit a bill that is basically in line with what we're accepting here, and this is being proposed to react to the Covid-19 virus, however, it should be left behind with complete change into the future. If this does not support the grammatical view that a temporary arrangement is set instead of leaving it this way, working quickly, and, in all likelihood, leaving mistakes, I do not know what to do.
