ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u1	Mr. President. These are the last financial laws of this government. Let's go over some things. This government has not been able to fulfill multiple promises of reform, and this has often been said by desperate people. This government repeatedly refuses to let the responsore of life agreements reach older citizens. This government leaves behind a child - reform system that is even worse than any other country in the North. This government had the Land Hospital in an emergency situation for Covid, but in Covid the government has a special requirement for hospital maintenance. But what has this government done? The government has dropped one third of the fishing expenditures and put in charge of the reduction of bank tax and the record charge of the big estate. The government has been sentenced to human rights violations, for screwing up an entire court, and in its last budget, it makes up only 0.1% of the environmental product and offers investment campaigns in which 85% of the work goes into men. [[The president calls.]] Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] This better be the last budget of this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u2	A respectable president. We're here to vote for next year's budget. State funds will be fired at a sum of over 320 billion dollars. tilted to respond to the effects of the crown virus and to protect the welfare at the same time. These are extensive measures to meet people, homes, and businesses because of loss of income and employment, the social activities used by children and their families, as well as measures to strengthen the social status of the elderly after the pandemic isolation. At the same time, we do not give up in protecting the welfare of our country. That is to add up to 100 nurses next year. We are strengthening the schools in the country that have been raising their rocks for the year. We're making a basic change in the insurance system, and so on. It is a pivotal financial law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u3	President. We take this vote in mind that there is more to this situation than there is to it. We suggest three adjustments, which, in fact, make certain adjustments in the financial bill. In one way, the biographies are needed for those on government contributions, unemployment income and pension, as well as for land hospitalisations, and the lack of staff to care for personal protection laws. These are three simple faulty fixes. But as I said, we do this vote, thinking that more is better than smaller, so we support various budgets, since expenses are not the problem right now. They are what it takes to help with the situation the way it is out here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u4	V.E.G. President. This budget has been defined as the nature of a pandemic crown virus, and it is also true of all the financial work and the discussion that took place here yesterday. A strong response to a more serious situation is reflected in the bill itself, where more than doubled in the wide range of budgetary expenses from the last budget. The changes are unusual in number and in money. 55 billion bucks. supplementary discussions confirm the strong response, the will and mental attitude, the government policy with vaccine purchases, hostilities, and other social support to people, communities, and institutions. Here, we are certainly putting up with each other and putting ourselves through this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u5	Mr. President. We now vote on budgets for 2021. The government is in the same position, especially because of its own actions. We repeatedly pointed out that the state funds had already become insurmountable long before Covid. This will not be spent by a single budget, but the government could take a far deeper measure of specific action for the families and companies with the most sensitive positions and less in general support that will be of no benefit in the employment industry. The government also needs to be realistic about how the people's prospects are affected because of their debt. There is a lack of a complete mind, a separation between temporary action and ideals to the next five, ten, twenty. The more part of the budget changes is often improved, but on the whole, I don't think the bill gives evidence of vision or counsel, so I seriously doubt that I can support the bill on a final tour.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u6	Mr. President. This bill puts Iceland record in the corner of state funds. We're taking a long shot as if it weren't for tomorrow. There is no profit, no saving to a vast angle. As an unexpected shock, the Central Party has supported needed action, but we never sign that older citizens are different people. The disrespect of the government against senior citizens is absolute. There will be elections soon, and no one will fail to know that government pets are infiltrated to buy votes. The media has always spoken to a government council. We're the only group that's got the most funded changes made. A complete sense of responsibility prevails among some here in the process of making changes, and after the election, it is indeed necessary to ask God to bless the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u7	Mr. President. I traced this conversation yesterday to the end of the year, which is now running into some 270 billion. The budget that we now vote for will be $320 billion. Do it now. We're playing a very bold game, and we're playing a very close game. That is why stealing is so important, and it is the resistance that is prepared in these funds. It's a drag based on a strong base of government funds. It is a government that was formed at the beginning of a ideal period to promote wood, promote welfare and health systems. She's guarding it. The sun is about to rise. It's not just the government, but it's really helped. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u8	President. An executive officer of the Generals arranged for a board of directors and board members for an open meeting to present their annual reports about one and a half months ago. It was clear at that open meeting that he needs more workers in the initiative research. He needs one employee next year and one more 2024. Why is this important? Yes, because his initiatives turn to that when the city arrives, and an agent to protect his rights to the administrations of the country, an agent can begin. But when a citizen is not a person's subject, as when the state's positions are offered or filled with state positions without advertisements, there's no fees or taxes without the law, there's forced urchins into people, without people knowing what right they have, an agent walks in and has a initiative study and adapts slowly to the administration of the country's administration. In the changing budget to the budget bill, half the status value should be set, which is good. [[The president calls.]] It's said it's temporary, but the idea is, and we have to remember it and keep it, that it stays in the next year, so these initiatives don't get into a box, as the agent said otherwise. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u9	A respectable president. These budgets we vote for here are marketed by the pandemic. We can see a angle that has not been seen before, but let it serve as a reminder to us forever, as a reminder that we could only, in a handsome way, accept the economic situation that came up for the pandemic where we have lived and paid off debts in the past few years. This limp is huge, 320 billion, with income less than 800 billion. Therefore, we are faced with a tremendous task of restoring sustainable development in the finance of the state and the government. But with strong resistance, which included: brings in the budgets that are going to be voted for, we lay the groundwork for the government to be sustainable again. I want to thank the Committee for your good work. It was well worked on a financial committee, a little time to change, and a big opinion. [[The president calls.]] Work may not be as easy as it has been.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u10	Mr. President. I'll agree with the highest. Secretary of finance and thanking the General for their outstanding success throughout this pandemic. When we agreed on the budget for this year, we did not see this pandemic before and what effect it has had on the economy of our society as well as on other societies. What we're about to do here today is money that reflects the strong infrastructure we have in our community and our determination to be able to resist the virus quickly so that the economy and society can rise quickly. I have full faith that by using the power of the money money, as we are doing with all our power, it will work very fast and well, because we are building on powerful infrastructures.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u11	A respectable president. We are about to vote on the sad budget of this government. The government has found out who's got wide banks. She has found out one group of people who are not to be paid, not even to get paid, but to receive 3.6%, nothing more, and they are the older citizens of this country. They don't get 50,000 bucks. tax and decrepit-employment monopoly. Who are those of this group? It's like the highest. The secretary of finance has said that they themselves are only a few individuals, but they cannot be ignored. These are people who are coming from disability to pension. They're people with reduced habitats, and the government's agreed to get only 90% of minimum pension. These people are the broad bottoms of this government. These are the people who aren't supposed to get a crown.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u12	Mr. President. V.E.G. Government and everybody what? Parliaments in this hall have admitted that when the pandemic is over, it is necessary to deal with the loss of an enterprise and to support business support. That's what's at the top. Government and what. However, members of the board of directors have failed to recognize the need to deal with the loss of homes and homes of those who have lost their jobs and have the highest financial burden in this professional crisis also need to fight. They need to respond to their loss of income far better than is done in this financial bill. The homes in this deep business crisis are a disgrace, and that's why I'm critical of the highest. Government and what. legislators for inability to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u13	Mr. President. It is already clear at the beginning of this discussion that the word we read is the word of the day. Of course, that is not strange, for we know that this will soon end, and then we need power to get to a normal source. The resistance the government offers could do for someone, not all of them, and not for those most in need. It is true that resistance and forethought are important for jobs and businesses but it is not to be forgotten that families, homes, and children also need to be looked out for. They also need to fight back. I'm afraid that if there's no better work in these budgets, our weakest groups will grow and we'll have little and no one, and it will cause disunity and damage in this society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u14	A respectable president. Who would have thought about a year ago, when we took a vote on the budget, that we were standing in this situation today? And I will say this word, There are unprecedented times, and these are without condemnation. The government has had the courage to start an enormous amount of injection for homes, companies, and society all so that everyone can fight back. What is the best example of dealing with the homes in the country? Yes, rural response has been quite successful in 2020. We have hoped for that, when a vaccine is coming, and an optimism to expect that we will reach the angle that is now given. It takes courage to do so. They need optimism about the economy and society, and we have it. I'd like to thank a budget and the General Assembly for taking it so fast and so fast that the financial bill of the human eras were in short supply.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u15	Mr. President. Here is a proposal for a temporary reduction in the value tax to the restaurant sector, to account for the extra tax they are being given to deliver from 11% to 6% for one year. There is no need to be large impact on the food field and can be said to have much to do with it; of course, tourists are gone, and widespread preventative measures have been taken that have taken particularly badly in these sectors. It's a simple operation. This is a quick action. It doesn't interfere with any system. It is simple and will help these companies reach a multi-talked interview when publishing, hopefully in the early part of the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u16	Mr. President. We are in the midst of a deep business crisis and it requires further action for a company in the country. This is a suggestion consisting of a wise, temporary reduction in insurance fees, so that by 2021 insurance will be free of charge from dictators and small companies, but it also gives a considerable share in other companies in the country. This reduction would encourage the growth of jobs, help with the resistance, and encourage all of us to continue, but it would also contribute to increased equality and competitive competition and prevent the risk of contracting a crisis. Therefore, I encourage a world of Congress to support this operation and help our smallest business to start in the new year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u17	Mr. President. We're discussing the number 2 in a restoration proposal. It assumes that for a year, a half-bought of insurance will be paid on account of the employees hired by the unemployment board. There is no question about how serious the situation is, how tragic the unemployment is, how urgent it is that as many as possible get to work as soon as possible. This will lead to that, making it easier for them to hire people, to hire people who truly need them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u18	President. The proposal we vote for here is very important that I steal earlier and plan to go in few words over it again, but it's arousal that we temporarily reduce insurance fees and put it out with the peasants and the smallest companies. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Other companies will also enjoy it, and this will lead to the development of the country's professional life of nearly more intense resistance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u19	Mr. President. Just because it's soft. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson has not yet drawn this attention, so, of course, taxes in the country, the income side of the budget, are not determined by the terms we are voting on here, but by the laws of merit taxation, insurance, and other such taxes. This, of course, underscores the sad fact that the proposals of the management force in this team are complete showliness. If they really wanted to make changes in insurance, money tax, or so on, they wouldn't make any comments to these terms but to the laws that apply to their taxes. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u20	Mr. President. I vote against this proposal and other suggestions that are more like this. In my opinion, it's not a responsible suggestion. That's exactly what I'm talking about. is subject to automatic fluctuations and helps us to cope with such economic crises. So I don't think this is the way for us to go through this crisis and therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u21	Mr. President. As we noted earlier in my presentation, all the changes made by the Central Party are fully funded, very important in the huge angle we see today at the government fund. Here it is suggested that the modern construction of the Land Bank of East Harbor will be sold and the value of the state's funds in the form of interest, and no need for this building owned by the State on the most expensive property of the country when banking services are changed and jobs have declined considerably. In addition, there's an increase in the insurance bill. It is very important, as we know, to strengthen our companies during difficult times so that they do not come to the surface and turn away.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u22	Mr. President. We in the United States support the 1st team on this Senate document. But because of the words of the Speaker of the Independence Party earlier, I'd just like to remind you that on the day of battle. The Economic and Business Committee is working with a bandorm on the insurance bill. Under those circumstances, the majority of the items are also suggested. When things are done in this order, we have no choice but to talk about our expenses, and that is the highest possible option. Government and government, too, in terms of insurance bills. But the premiums come later in telorism after the weekend.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u23	Mr. President. I'm gonna be in a place like what I'm supposed to be. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir and protest for what to say. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of an Year on the insurance bill, that's what it's all about. It is possible to accept a new proposal to the budget and then agree to the change of other laws. We don't need a lesson from what? A senator on this matter. But first, what? A senator specifically mentioned outward appearances as being perfect for the independents to walk to the nation at regular intervals talking about their support of taxes and then these blessed senators have many opportunities to reduce taxes, such as insurance fees to a small and medium-sized company, and it is canceled. It's showy. If you support the reduction, why don't you support this proposal? There are a number of suggestions here from a number of categories that are subject to reducing the budget of an enterprise. Who's got a show, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u24	President is not going to try to decide.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u25	A respectable president. We're here to vote for certain percentage increases on charges. We wanted to vote for a couple of teams over there, and it looks like there's been a mistake, I guess, in their deliveries, and now we're paying a vote for 114,5,23/4,1.41,2.29, where we're on the Red. But I wanted to find out about the 114.51.16 and 114.17.1.17. That we're also on red there, even though there's gonna be a vote in one bazaar after. We're going to get yellow all over the joint. So notice, even if we pay yellow for these two joints, we're still on red. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u26	Then it's clear, and we should be able to complete the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u27	Mr. President. As interested persons, even interested persons, we are not given much credit to a department of state affairs in this bill. This is normal according to the circumstances. In some areas, even adjustments are not made enough, as some of the suggestions here suggest. This proposal is an attempt to maintain, which must be considered especially reasonable, in view of the fact that in these legal requirements, there are still some requirements for some institutions that play an important role in their service to the common people. This is what we're here for at the exorbitant.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u28	Mr. President. The middle class stresses the management of government interests and that the rate of growth in the history of this government will be reduced. The financial bill gives evidence that the state's mood is not to be blown down, leading the Independence Party as usual, which has regularly cried for elections: Drive away. Then, when the pack reaches power, the stall continues to grow. We need to clean up our money and reduce the state's perspective, said the highest. Secretary of finance in 2010. In 2020 the same minister said there was an endless blood - blood waste all over the public sector. He's not gonna do anything about it. This is where we put a profit for every department in the United States. Often needed, but now is necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u29	A respectable president. Here's a quarter of the item for 197 million. K. temporary increases in safety and protection. The Commission's opinion shows that it will help to promote network protection and to protect against the multimarkets of Iceland, and it is time to do so. The corrosion virus has an average of taught us that we have become heavily dependent on our use of technology and communication in daily life, perhaps even more so than before. It is also suggested that we take part in the center of Tallinn, Estonia, and the QA in Helsinki, where we are now the only North American state that does not share and the only state of the Atlantic Alliance. There we will gain valuable experience and knowledge that will benefit us in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u30	A respectable president. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is part of a legal committee making adjustments during a difficult year's journey. Well, let's be absolutely clear that we're spending time on material because of the circumstances here. Happily, a government fund is based on solid foundations because once the years have passed, debt has been paid off. However, it is not normal and normal to increase expenses in all areas. That's a very long road away. We are here to resolve that we have been the only nation of our coalition countries who have not participated in international cooperation against a threat that is not a threat to the future but the present threat, and already it is the Internet security issue. I want to use this opportunity, a respectable president, and thank you especially for the leadership and most of the time. The legislature board for making a good impression on these matters and making very good adjustments, both in this security matter and in other interests of our Icelanders. [[The president calls.]] I will, of course, vote with this suggestion, but I notice that not all members of the council do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u31	Mr. President. This proposal is a twofold contribution to the tax investigator to fight social security, a lesion in our community. On the other hand, a contribution to customs and the drug problem is involved. The drug problem is one of the most serious and difficult things in society. More powerful drugs have taken root in this country than before, and increasing drug control on the border is effective. This is a suggestion to strengthen customs security in the battle against the import of drugs. In addition, it is suggested that the customs guard be strengthened to correct the defect in customs registration of imported agricultural products, which has caused much damage to the agriculture system.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u32	A respectable president. I complained about the appointment of voters on the budget board before it arrived at the council. This is a few suggestions, and a few suggestions may be made to votes, e.g. For the follow-up of social security. But 250 million people watching drugs on the border would be so much more likely to be spent on demeaning measures and such. So we say yes, we monitor social security, but no to the other, so we finally sit by the vote on this team. Of course, we should be able to vote on each course. How shocking it is that when you have two suggestions for a single budget, it is highlighted in a total of detail! This isn't how I think it works. It was a problem last time, and it is still the problem that has not been fixed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u33	The president's gonna put it in. A senator could, if he really wanted to do this simple, moved a adjustment proposal to the adjustment proposal and dropped the money, and thus would come out of his vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u34	Mr. President. We are dealing with a 100 - year - old crisis, as it were. It has been pointed out that innovation is a password in a crisis. This proposal points to the total amount of technology fund. It's amazing that we can't unite in doing that. There was a record of applications in the Technical Development Fund this summer, but do you know how many applications were accepted? 8% of them. If we look at the financial program of this government, which I don't know if many members of the board have seen, then funding for innovation will be reduced in the next five years by 23%. I'm not sure the senators even know because they don't talk like that. It's sometimes like a whisk. Senators didn't look at their own pills. Do the people know that they're supposed to reduce the group of innovations and research by 23% over the next five years? I don't think so. I got it. I got it. Senators to support innovation, but if it is the greater part of the government, there is no such thing as the previous day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u35	Mr. President. Here is a modest proposal in an extremely important language, which suggests support for innovation and research, which includes an additional $1 billion for technology development, an additional 750 million and 250 million for research fund. New births are extremely important. We need to think about the future at the same time because we face a crisis. This is a very important step. There are a lot of projects, wonderful projects, that are not funded because we do not put enough in this fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u36	A respectable president. I think it's only a reason to come up here in the light of the above votes and to remind of a table in the Committee's Committee's opinion of a greater proportion of legal committees showing the tremendous increase in budgets that have slipped in the terms of innovation and research and knowledge, or 73%. This has increased from less than 15 billion in 2017, and this year's proposal is 25.9 billion. This is reality.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u37	Mr. President. Our communities do our most precious service; basic schools, gymnasiums, aging services, social and sports, and other things. They are facing the challenges of those times, and it is vital that they maintain this most precious ministry. In some respects, however, rural communities, in contrast with the State, are greatly separate from investments and management, and they have to go to zeros. They have two choices, i.e. to cut down service to the people, and that can't happen, or that, to reduce investment. In fact, rural society has experienced 50% of all investments in the country, and if not better met them, this will reduce the resistance that the government has so much spoken about. Here are a few steps toward improving the interests of your community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u38	Mr. President. There is no need to increase the pressures of local social services because of the shocks many have had. This will have already been a major factor in the financial expenses of the community in social service. The proposal for restoration of 2 billion contributions to the rural community, which is the earmarked social services, will be given to the rural community in accordance with their expenses for this category, is very necessary. We all know that this ministry will be a great challenge next year and likely over the next few years, as a result of what we are going through today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u39	President. Recently, the General approved a social protection law that is quite an extensive and well-declared legal arrangement for the citizens of the country. The superintendent of Perconte, in a letter accompanied by a 2019 annual bill, said that they needed workers to enforce their laws. This is the amount needed to maintain the rights we granted to the citizens of this country by the law. I think it's a rather obvious flaw that has to be fixed by the law. It would be interesting to see the outcome. She seems red, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u40	V.E.G. President. Here's a proposition for 25 million. K. a temporary contribution to the cooperation of the Federal Protection Agency and the businessman of the Northern East at the Service Place in Húsavík. Two employees, a lawyer and a clerk are expected. This is what I want to celebrate. This is a good project, and I know that it has had an open mind and practical suggestions on how work can be done throughout the country. This is what I want to celebrate.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u41	A respectable president. I'd like to welcome this proposal for two jobs that should be at Húsavík and this partnership between the county and the Pervert. I think it's important, just as we've talked about, to strengthen the districts for the scattered settlements and to be part of the law that was agreed by giving them an assignment. This conversation between Perconte and the businessman has been going on for over a year, and I believe this is a good conclusion, especially since the situation at Húsavík is in poor employment and everything so important.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u42	Mr. President. This new proposal suggests providing another 400 million in the construction of a high - power network of the most recent and best form throughout the country. The government has recently announced its ambitious climate goals. Although this may not be a major part of the context, it is certainly a step in that direction. We have to hope that the tourists and the people will travel around Iceland for the next year and years like nobody is tomorrow, and we want them to do it and all of us on cars powered electricity. But to be able to do so, there must be a loading station wherever people travel through the main roads of the country. I challenge you to accept this little proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u43	A respectable president. Here we vote to put 350 million in the construction of a marine park in Njardík. This is essential for the establishment of ship - service cables that will create 200 to 300 new jobs in the area. It will bring services to a larger fishing ship into the future with a magnificent situation in which a large number of companies are going to gather and build a vessel cluster. Of course, this has a positive effect on employment on Southnes. Its diversity is increasing, and this budget is not only in the right time but also in a very good way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u44	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to see these changes in the budget of the budget right here on paper. We have long tried to call attention to this important business in the South. As indicated by the members of the largest section, 350 million are suggested. K. who are laid to the Redemptive Fund, while Njardík Shiphor's shipyard has long built up droughts for the Njardík. The premise that this can become and create dozens of jobs is that the Kingdom also comes in with financial contributions to carry out the necessary projects on the docks and on the docks. Investments have shown great interest in the case, and the local community and shipyards have done enormous preparations on this project.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u45	A respectable president. This is where we vote on a proposal for the transportation I support. I would especially like to call attention to the part of the proposal to respond to Istavia's income intake due to domestic flights that have a smiling basis for the agreement of state and Istavia to take over business and maintain the Lavilian standard airport. This is a suggestion of 450 million. K. This is why a donation is made. This guarantees the operation and maintenance of the airport next year. But also, I would like to point out that the projects adopted in a special temporary investment campaign in transport, involving projects in Akureyri, and at the Lagis State Airport, are fully funded in budgets as they were submitted.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u46	Mr. President. This is a problem that has to do with the agriculture and is actually a so-called Covid thing. It has to do with accumulation of milk protein, which is very high due to the virus epidemic, and especially because of the import of cheese from the European Union that has failed to enter the customs record, which is several times higher than it should be. This has led to great difficulties, and it is here given the strength to work on this supply.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u47	Mr. President. The government worked hard to give up the population of so - called travel as far as 5,000 bucks. and stands to extend it to summer. This proposal for restoration goes on to add 15,000 bucks. for this excellent gift, using the system set up, extending the gift so that it also includes art and culture, and also treating people from 12 years of age. At the same time, this large increase will be in the published articles that have been exposed to heavy loads, and most of all, this will be very useful for those who have lost a lot of money. In this way, families can enjoy a happy day and travel across the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u48	A respectable president. Here we are paying a vote for the subsidies of electricity emissions by 730 million. K. This contribution, which is expected to increase by 90 million. K., enough to achieve the full equation from September 1 onwards. This is of utmost importance to those living in rural areas and paying much higher money for the external cost of electricity.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u49	Mr. President. What a joy this is! Reaching the average energy prices in the country has been a big conflict and a great deal of justice. We know that many homes around the country are experiencing a very high energy cost, and the next year, September 1, will be the equation without raising the equation of the exchange of electricity across the country. This is a great cause for rejoicing and should really be a cause for rejoicing. I just want to say that this budget is unusually good in view of these difficult situations. There is a huge effort on the road to hosting homes and people and businesses that show that this government has the courage and courage to deal with the difficult conditions in which the nation lives, and we see that we are getting through with a good government. [[The point is, it's a pleasure to bring your adjustment.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u50	Mr. President. I speak here for the central Party's amendment, which is in two order. On one hand, there are 250 million who are added funds to meet national food products in agriculture. It has been affected not only by a reduction in tourism but also also by a serious failure to reduce the import of agrienvironmental products, which has caused accumulation of many mails in the production of agricultural products. Government actions in this regard are not sufficient. However, increased funds for forestry are involved. There, we need to do much better. The fact is, the government is not increasing to a significant extent, and especially to carbon binding. We'd like to increase forestry to carbon binding as a powerful contribution to Iceland's resources.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u51	A respectable president. I just want to remind you that in the speech before it seemed that it was being paid votes for the forestry, for the last vote, but it's this vote, to be clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u52	Yeah, that's good for what we do. Councilmen to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u53	Mr. President. The eight nature clinics with skilled experts working on national components are of great importance to the settlements, regional policies, science, and environment. There is already a cooperative agreement between the Ministry and the Nature Organization, and it was a huge step taken by the government by the National Institutes first by the Government. Here are some of the extra resources that are being assigned to the plant to support it as much as possible under the present circumstances. This is a positive step, not the last one. The greenhouses can expand, and this is to be done with further support of the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u54	Mr. President. In the responsible process and in our controversies in the United States on green, professional revolution, now at the council, we expect a 60% contraction, and we will have specific measures on how to keep it. There's a new plan for the best. The prime minister of 55% is unsaid, and only 0.1% of the increase in land production goes to the environment. We want, for example. to establish a green investment fund owned by the government that supports climate-friendly job structure and the green high-tech industry. The government will place the fund at 5 billion dollars. ... inparty. The sea looks for cooperation with private investors, takes into account the government's climate action programme and the policy of the Scientific and Technical Council in all its activities, and fosters good governance in members of which it invests.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u55	Mr. President. If I get it right, we're voting for special support to a man at 80 million bucks a month. On the basis of the environment. I must say that I find this a very peculiar arrangement, so I now don't say it strong, and I honestly can't support this operation. So I'll say no to this team in the motion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u56	A respectable president. Here is the full weight of the state's budget. This is a joke to the budget this year, I think, is being used as some kind of environmental project. As explained in the explanations, 80 million people should be checked to see if minks still do not eat food left. I'm sorry, it's just a little party.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u57	A respectable president. Here, more than a portion of the legal committee contributes to the various collections and completes the country. They are extremely important for each community where they are. I'd like to mention here 5 million. K. a temporary contribution to the National Law Hall of Sr. Bjarni Þorsteinsson son, a contribution to Iceland's Flyfold, to Skaftfells and the National Technologies Museum of the East. And then there are a few more institutions that are picked up here. I just want to celebrate. This is extremely important to the local community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u58	A respectable president. Many little things do one big thing, as they often say. In the discussion of budgets, the billions have grown to so many and large that little numbers somehow do little to fly, but they are of enormous importance to those whom they find. Here we are talking about collections, museums scattered around the country, and these funds are important, even though there are not many millions of people in each country. Here we have a variety of museums, as we have just noted. We have a PUB, an international film festival, we have a children's culture and other things underneath. I'm glad we've been able to deal with it on a budget board to support all these good parties on this budget bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u59	V.E.G. President. I'd like to explain why we again call a proposal for an important support to the sports movement 470 million. K. It's a trust fund. It must be taken into account with an issue that is designed for management and discussion on the subject. It's a welfare committee and it's part of this. We'll vote later on on for a donation related to which it is safe to support. It turns to pay for the sports movement. But we're calling it through 3rd. to be consistent with the payment on that subject and the possible changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u60	A respectable president. This is to add the state radio abduction fee. There was a discussion here at the council during a brilliant debate. paritaprevir Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé moved, and I loved her so much that I threw down what he said at the end, with the permission of a president: To a large extent, our culture and our information flow is sliding. I believe, Mr. President, that there is a total reduction in radio costs to be made. In order for us to continue our business, RUV needs the radio fee paid completely. ◯ I want to do those words now. A senator of mine, hoping more members of the council will do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u61	Mr. President. Here is the order of the Central Party for a cut to RUS in the time our national radio plays a comprehensive and essential cultural, democracies and security role. We're in a disaster. We're in a unemployment crisis. The report on the U.S.R. stands for the information of the staff on our national radio. Of course, we do not vote by it but against such a proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u62	A respectable president. Private media are dealing with superpowers, with the media of the state. Instead of attacking the root cause of the problem that I now have, and thinking that the entire body of Congress agrees that there is a particular problem, this adjustment is made in the spirit of competition. In addition, private media, if you don't mind me saying, are humiliated and practically barked by being put on the state. The media is not supposed to be on the government's feeders, so I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u63	President. I come here to encourage you. It's up to business. It simply needs to raise the amount below. The State Radio needs to be replaced with a lower radio charge, which unfortunately will be done if nothing has to be done. I got it. I got it. The budget is to be used between the 2nd and 3rd. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson for a beautiful and warm word to me earlier. It would have been fun if it were. A senator would have talked to me before the discussion and even tried to get along with me, not just using my name in political shots in a pita.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u64	A respectable president. The position of the private media in the battle at The Kingdom Radio is in such a remarkable way that it is now unique that the budget is still being added to the State Radio at the same time as the private media are in a more recent position than ever. V.E.G. The minister of state earlier explained in his speech that depending on who did not vote in a way that he would likely be. Now I find that members of the Independence Party prefer votes differently than I had expected. I just want to point out that I will today, on behalf of the Central Party, propose an unplugged motion on this issue that has to face up to a new implementation of the tax on the State TV.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u65	Mr. President. I thought most members of the Parliament could see the importance of The Kingdom News in those times as well as others. We saw that the budget bill was about to cut the budget for the State TV down about 300 million. Here, 140 million are restored, with 160 million missing. The rest of the reports are off. That's why it's very strange to hear a word here. paritaprevir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Otttir's son Proppér said he wants to raise money for the State Radio. This was a proposal two minutes ago to add the state radio the loss of income in the budget bill. Hv. The senator pressed the no-taker. What room was in? Senator? Talk about poise.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u66	He's in the side room.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u67	Here are inspired counsels that people want to do the other, and so on. Congress officials are given an opportunity to see this in the vote. Why is there always this shooting war? Why is that, and I may be going to give a talk about it afterwards, that all suggestions of the government stand out in a pandemic? [[The president calls.]] The ability to do what is right. Don't the senators quit this sandbox game? [[The president calls.]] Talk about suggestions they support and have supported many times in this Assembly Hall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u68	Mr. President. This suggests more than half of what we're going to do. The budget is very important. It is important in times of employment crisis to open high school, offer a wide range of study opportunities, offer people the opportunity to build up their jobs in a workforce, which will be much different from that of the pandemic. So this suggestion is positive. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u69	A respectable president. I agree with what. Harðardóttir It's a really good suggestion. It's even here. suggested that 30 million be funded to promote employment and education resources on the Southnes. We all know the situation there. The government has recently agreed that education has to be established in cooperation with local educational institutions. In order to improve the study and work options for jobseekers in the area, 300 million are aimed at buying an education network. The net budget may be some 70 billion. K. over the next three years, as indicated by the detailed committee mask of the rest of the section. It also speaks of such projects as learning, opportunities, and other wonderful projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u70	A respectable president. This bill for funding is very prospective, and it has made a clear decision to invest in the future. High school contributions are increasing by 10% in real value. Similarly, contributions to the university level are increasing by 15%. The government said that they were going to support society's basic systems and invest in education, and this is truly a combination of sound and image. This government can be trusted to act with insight and make a decision marked by courage.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u71	A respectable president. This is about investing in education and having a sound and picture together. [[Taken out on: right.]] Students in this country finance their studies on a larger scale than anywhere else with work, with work in various professions. As we know, the epidemic has caused such opportunities to grow in the minds of students. This suggestion allows for strengthening the newly created funds of students so that students can provide both more fully for their study and for the better of their education, their country, and their country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u72	Mr. President. I just want to welcome the money we're spending at the college and college level, as we've seen here, which is a huge need in these difficult times. At the same time, I want to encourage the highest. A minister of education for that, because we have a contribution to the East Bridge for another year, we have to complete a longer time contract with the big eastern bridge, so that people don't have to spend an enormous amount of time each year looking for money. This is part of a basic service we're supposed to fund by contracts, and I encourage the Minister to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u73	President. I'd like to encourage the highest. A minister of education not to go out on bail. This is not a particularly advanced school and university fund; it is simply a payment for the people applying for it. There is an increase in attendance at schools, which is more successful in conditions and, fortunately, support for them, etc. This does not mean that the number of students is increasing and, as a result, they are being helped in any way to strengthen the after- or university system. It is simply being paid for by the people who will be there, which, fortunately, is not to be strengthened beyond that. Let's get things straight, what resources we're paying votes. They're paying votes by spending money with students, not by funding the university on extra projects or anything like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u74	Mr. President. I welcome it, and I agree with the importance of supporting our schools. Here's a contribution to the eastern bridge of 30 million. The eastern bridge promotes interests in the East and provides integrated and cross-cutting services related to employment, education, and culture, in fact, a unique organization of immense importance to society. I agree with what you're saying. A senator who spoke up earlier, anyway. paritaprevir Gunnarsdóttir Gunsdóttirs, that it is important that a fixed contract be made there. But I'd also like to point out that it's 15 million. K. temporary contributions to the Multi-educed, Long-term Education and Knowledge Centres. All of these are important institutions for all of us throughout the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u75	A respectable president. We're paying votes for increased funds to hospitals, Land Hospital ◯ College Hospital. We're going to make big money to them because we have to figure out that we're in the middle of a Covid epidemic and we're supposed to give the hospitals the money they need. For those in need of their service, something else is irresponsible and simply life - threatening. We're asking not to be cut down but to make sure the hospitals get what they need to survive the Covid epidemic. Accepting it should not be very complicated.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u76	A respectable president. There are more than a group of people who care for the health of the country and want to do everything they can to prevent cuts in that area. We know that the Lands Hospital of a University Hospital fought in the banks of Covid, much less now. There's a demand for the hospital, and he's raised less than 4.3 billion dollars. That is exactly what this mission involves, the raising of funds and simply canceling the accumulated debt of a Lands Hospital, so they start with a clean table, and we are not reducing ultrasounds or further research or services to patients in the country. A respectable president. It is really the last thing to plan to attack our largest medical facility and to demand maintenance measures as soon as they are dealing with this accumulated problem. Now, be bold and capable, as you are always talking about, chief. Government, and just cross it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u77	Mr. President. Health issues were the language group that the voters wanted us to put first. It is extremely strange that this government is not ready to clean up the cumulative angle of the Land Hospital to less than 4 billion. It's been done before. This was done before this government began. In 2017 the collection of tails was cleansed. Therefore, it is very strange that this government wants to keep such a slope hanging over the Land Hospital. And what does the tail mean? The land hospital presented us with the practical procedures. It's supposed to shorten the incorporation of women's medicine department. They're supposed to reduce the ultrasound in the heart lab, and they're changing the psychiatric facilities. This is 20 operations, so the hospital will feel it. It is remarkable and political news that a government that claims to put health care first is not ready to take it back, since on the side of which the hospital needs to work up is a special retreat to which I am late getting tired of talking about, of the health system of more than 2 billion. [[The president calls.]] In Covid's time, it's very peculiar.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u78	President. This is a series of similar modifications, i.e. to wipe out the home of a Land Hospital ◯ University hospital. This is the lowest proposal and the most moderate in terms of our staging this. This is the tail that remains of the accumulated slope that developed in 2018 99919. It should, at least, be drying up that angle because it was created because of design problems, due to pay problems, because of the miscalculations of collective agreements. The problem is, not a Land Hospital ◯ University hospital, to teach in any way, but simply a flaw in financial resources obtained by the General Assembly. It should be easy, then, to accept at least this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u79	A respectable president. An increase to the Land Hospital is about 4 billion. or 5.2% between years. The land hospital is the flagship of the Icelandic health system and has repeatedly shown what it contains, and especially now it is in the Covid-19 and the fight against the epidemic. We're building a therapeutic core at the Ringtrack. We're at the top of the clinic and we're raising nurses. All of this is important for continued attention to health care. During the period 2017/2021, the rate of health contributions has increased by 43 billion in solid prices or by about 20% in the event category during the term, the ideal period that has been remembered for health care in the country. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u80	Mr. President. Health agencies in the districts of the land take everything as a single wave of business, whether on the east, west, south, or north. Before the epidemic struck, some institutions and organizations were already in trouble. It is certain that the health system will be under great stress in the following phases following the delay and completion and failure of the work in the Covid epidemic and the problem will flare up. The institutions are equipped with a lousy business environment, either to collect debt or to look to banks for assistance and advantage. The government refuses to recognize these facts, and the question is, What happened to the promises of the last election that health care should have a top priority? The people agreed, but this government does not agree. Mr. President. There's an error in this Senate document. I'd like to guess. It's supposed to be 1 billion instead of 4 and wishes to be corrected in the news.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u81	Mr. President. In recent years, health institutions throughout the country went into trouble in the pandemic and, especially, those in areas where population growth has been abundant. Add to the problems related to Covid and heavy unemployment, which are accompanied by pressures from health institutions. I can mention the Southnesia Medical Institute, where unemployment is high and population growth had been high before the pandemic. There are other institutions, such as the National Institutes for Health, South America, and other countries around the country. That is why this contribution, 1 billion, is used to strengthen these institutions, for health care to be done around the country and for everyone, so important. I urge you to change your mind and press the green button.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u82	A respectable president. National health institutions have played a key role in the battle against Covid-19, but particularly health care. It has been a special pleasure, in cooperation with the health care of the capital and health institutions and their national directors, to place special emphasis on the building of health care during this ideal period. We've got big health care. We have built up a mental - health team in all medical situations. We have built up the National Development Center for All Districts. We've built a health welcome. Everyone knows the sample sample part of Covid. Your next job will be screened for cervical cancer. Today, we have added 540 million at a national level to make the country's mental - health services even more difficult. The health care department should be our first stop in the medical service, and it has greatly strengthened them during this most excellent time period.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u83	Mr. President. Here we are voting on something quite interesting, and it may be possible to say that there is a test on the Council. In the summer, members of all groups agreed to votes for subsidies in a psychological service that was not financed at the time. The general legislature, or lawgiver, pointed to the highest, of course. The secretary of finance, when he said that the Allied Council could provide funding for the project, and now we are able to do so. If the Council is not prepared to follow their own agreement from summer onward, those who are not prepared to do so may consider not suggesting something they do not want to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u84	A respectable president. Mental - health services have taken priority in this government, as shown by actions. Mental - health care services and mental - health teams around the country are eloquent examples. This year's budget takes the first step in subsidizing psychiatric services in private rooms. This is certainly an important step, and it is up to 7,000 interviews that come for payment. The next steps will be the steps in the overall context, and I look forward to seeing them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u85	A respectable president. During this year all classes, governments, and governments, united in this important matter, provided access and readily available, especially young people and people with low incomes, became psychological services, regardless of whether it is granted by the government or by private sources. Here we look at privates and it's as if the government can't build up health services differently than through the government, through the government. We need to have access to this service. We must keep in mind that the direct cost of community mental illness is 20 billion. It's triple under indirect cost of about 100 billion deaths occur each year as a result of childhood trauma, and today this epidemic is epidemic. This is a call for you, my friends in this room. Supporting this matter, showing forethought, showing concern for our fellow citizens. If it comforts someone, it's economically practical.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u86	Mr. President. By paying this vote, the government groups have the opportunity to keep their word to put the matter of mental health first. The nation's mental health at Covid time, during a time of disaster, is at risk. We need to do more than what is now done when there is a waiting period of many weeks and months for us to get to a mental - health professional. Though it is worth building that service, we need to do more in these times. We need to make sure that children, youths, and adults, as well as older citizens, can, without having to sit around for weeks and months, receive essential mental - health care. This can be supported and followed by the approval of the General Assembly here in spring, to substantiate psychological services.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u87	A respectable president. Here we are. to vote to add up to 90 nurses or 1,350 million. K. In operating in such areas. This changes the health status of the whole system, and especially the Land Hospital, but mostly for the elderly and those with performance and health status. This funding will be paid for the management of these areas, which will be complete and meet the requirements we make of this kind. It is also suggested to add more than 300 million. K. to cover increased weight of nursing in previously operating spaces. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u88	Mr. President. I'm very welcome to this proposal. Although these are numbers on paper, crowns from the government box, this will save us money because it is far more expensive for older citizens who have improved their skills and health standards in hospitals and hospitals than for nurses. I'm glad that the government has the courage to go to this, to support our national hospital, but also meet the needs of older citizens who are allowed to stay in a more homey place than the third degree hospital. I'm celebrating.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u89	A respectable president. This is a very important addition and additional contributions to the services of a vulnerable group. This work must continue to be done. It still needs to be added. I look forward to seeing the results of the nursing staff. Following that conclusion, we will be able to examine further how we can meet this service and how the donations and management of these institutions will be implemented to the future for this very vulnerable and important group in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u90	A respectable president. I'm also coming up here to celebrate these teams. There is an increase of about 100 spaces, and especially here a temporary contribution is taken into account in terms of changes in nursing weight. It is very important, and much has been called for throughout the country. As we know, nursing weight in nursing homes has always been increasing. The same is true of those homes too.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u91	A respectable president. I say yes to this proposal, and I hope so much and sincerely that now we put the nursing home first. We've learned in the Covid epidemic how important it is to keep the nursing homes in order to make sure that they are not waiting and that they will be provided for those who need this service.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u92	V.E.G. President. This is an adjustment from us in the Central Party to place 300 million at the treatment station at the U.S.A. This is the coin that is missing to keep the service the way it was for Covid, and before the elf sale, which has been used as an amount of self-inflicted to keep a minimum operation, fell down. Here's your next proposal to go up to 200 million. K. That's 100 million when it's served. So, as the other day, we have to go to the Kingdom Radio Fund, and we did our job. I may rather hope that in the months to come, it will be the highest. The secretary of finance sits down with its guardians of the United States and makes a good deal with them so that we can delete the lists of between 500 and 700 people in recent years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u93	President. I welcome the good feeling that is expressed in this suggestion. I wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to come up here and encourage the highest. The government and minister of the mercenary and the finance of what I believe to be the legitimate arrangements for hospitalisation in Iceland, i.e. ... thatthehellexplorementofaninterrestrials. It's my solid faith that hospitals are best in the hands of the State. That is true of this business as well as of another. I encourage you to ensure that these matters will be successful, but unfortunately, you can't support this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u94	Mr. President. Here's a suggestion to add to dresser compensation for microchip. With the permission of the President, I'd like to read what Iceland's Environment Association says about the budget bill: We're left behind. That's our first reaction. And it's a bad experience. And it is clear that the main focus of keeping people in poverty remains. This is Iceland's Bank of Silesia. This isn't the government group that writes like this. Developmental aid also writes about the bill: ▪ Be the bill, and the plan will be agreed unchanged by the General, which means that microenergy pensioners will be further reduced in terms of living and will be sentenced to continue in poverty. It's a mature help. This is not a management class writing. That is why I do not realize that just another year is waiting for justice to come. Still another year, micromasks are waiting for gerbilities that have been made to praise them many times. [[The president calls.]] Sadly, time is running out, for these are the last financial laws of this government, and this is a clear message for 25,000 pioneers in this country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u95	A respectable president. According to my notice and response to my inquiries, this is the number required to meet biographies for those who are making social security. It is simply being followed by a general national bargain agreement for the people who are living in a social pension fund. This proposal covers a number of topics. This is the first of them. I'll do it just in a speech explanation for all those topics. I repeat, this is the minimum to fulfill the lifetime contracts.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u96	A respectable president. Allowing poor people to wait on righteousness is the same as denying it for righteousness. I just don't believe it until I get to the top. The government and the greater part of the Generals do not even follow Article 69. Social security laws and increases in the progress of this group by 7.1%, such as the country's average wage increased and the country's pay period ranged from October 2019 to October 2020. That was 7.1%. This suggestion implies merely that we follow the current rights, nothing else, and at the same time that we do not always give in to micropliables and the poorest ones and act as if they have nothing to do with us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u97	A respectable president. Here again we are paying for justice. Here again, we are showing whether we are making the right hands of the smallest of our brothers and sisters. Here we are again adding only to what is really legal, such as having payment put on pay development in the country. Here we are talking about all social assistance, all support to disability. Here, the government and the greater part have contributed 3,632 billion. K. in the seminary but not with the evolution required for us to comply with current rights. A group of people want to add over 900 million. K. to be fulfilled. A respectable president. If any of us deserve it now for Christmas... that we show what we have and put our people in their arms... then it's the poorest Icelanders. We're votes here on what? The Allied Assembly of the Icelanders about them right now. I'll be absolutely clear, therefore, all over the world, and highlight how you are paying for the poor people of this country in the last financial law of this government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u98	A respectable president. Trends for disability have not been accompanied by pay development, the restitution over the years. The differences in the development of this government are amazing. True, the worst is a 6% rise, the higher the pay rate. But it's just a bit, a lot of things don't get this pay development. Why are people being discriminated against so much? Why can't you even give these people exactly what others are getting in this society? For the most part, it's very low. We are to follow the development of pay, and if only a fraction of it is allowed to be paid according to salary development. But no, no, no. The difference in evolution continues.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u99	A respectable president. This is an important team, 2730, of the total or complete funding of the NAPA agreements estimated to be 300 million. K. This will mean an additional 30◯40 contracts. We're about to finish an important step in this direction, and I'm especially glad to hear it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u100	A respectable president. Once again, the crowd is fighting for the rights of the poor, the elderly, and the desperate. Now, more of this has contributed $2,100 million. K. Funds to meet Covid in this way so that the elderly have decreased their numbers in a labour market, which should be stressed that it might be advisable to eliminate the decrease in income. But what the crowd are doing is asking that, in the past, it will be the national pay development as a value to this group of people as well as to all others. Like poverty, a group of people are fighting against discrimination. I urge everyone to let our old people enjoy the doubt.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u101	A respectable president. The older citizen's money made a very modest demand, an improvement in pay development, a sum of 16,000. a month, a very modest requirement. Not a thumping back but a once in a while only to get the right amount. But, no, you can't. You see, this is the wide background of this government. Older citizens. Let's make the elderly a carefree night of our lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u102	Concerned.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u103	That's not what they're doing. Yeah, that's exactly what it is, worrying night of your life. A large group do not know how to afford food or Christmas gifts for their grandchildren. They don't even get 50,000 bucks. tax and taxpayer's fees. All they get is 3.6%. It sucks.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u104	Mr. President. This suggests that we accept an older citizen's demand to get the same money raise as any other group, to give them $1,750. Every senator has heard of an older citizen's organization that stresses it. That natural requirement for an older citizen should not surprise anyone. It is amazing that the message today, from the three federal categories, should be that older citizens, of all groups, should not have the same rise as other groups according to the biography agreements. There are 45,000 elderly citizens in this country. I know my own people. I know that every member of the board will meet with senior citizens in the wake of the next election and promise to do everything for them. I just think it's important that older citizens and poor people, and the groups being loaded over and over, will remember how you're taking your chances in this room when there's a suggestion in front of you. These suggestions do not reflect the fact that anything is going on. It's just the right thing to do, and that's why it's still and over again it's a shocking message coming out of this room. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u105	The president reminds us that it is appropriate to address the president, not the members of Congress, personally.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u106	Mr. President. This will discuss the suggestions made by the Central Party to improve the interests of older citizens, on the one hand, that they have the same monopoly that they have in the year, a total of 70,000. tax-free and biographies reach this group like others, with 15,750 cents. monthly increase. Finally, we suggest that older people are not prevented from improving their interests with more work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u107	Mr. President. Of course, I support this suggestion, for it, in a small way, meets the legitimate wishes of the elderly. I must admit, however, that this may be the part that I have had to scratch the most in my head when it comes to government decisions. Compatibility requirements for a raise of 15,750 to equal to those who have been bridaled from the biographies agreements but cannot be fixed. It's a group that's had to put up with her breasts for the past few years. This is not a request for correction on anything, it's just a request for this raise of crowns. I don't understand, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u108	A respectable president. Here we, the members of the people, are making a move on the social benefits to the elderly. Social support laws are passed on social security laws. Thus, the daughters are expected to have a general pay development. The majority of the items have made no suggestion for any change in these terms. A fourth smaller section, by the people's Tracks, suggests an increase in this level of rights and on the topic field to match the development of a pay number. The increase is no less than 275 billion. K. Have you ever heard anything like this? These are the tiny crowns that actually make the difference for the very few to the highest. Secretary of finance says it's painful to bind in this regard. These are small numbers that matter a lot, every dollar. I'm just saying, so that there could be something positive about the adjustments we, one after the other, put forth here, and all are good, that it would be very pretty if they could give it to these people even if it were only for Christmas. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u109	A respectable president. I come up here and I realize that I support this transition. I'd like to say, too, that the present government has taken action in this ideal period in behalf of the elderly as well as in other groups. We immediately set out to map out how to meet the elderly who earns the lowest income. It's a bill that's been approved here at the council. An agreement was also made with the older citizen's National Association to follow up the groups above, the smallest of them. That team's working. He examines not only benefits but also social conditions and other factors. The order of the group is to be expected at the beginning of the new year. Hopefully this will lead to action that will be taken. The course is that. Then, too, I'd like to say that we've undergone extensive operations in relation to the social status of the elderly, both in the budgets of the present year and in the budget for the next year. It involves the elderly who are in a difficult situation, who have loneliness, etc. It presents quite a small amount of money that will benefit the group in the new year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u110	Mr. President. The management part suggests that child support starts cutting down the minimum insurance policy. The government's share looks to the International Cash Fund according to role models and wants to have child support as a kind of poverty grant. By agreeing with this proposal, you can aim for a child support approach not to start at 410,000 levels earlier. per month. We in the Union would like to look to the Norwegian states when it comes to welfare, especially the welfare of children, but not to the World Bank, as the government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter does in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u111	Mr. President. Here we vote for some suggestions in a number of joints that all focus on supporting children, between 1 and 2. The budget bill is adding to that support. This is supported by children of foreign origin. This is support for disabled children. This is a support to all kinds of children, and I'm paying this vote with great joy, and I think it's a very important introduction to this budget bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u112	A respectable president. I support these suggestions and suggestions on this family, family, and family support. There are various ways to support children and children. Then there are proposals for temporary contributions to follow action in the synonym on the prevention of sexual and sexual violence and harassment. There is a proposal for a temporary contribution to the Afrikaans, a sexual and family violence organization that is operated on in Akureyri, where this is of utmost importance at all times and especially in the modern times. In addition, there is an increase in donations for state diagnostic and counseling centres, which are important for the services of the children who are looking there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u113	Mr. President. Government and the highest. The government has increased pay - related unemployment improvements or extended the time to six months for some. The largest part of the government seems to think that those who lost their jobs in February are better off in the pandemic than those who lost their job in March. But I've got some news to give to the board of directors. It's not. Those who lost their jobs in February are no easier to find work than those who lost their jobs in March. This proposal, which seems to me to be the administrative part, is in order to allow all of us to make the long - term extensions that were out of work in August when the administrative sector first proposed changes in the pay period. [["What do you say? "]] [[The president calls.]] This is 4 billion people, for everyone who is out of work is in a lot of trouble. [[The president calls.]] It's ridiculous to be a lot of people, some get six months of income-related, but the other half, the 10,000, who were out of work in February, they don't get it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's injustice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u114	Mr. President. This suggestion is of two ways. On one hand, there is an increase in work contracts for disability. We need to work hard to strengthen the potential for disabled people and disability in a public labour market. Exploitation contracts are remuneration agreements with employers who have hired people with impaired employment skills and are designed to increase the potential of jobseekers with reduced skills to gain employment at a general labour market. Thus, there is an important option to consider for those with impaired ability. There is then a general operation to reduce unemployment, where Southnes especially look to 22% unemployment, or twice a country's elsewhere. It enables employers to recruit unemployment employees to work with strength.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u115	Mr. President. The Icelandic Parliament was the first country in the world to agree with the law that period bands, tampons, and other menstrual products will always be available to all who are required, and by law they laid responsibility on health authorities and rural society to enforce the law. Today's products should be in all toilets, such as toilet paper, and especially where young people are in schools and social centers. Scots stress that the products of the menstrual system are available just there, with the institutions of state and rural society. This is where expenses are devoted to implementing such policies, and I support these expenditures, even though I think we will have to build a frame around these good goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u116	Mr. President. Here is a suggestion to make frequent products available to those who need a Scottish example. Healthcare Ministers will be assigned in cooperation with other ministers and rural groups to provide two non-profit products, either in basic and high school age, or in low incomes. Based on estimates, this system needs some 280 million, so there is a proposal to add it to the budget. There is little price to pay to make menstrual flow as likely as normal and access to toilet paper in school and to eliminate travel.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u117	Mr. President. Last year, the level of non-menstrual tax was reduced to the lower level, which was an important step. There's a problem with business. The Economic and Business Committee on this subject, and the Commission, to some extent, agreed with the Commission's committee but directed recommendations to the highest level. Secretary of finance and the Ministry of finance to consider this matter in cooperation with the communities. Some elementary schools have begun these steps, which are very important. It will be helpful to keep track of future developments in cooperation between government and rural society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u118	Mr. President. Here we are voting on various things, but including additional budget to the '78 Associations who are performing a very important support service to gay people and to gay youths, which is especially important. This adds to the contribution already made by the Organization through the Ministry of Presidency. I think it's a very good and positive suggestion that I think it's a deal. There's also being suggested, in these and various other teams that we've been paying votes for today and that we're going to do, raise funding in a pre-emptive plan, and that's what I think very good is. This is precisely by increasing the prevention and education of sexual abuse and sexual violence that we can expect to have in the future. So I vote with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u119	President. As mentioned earlier, we'll vote on a few causes, including. the financing of a Covid-19 vaccine, but we plan to make a full deal with six parties on these purchases. In the previous day, the Pfizer contracts were signed about 170,000 doses sufficient for 85,000 people and the first doses from which a company is currently in charge of the year are expected to be effective in vaccinating 10,600 people. This will be the first step in the vaccination. Both programs and vaccinations are actually in place, but the computer system is being tested and ready in the middle of the month. By starting these injections, you will start a new section of the fight against Covid-19.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u120	A respectable president. Here the crowd are asking for the money we add to the greater part of the legal committee is entering the litigation party, which is 787.5 million. K. - An extra. We're asking to add another 160 million. K. which is exactly what we're going to put in our minutes for the next two years. It's this year, so the next 100 billion. K. which we are going to enter. Perhaps it would have been easier to help a fur farmers to develop something that was actually profitable rather than on a falling foot. We all know waiting's getting longer. We all know about increasing poverty. We all know it's Christmas. I can't understand we can't take 160 million. K. and sharing it with relief agencies to show that we are ready to make sure that our children are properly fed on Christmas Eve.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u121	A respectable president. I'm going to go to 3240, but there are some suggestions on the social activities of Covid, to support jobseekers, pensioners, children's families, and socially vulnerable groups. There are many important and effective projects on paper, including About 20 million. K. a contribution to the Pita Association and a contribution to the Red Cross and older citizens' Union. But last but not least, there's 30 million here. K. contribute to the Art project, which is a resource for children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural problems. This has given us a lot of experience and has been offered it in elementary schools and film schools in many countries, but especially in South Africa. It's been shown that this strategy works. Here we are doing things early to build children up early in life. I wish that the government will not allow us to stand in that position every winter to bring here an amendment that is subject to funding this project. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u122	A respectable president. I support the suggestions we vote here and are part of social measures for Covid, to support jobseekers, pensioners, children's families, and socially vulnerable groups. Many of these measures I've made to talk about, including At the council. These are important actions and I think many of them need to follow us after Covid, there are actions that have been particularly effective in supporting these socially vulnerable groups. I also support the measures we have voted for earlier on public health and welfare administration and also turn. to equal matters. Then I wanted to make a special contribution from this team to the Gaffian Manure in Akureyri, 15 million. K. temporarily, and as is a temporary special contribution to the Peeta organization, which, of course, is very important too.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u123	A respectable president. It happened here at the vote today that a senator came up under the wrong topic, but now I'm going to do it on purpose and apologize in advance. Thus, since there is no further discussion of the vote, I would like to give the highest attention. A president of the speculations that have come up to the next team of artists'awards. To give the highest. The President's only a bit of room to speculate on it is here to vote to confirm the award of honor to 25 artists. There are two new artists, Friðrik Þór Friðriksson and Jón Ásgeirsson, a great fortune, and both of them geniuses. What I wanted to ask a president is whether there is any reason to vote for each of these parties, especially in the light of the recent judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, although there may be other viewpoints to make a fundamental decision in those matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u124	That's when we come up here, like a dog. A senator gave a speech on a completely different subject, next to the vote of a universal and educational committee on a panel. 57, which is a modification proposal for separation 2 and includes a list of those whom the committee proposes to accept the award of artists next year, 25 persons. The president has no doubt that the council is permitted to agree in one piece, that is as valid a vote as if it were paid for each person individually. It is sanctified because it contains clear regulations in Congress, and in turn it stands the right of members of Congress to wish for a violation of the vote. The president encourages you. Senators to think their way before they make such a wish, for reasons I think everyone must understand. The issue mentioned from the Scriptures is from the Greek word translated "woe. " Ólason This is entirely different because it involved another law, the provision of provisional laws on the court, or the order of judges, but not that it was not permitted by the General of Congress to vote according to its own laws and to vote according to them, as the General Assembly is independent and self - employed, and no one tells them what to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u125	President. Because of what you're saying. paritaprevir It was good for Bergþór son of Ólason to explain how this was done by an order of 15 judges in the Lands Court. The law on the order of the judges requires something that would, of course, have to be followed by the General, i.e. ... ofmylaws. The president has explained. At the same time, I'd like to point out that the members of my section all voted against the proposal that was submitted to, in fact, a greater part of it. The management and monitoring committee at the time and was dropped with just one vote. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u126	This can hardly be considered a vote for...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u127	Since the president opened up this conversation, I wanted it to be clear to the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u128	A respectable president. Earlier in the year, it was delayed that members of the council and ministers increased in wages. Instead, it is to happen at the New Year's Eve, which means that financial authority on this subject should be clear. The Constitution of Iceland says that no fee can be paid unless it is authorized for financial or financial aid. We are to know exactly what the increase in the salary of senators and ministers will be next year. The next year's budget should be for her. I've kept asking who this increase will be. I've been told to hear that answers come right after the meeting, right after the weekend, tomorrow. It's after the weekend, after the meeting, and tomorrow. No answer has been received. I don't like the fact that this place has come to this place. I would have liked to vote for the rise, as Pirantar suggested when the Senate's pay was delayed earlier in the year. [[The president calls.]] I complain that legal rights cannot be mentioned because of these changes for the next year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-11-36.u129	Mr. President. We're paying a vote on authority for a big loan. We're going to turn yellow there. I also wanted to use this opportunity to mention to one of the expense teams that are not listed in the budget bill. That is because we are running one of the least currency in the world. It's worth tens of billions of dollars for state funds, for the Navy bank, for homes, for the companies of the country. This is likely a cost of 150 to 200 billion people every year. This is one of the things we have to discuss and make serious observations, whether we are too expensive to buy. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
