ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u1	President. Still, we still have much to say in this matter, but with confidence that there is a willingness to attack certain improvements, we have decided to put forth effort to hold only four more talks, although it means that many good talks will never be given. In this last part of my talk, I aim to consider just the aspects of the matter called a city line, a language that will be brought up by the mayor of the city of Reykjavík, which, as noted by men, seems to have spent the last cent on a cornea and ads to present the city of Reykjavík. However, the government will then be able to finance the cost of the election, finance the Union's campaign in Reykjavík, an extremely expensive and unflinchable problem, a task that increases one of the main problems of the capital area, traffic jams that have been experienced here every day. One lane in each direction is removed from traffic on many of the most important transport roads in the capital area, destroying solutions that could help in that direction, solutions such as light control, end up in the urban space to get the priority on lights, thus destroying all the light control of the capital area. It takes enormous money, just building this, and so endless business costs in the future. In comparison, it is estimated that by 2015 the cost of a swim would be 36 billion. The city line alone is 80 billion, or so to be said, even though it is beyond the end, and similar tasks in many countries have, in almost every way, far beyond the exception, even far beyond the cost. The government is going to try to set this up in order to fulfill the Commission's campaign in Reykjavík by selling one of the country's most valuable property, the Netherlands, possibly Iceland banks as well, but mainly by paying new taxes and expenditures to the public, and it did not improve. At the same time, we have shown this by referring to government records that the city has requested additional tax pay to cover its small part of the project and even went so far as to write the laws and reports that the city expected the minister to perform. As a result, road users will pay more to sit in traffic in the capital area and then perhaps now, the strangest thing in all of this is that a management plan does not seem to exist, at least There's no trace of it. What company would be engaging in an investment of dozens, probably hundreds, billions, would start in that investment without having any idea how the business could work? You don't need to use companies to compare: what state, which community elsewhere but here would go into it? I think it might be something for a government reexamination to look at, and there's so much in this transport contract on which this process is based, which has a very poor view of good government practices. There is also a demand for a city line to be run here twice the public transportation system, twice the bus system, even three times because there are now some people talking about train transports as well. Already the cost to users is about one third of the cost to the wagons and, as we noted, the cost will only increase, the cost to the streets alone. And it turned out today or yesterday that they admit, that the cost of a bus alone and alone will, at least, increase by 2 billion a year. Then the unseen and infinite cost to the city line will be added. There are better solutions, Mr. President, but I'm not sure there are much worse solutions than what is set up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u2	Mr. President. In the capital area, there has been a stop for many years. All those who have to make their way through the area have become implacable. The traffic jams don't come about by chance, Mr. President. They are predetermined and written by the more part in Reykjavík to get additional funds to perform an attempt to expand public transport, an experiment that began in 2011, and there is no result. The share of public transportation was 4% at the time of the experiment and 9 billion later their share is still 4%. In human language, the experiment has failed. But have you learned from experience? No, they're going to make a lot more money and bet all their money on a so-called city line. It is planned to make room for the special lane for the fast - moving systems that are especially long public carriages that take priority at the front of the road. How do you imagine that the family car will make its way when that system is established? Will traffic jams with the related delays be no more when two lanes have been removed for these fast cars? And how much are the promises of war? The latest figures say that the adventure, despite much inexpensiveness, will cost some 70 to 480 billion. These are the neighboring communities of Reykjavík and the State, who are willing to pay to move forward with their main foundationways in the vicinity of Reykjavík, even though the State is in its main role and gives much of the money to the bridge. Despite much search for management plans, they fail to care for their needs. How should this be run when this is to be done? There is no poor shop owner who does not plan how the income will be and what the expenses will be. There is no weak shopper in a private business that doesn't think much ahead. But there's no need for that, the dream is the main thing, the dream that everyone is going on the road with public transportation, in the bus. The dream is too much for anything else. No management plans. They are ready to jump on that bus and do so, the State, the mayor of the city of Reykjavík, in front of them and in neighboring communities. And what will be the price? Do they agree on this? Of course, this is a particularly difficult situation for the Independence Party. A spokesman for the Independence Party here at the council, huh? Haraldsdóttir Therefore, Brísharaldsdóttir sums up many talks in this discussion. What, though, about independence? They write, we read articles after them, we listen to talks by others. But the left men are determined to perform this dream despite all its costs and will follow. The talk has been very lively in these last days, and many articles have been published in magazines and on the Internet, and independent individuals have been there in the front of a series, an editorial in the Morning Press, for example. paritaprevir It's going to be all right. Andersen here at the council last Thursday, where she said it was an entirely unattractive phenomenon, an article by the tip of the Independence Department in Reykjavík, Eyþór Arnaldur, in the morning newspaper yesterday. The Independence Party is totally divided in this matter, but this is to be done, into this adventure man is going to ana. The central category will not approve these expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u3	Mr. President. I'll be in my last speech, at least in any direction, dealing specifically on the city line, on the important subject. Although we are dealing with a transport program, I want to move on to the city line because huge funds are to be left for that assignment. There are three things I want to come in especially. First of all, I think it is incorrigibly incorrigibly in charge of such a costly project because of the economic situation and the state's financial status. State funds are fired with up to 300 billion dollars. Turns and plans are to go ahead of projects such as a city line of tens of billions of dollars. The farms involved in this project are most struggling to perform legal services because of the consequences of the virus epidemic's economic situation. For example, Reykjavíkurburg has requested financial support from a government fund as a result of the virus epidemic. Her representatives met with a financial committee and asked for financial support. I think it's totally realistic to push this city line off the board, simply because of the economic situation. Second, I'd like to discuss only the use of city transport. This is an amazing investment, especially in view of the places in public transportation. Today, about 4% of its citizens make good use of this method of transportation. The Danish Advisory Corporation COWI has confirmed that urban demand is not sufficient, that specific measures are needed to promote demand. And what are they? Yes, they're just trying to squeeze into the family car. Actually, the city is to be forced to use this new bus system. In the Middle East, we don't think men will be going to some sort of consumer control in this regard. The cost of sacrifice in this area is in many ways closing down on the family car. The automobiles that car owners can use will be reduced. The truck's lanes will be laid down to set up the city line. This is absolutely incorruption, in view of the fact that Reykjavík was designed as a city primarily for driving vehicles and natural pedestrians, etc. To put a new transport system on top of this is easier said than done. It is all too costly and will not be used in an desirable way. It has only been shown that Icelanders have never been particularly eager to take advantage of the bus system. Finally, I want to name the technological revolution that lies beyond the corner. The self-sustaining electrical vehicles will be along the streets in no long time, much less time than we realize. The electrical vehicle is in a hurry. This brings us to the environment. It will be a lot environmental to be on the streets of the city than it is today. It will be not only the buses that make use of electricity but also the electric cars. During the viral epidemic, we have certainly seen changes in the behavior patterns of the common people. People are working at home, and there's an increase in that. It will travel to and from work at different times. There will not be this stress point between eight and nine in the morning and four and five on the afternoon. There are social changes that make it possible that the flow of traffic that humans are so worried about in the future may not be as much as you would expect because many people are inclined to work at home. There is a future in that arrangement, not least in the great technological revolution beyond the corner. Mr. President. I've studied three important factors that I think are a clear reason to push this city line project completely aside and put it down. It is possible to have a much less expensive approach, a misdirectional model, a layer of footways, etc. that will significantly improve the flow of traffic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u4	A respectable president. In my final talk on transport plans, I would like to focus primarily on organizational details, the state of the city, and the way the work has brought us into this complex situation. We senators must show responsibility in the handling of public funds, but unfortunately, it seems often, in particular, crystals in this matter, few of us are friends with the taxpayers inside. It is amazing when the day is out and insurmounts about a million here, ten million there, the sums that would be taken up to important projects here, and where the country, or government seminars, many members of the Parliament feel that it is not a matter to make a decision about 50 billion investments in an unpublished concept of a city line that is likely to be a real loss when business begins. They must somehow achieve the order of planning and implementation so that implementation can be carried out. It must be developed in such a way that infrastructure will not be taken hostage and government funds will not have to pay tens of millions of ransoms, as in this case, when the situation of transportation is almost unbearable in the capital area. In this context, it must be kept in mind now that this agreement by the so-called transport contract of the capital area involves the introduction of total investing to 120 billion plus all the prospective vehicles. This was accomplished by the government in some way without ensuring that a single mismanagement of the streets would be established in the capital area. This enabled the government to frame without guaranteeing that an important project like the Sunway would succeed. Various comments have been made in our discussion with members of the Central Party during the last days. I don't think it's ever been more important than right now to talk openly about how we handle the public tax money, how we approach the idea of still adding on taxation, like those involved in possible traffic andfare costs on this project and others who will discuss before the end of the council, as well as those who will be looking. We must treat people's resources with dignity and respect. It's not done in this case when it's done with the same amount, I'll let myself say, lightheartedness, and it's true of some members of the council. We can only see this from the members of the council that support this matter. Most of them have not participated in the discussion; they are few, very few. There are 50 billion people in the city line, which, if you look at history, is very likely to achieve the impact of a supporter of that idea, very little. And that no one else comes to defend the demand that cost plans be insane, that people know how they're going to run this thing, that it's not gonna end up in the state's budget at the end, I say for me that it's completely annoying. Of course, the next transport issue to be discussed at the council is the bill for the establishment of an official community where it is intended to frame this future business and structure on the basis of this agreement and the funds it has to do with it. If no fences are ever built for further application of this phenomenon in the state's budget, if it is not properly adapted that the establishment structure of the capital area will continue in a strict manner, I find the monotonous order to go with great precision and firm appreciation for the materials involved in terms of government funds and where there is a risk that the objective of the roadmaking and government and transportation and government services cannot be carried out by the cross-overs of any particular community. I wish us all the best in this matter and hope that it will go well, but I assure you that the end will be great with most aspects of the transport program as it is available in the Senate resolution proposal. And as it was in my minority mind and night. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason then accept the viewpoints expressed in the majority opinion in all the fundamentals. Except for the city line.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u5	Mr. President. Here we will discuss a matter closely related to a transport program that has been discussed in detail over the past few days. It has to face up to becoming an official part of a community to hold on to projects that face the so - called transport Convention of the capital area, which includes the to be funded by the financing of transport programmes of so-called or quick fees, as per the parties of the contract, and then by sales and conversion of state property, in this case of the Bankland and the following cases have been referred to as potential markets for state estates such as Iceland banks and possibly other federal property, if necessary. If we try to get our hands on the big picture first, all of it will disappear on the construction of transport infrastructure in the capital area. Those who have followed the discussion of the road program, which was before the issue, have no doubt about it - at least not at all. To the members of the Central Party and to various members of the Independence Party, and no doubt many, a higher proportion by how well members of Congress have stepped in - that the expense programmes available, as free as they are, will not be the real result of the total cost in the past. I don't think it's likely that the earmark specified in the transport contract to the city line of 49.7 billion will last under pressure, unfortunately. With these substances, the paces are full of terror. The development of rural society is in a way that makes projects more expensive than they need to be done. However, practical solutions can also be made if they are willing to be found, whether by means of road transport, sound, and so on. The organizational authority is a key to determine whether practicality is achieved or whether a project is substantially exceeded by the funds originally intended for them. I'll mention in this context of a project being carried out 12 in the past 14 years ago, if I recall correctly. It is the distorted Sleazynes Way below the Honnahol called and the sound protection that are like a fort wall that drivers drive along when driving below the Honundraholt. This decision was made on the basis of a crisis and agreement with the local community, in this case of Garville, to make a much more expensive implementation, but the road was considered reasonable. I mention this in the context of the fact that the community's responsibilities on this future development are high in terms of the cost side. At the Central Party, we have talked about the need to secure fences in the law on the establishment of this government, so that financial funds will not be open when it comes to the implementation of projects. We've given a lot of emphasis on the fact that this society, if it's established, will not handle the city line business, she'll be able to make it. The danger is that first, the lost business starts loading up. Last reported in the press this morning, quoted by the head of the city's office for projects, revealed that the annual cost of increase is 2 billion per year, but everything is unclear about potential revenues. With experience, I'm going to allow myself here, and now I'm going to state that this 2 billion - dollar bonus is beneath our knowledge today. I don't have the data, but the overall cost of a bus in the capital area is either 7 billion or 9 billion. Adding up the cost of 2 billion, I'm afraid that there's a modest forecast and a certain extent set to improve the image to the present position. In the bill as it is, and in some other part of the committee, the case is all too open. There's no way to handle organizational matters in a way that I, so I speak for myself, feel that it would be most sworn to finish the case as it is, simply because of the response of the representatives of this agreement have been about, for example. Indiscriminate street conventions, Daffy Ways, and other roads. So I think it's very important that we enter this case, one way or another, when people judge in a comparable way as to which progress has been achieved. I think we have to put in a particular guard, e.g. that it is not to be brought into the society, the ohf., if it is established, unless it is to form the structure of the Daffway so that the task can be made possible, that there will be a counterargument in a manner that could be taken up, and other factors might be mentioned. Eaglenes Road. We need to make sure that he gets on his way and the needed fixes run out. This is simply too open to me. You can't just watch this as a project, a bill about starting this ohf. society without looking at the overall picture because the role of this ohf. society is, of course, unorthodox. It is therefore not intended to have a future business and so forth. But, surely, business and investment are around the work being assigned to do. Another factor that needs to be framed in the bill is that what is stated in the majority of the transport and transport committee's assessment of transport programs, which soon ran out in the past. It specifically shows that local transportation is the responsibility of the local community, not the State. I'm worried that once and if the city's business is established, on the grounds of which the speakers of the project now speak, there will be a considerable yearly loss of the operation required in one way or another to bridge. I'd be surprised if my local communities, in time, do not want the help of a government fund. I'd be surprised. It's just that some people, even though they're not listed here, the parties of the agreement to frame in with this public body, have simply said that there will be a need for discussions about the management part of the project when it is established. I think it's very important that we find a way to write this in, and we make sure that any friends of the taxpayer are being heard in the process of this case and loyalty, in order to make it polite, that what fell between ships and docks in the agreement's texting will be tried to correct, either in an amendment of the case itself, or in the emphasis of the leading committee where there will be a line to form a future stock, which will probably be made in context of the Society's establishment, will be reached. However, there are some factors that have also come to the fore and that need to be considered here. It's, for example. a point that focuses on how the matter is handled, as it is suggested in the bill designed to frame this capital agreement, lament and establish a government law. With quick reading of committee data, I could not see a memo that this point had been examined specifically. But that may be so. It will only have to be considered in particular here during the discussion. Of course, if there are any instruments of this approach that are in harmony with their laws, it will upset the situation. It is incorruption only to bring it on the ground in either way it falls. If the conclusion is that this approach does not work, then there must be other ways to achieve this objective, if it is intended, beyond the proposed establishment of this organization. In addition, there is a need to be made to make clear to the community and to all that the funds for the transport network that comes through a transport programme need the confirmation of the General Assembly every year in budgetary. Then it is not important that the government's declaration of will and the local community of the capital area be written on a certain scale. It will eventually be the law of the law, as in other matters. There can be no escape. I reiterate my concerns with the budget. They move to a very large extent that they will be brought to a Kingdom store when each project begins to move ahead. If one project is being completed, it is important that another or other part of the city line be cut off because it will be maximal on the total budget, it is important that this be made clear. Not only will there be some conversation at a committee meeting but it is to emphasize the responsibility of the rural society to its organizational authority. We know how much the strategy of rural society can have for the overall cost of construction. That is equal to here in the capital area and across the country. However, the figures relevant to the construction of the capital area are in stark contrast to those we know in terms of land transport. To this I would like to mention in particular that I believe the criticism that has shown that this is in the form of a public community is valid. I believe, based on the information I have from the Committee's work, it would be reasonable for the matter to go through a discussion in which this issue would be considered specifically, whether it is less reasonable to introduce the Society, if it should be formed, as an ehf. or hf, but not as an official partner. I think that for a number of reasons, it would be wise, but at least the decision to do so is conscious. This would be logical and convincing because it is not a conventional institution for government and rural society, as in this case. I may be wrong, but I don't know other examples of such an arrangement. But if so, it would be good for us to know about it. But I don't think there's any such example in the system we live in. I make comments on this process, thinking that there's a lot of evidence to do this, well, what you can say, a creative way with a law on public societies. I suppose it's right for me to suggest to the president that the case is going on between discussions. Someone has to do it. No doubt someone will offer it to someone other than me later in the discussion, but that, at least, is in progress. Back to the factors facing the exit. First, there are great dangers in the construction phase. You can only refer to panicking. History tells us that the simplest of tasks, such as rebuilding a small hook in the cut - off area, is far beyond plan. Then you just cross yourself when you're about to take a heavy track in a long section of boxing, like a whale. paritaprevir Andersen wrote in his speech on the last Thursday of the transport program, changing road users around this area of the capital to some layer of moles. If that project becomes a simple business outside, much is changed into the environment we know so well. I think we have to build fences to protect the government funds in this case. We need to install a guard who makes sure that certain organizational goals are met. It is not available for stratosphere packs of 120 billion, as well as for possible forward run, to the point of view, e.g. To form the views that have come from the city of Reykjavík, the road around the wall is not a way to restore hope within this sloth. They are not secretive, just for the fact that Reykjavíkurburg's interest in allowing a mild word to be spoken of by a minor street crossing within the city. Very limited. So I think we have to write these elements into this bill. This may be a provision that will follow when the requirements are met in organizational matters. However, there has to be some incentive for the rural population to be pushed forward in terms of founding initiatives. I can honestly say for my part that for them I'm worried inside this package all. I'm sure I'm worried about light control too. I'm not worried about footpaths and bicycle tracks. Everything will continue to work well, while it is not the way of trying to get in the stockway by putting bicycle trails in striped places, with that in mind. But I'm worried about what's going on here. In this agreement, which is being negotiated with the establishment of this share, of September 26, 2019, specific projects are listed under section 5, which is called Acceleration. It speaks of traffic control, Sea Road, Grand Way, Eaglenes Road, City line, another grand road block, there's a lot of stocks, a job on Smokejanes Way, and Hafnarfjörður Road, a city line about Kldur and Bolgland, a roadside roadside road. Nowhere in all this arrangement, probably seven pages, are the discrepancies referred to as one word. I'm afraid that when it comes to fighting over the exports selected, the Vega type will be represented in a very weak position to force the best solutions to the traffic flow necessary to pass through there and to flow freely in both directions on the Smokey Way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u6	A respectable president. There is good reason to be concerned about how this package will work out. I believe that it's set up a fine guard, like a whale. A senator mentioned. I would like to ask him if our understanding of a few things is not comparable. In my opinion, his speech made it clear that all of this was very vague. First of all, he says that the road will be in a weak position toward the city of Reykjavík. But there will be a special government over the project. The secretary of finance commands more than one part of the government and the other from the city of Reykjavík, to the next seven members of the administration. Do we not agree on this? So this has nothing to do with the roadmaking. Do we not agree that the State's main projects in this area have extra lanes for public transportation within the capital area? We have not made planning of the aspects of the transportation system in the capital of our rural communities. Do we not agree that this will mark the end of the years in which these vast and vital means of transportation in the capital? Do we not agree that the arrangement has set aside the waterway that has been set aside in recent years? Do we not agree that it is a revised law that includes? Regarding the failure of the treaty, what will not be the result of the organizational fulfillment of the communities? Do we not agree that it is absolutely conditioned that the State is not involved in the cost of business at all? A senator? He's been taken care of by the locals. I'll do it for now, but I'm good enough to take.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u7	Mr. President. I would've liked to. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson left his question center so I could run through it. So I'll try to go through this fast first about how the planning procedures are going to be handled. The deal says, with President's permission: It should be noted that the authority of the company does not violate local self-determination or their rights and duties according to special regulations, such as organizational laws. It is clear there that the local community's situation is very strong in rejecting the wrongs on the Buddhist road and Smokejanes Ways. With regard to the current revision regulations. There are three paragraphs in section 7 of the Convention on the Review Regulation. Two of them are to form, with the permission of the president, to ensure the development and implementation of the agreement in accordance with its objectives, including Article 3. The agreement to implement the implementation of the programme. This should all work out for the implementation of the programme. The next paragraph says, by permission of the president, that under such circumstances as reviewed, the objective of discussions is to ensure that the strategy will be carried out as far as possible. It is written directly into the capital agreement on the outcome. This seems completely incorrigible to me. Then I'd like to point out a paragraph in the agreement, which says, and on that basis, I believe that we should build the writing of a certain fence, a further guard in organizational matters, by permission of a president: The organization's joint organisation will be established as commitments and the roles of the state and partner of the community. You know, about things like that. A senator came in, that the project, the treaty fell if organizational matters were not taken out of the way, then I have not found it, either in the agreement, in the bill, or in the committee's opinion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u8	A respectable president. In fact, it's the understanding I'm putting into it, and I can say that there's a reason to take the case into consideration to challenge these issues. But that's just what I asked earlier. I asked to film on the Daffy Way. She's on the agenda. It has not been possible to talk to Reykjavík in the past few years, but it has become quite clear that the waterway is part of this agreement. There is also a great list of tasks in this agreement that have not been included at the city of Reykjavík in recent years. That's why I'm saying that after years of stopping, there's a window. How we must agree on this. There's a reexamination principle in this, and I consider it to be part of, if it doesn't work out, the agreement has been made. The cost of work, I asked about him. Hv. A senator did not answer that question. But is that not quite clear, and we came into this too in a transport plan, that we have nothing to do with business? Farmers have to fix it up with themselves. Of course, it is serious that there is no business model for this when it is scheduled to present the seat of a bus bus next week at Reykjavíkurburg, but there is no business model. Many criticisms can be accepted, and they are entitled. Only with regard to the cost plan. [[The president calls.]] Can we not agree that the cost strategy in this context is just the same as when we are working on a transport cost plan? It is anticipated that at times pain will become more severe, sometimes more expensive. [[The president calls.]] But for now we do not have something else to eat. Of course, this will be appreciated by society's administration, and because cost plans have not been passed, tasks have been thrown out of parentheses and have been postponed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u9	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I think, basically, we agree on the most important aspects of this matter. But because of him. A senator asked about the Sunway, whether it was finally on the program now, so it is true, but it has, of course, been on the schedule since the early year 2000, so it was a great march. I think if there's gonna be a formulaized leading committee, then there's good reason to make a special decision on the bottom line. Of course, it is true that we are getting away from the construction stop that has been at the footway of the capital area. But I've put it in the context of a kind of ransom that a government fund has to pay in the form of a city line in order to get on with the footways in the capital area. With regard to the cost of business, and the excuse for my fast speech, I just want it to be put on trial, so there's no misunderstanding there that investments don't come from government funds and government funds don't come up against society's business. This is very clear in some committees in a transport program, but it's not quite so clear here. Of course, when it comes to spending costs, it is of utmost importance whether the entire budget for the project is a complete roof or if the State will participate in the forward drive in its own time. [[The president calls.]] It's not clear as it is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u10	A respectable president. You can make a comment to a lot of things in this speech. We have to pick out a little bit here. I wanted it to be totally clear from what. A senator's place of organization was first discussed, a tiny piece of work, in the talk. Based on the cost-and-improvement analysis we have, these projects, in view of the range being going on, about 5 billion per year - 4.6 perhaps or something like that, can actually be precisely calculated, and without the environmental impacts and environmental costs, which are most likely more likely improved by the cost of operating costs of 2 billion. There certainly is a problem. A senator points to and concerns the income of his community. The entire effort is expected to land more in the state rather than in the income of the company as such, which could be used for the benefit of a business on the Company. There's something in general that is missing for the rurals, reevaluating local income institutions. That's one of the things that needs to be done a little bit better. One thing that was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. For example, a senator was a legal entity of some classes. It is very clear in all this process that, after all, financial, transport, and financial contributions to the Society would be tax, and it would always go through the government funds to the company. Finally, what are jumps other than a huge misdirection of the road? There's a lot of mixed streets in this deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u11	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer is for Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I'm gonna let me answer the question about the cost analysis last time because I couldn't quite figure it out and wait. A senator repeating it if I'm wrong. But first, you ask me why. A senator with regard to organizational authority: Where should it lie? The Organization rests with the rural communities under national law, but here it is developing an agreement, and in the agreement it accounts for projects limited by rural society, they commit themselves to make certain organizational arrangements on the basis of an agreement. No one makes 120 billion treaties without any part commitment in organizational matters. Hv. A senator came into my statement on a way of handling funds. In this context, I'd like to conduct a review of the transport contract, which includes the permission of a president: If a discussion is considered in the opinion of the parties for review, they should determine the measures and measures required to ensure the progress and implementation of the agreement in accordance with its objectives, including Article 3. The agreement to implement a implementation plan as possible. In the event of an unforeseen external situation, the objective of discussions should be to ensure that implementation of the programme is carried out as possible. I've never seen a contract tied down like this in terms of an agreement or a discussion. Hv. A member of the body also asks: " What are jumps other than the misdirected corners of the street? It is quite a view to suggest just as indiscriminate the corners of this box. But I'm afraid the cost of this deck will be very high. I think the greatest environmental improvement there is in all of this would be if we immediately put a full budget into increasing the light control system of the capital area, thereby reducing the time of cars being stopped at the corners of the road.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u12	A respectable president. I don't think it's possible to speed round by light control anything enormously more, yes perhaps if there was a little more poured into it, it can be. But that's top priority, right there, according to what I know. The government has more than one share in this group, as just happened here. A greater proportion of committees make it clear that any variation in individual activities should be reported to the council. If there is an abnormality, please report to the server immediately. Thewelvement is and will always be the case when it comes to all of this. And it's a cost commitment, too. That must be what the organization is all about. There is a cost analysis of all these projects, the magnitude of this is about 120 billion or so. The commitment that we are going to organize within this charge must really be made to commitments in the organizational matters. In other words, contract agreements may have to be made aware that something goes wrong within six months.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u13	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The answer is for Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson. I don't think there was any question later in answer to what. A senator, but I just wanted to come on a point he started on and turned to light control as a priority. I'm here with the implementation plan. In fact, I'm for some mistake just for the first ten years of fifteen. This doesn't make any difference because I remind you that over the next five years, the same image about traffic controls, increased traffic flows, and safety measures. The ignorance of this plan is what would be called a retraction. They are considerably lower per year during the first five years than in six to ten years. There is no indication that a special focus is on the priority. Nothing in the evidence, as it is now, points to that. Now we wait for that, and I assume there will be some next few days, that there will be a light control report all over the foreign countries. [[The president calls.]] In itself, I eagerly wait for a discussion about it when it is presented. But it is clearly clear from the projection programme here that light control is not in priority. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u14	Mr. President. I'd like to start by asking why. A senator's feelings for public associates in general because he talked about them here and the possible deterioration in all of them. They may now seem to be the main reason why Reykjavíkurburg may not be able to handle money, and it must be relieved of his concern to know that the agreement is with six rural communities, of which five are directed by the independent party and that these two groups have been agreed on in transport policy. But I wanted to ask about the communities in general because if it was. A senator is concerned about how public society in general manages to carry out such a task, so I share with him a certain part of it. In particular, I refer to what we both know about our work on the Environment and Transport Committee, which are the declines of Iceland's e-mails over the past few years, as well as the losses of the Icelandic taxpayers. So, from this particular case, I wonder, which is the authority to establish an official body of structure to honor this agreement of six major corporations and the State, whether public societies are the right option here. It is clear that this partner structure was formed to enhance business flexibility and increase transparency. Examples have somehow at least too many people have been different. In case of a moment. A senator is confident that he will step aside from this particular subject and focus on the outside I am interested in discussing the responsibility of our senators when it comes to public members because, in this case, often 100%, in this case 75%, is at the financial minister, he is in our charge, and we have the authority to attend the main meetings, ask questions, and observe. Since we have not been able to care for other public societies, I would be interested in hearing them reflect on public societies in general in that light. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u15	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Frirduk's Friðriksson for an excellent and interesting inquiry, and I trust the president will allow me to speak for ten minutes to answer. - No, it's not. If we take the subject of this case outside and talk about the public society as form, I can honestly say that I don't think it worked out the way it was suggested at the beginning when this form of society was introduced. I think we should make a complete review, just at the next council, if there's any reason to go back. I think there's a chance there's a chance that your partner plan will be canceled. I don't think it went well. I don't think any senators believe that this rule has been met with the objective of transparency and monitoring. Hv. A senator mentioned Iceland's e-mail in that context. Another company that could be listed is Istavia, who is involved in the time when income flows are completely dead to take over new ones and the operation of certain international airports without any income being paid to support the requirements established by the Society. It's very strange, on the other hand, how these communities are handled, such as in this case of Istavia and the songs on it, and on the other hand, the transparency and information duty are something that I allow me to say has not been successful. I feel that way, and before then I spoke up, I mentioned it in my speech. A member of the council came to see that there would be a review of the discussions on the committee as to whether this case should simply be overstepped, if the Society should be formed, into ehf. or hf. from the hf. form.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u16	Mr. President. I want to talk to you about moles. I understand that earlier in this discussion there was why. paritaprevir Sigurry on. Andersen gave a rather tight talk, which, of course, referred less to subject matter but more about things and beings like moles and then not necessarily as desirable creatures. When this vision of better public transportation and better and environmental transport in general had become a reality, the capital population had become a mole. Now I'm going to answer the senator who probably knows the best of what he's doing, lives on Aquilin, and drives back at least daily. If there is a very short spot on a grand path - and I am especially asking because during the last few days, members of the Middle Party have had a sharp start. paritaprevir So, Bergethóri Ólason, including, referred to this term, moles, end of scurvy men -- that is to be put in stocks makes capital citizens a mole, I just wanted to ask. A senator who drives the Waffles at least two times a day usually: How does it feel, and is it any fear? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u17	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I suppose I would be in this context of some sort of catfish after the explosions that were needed to get under Halfanda and the cheerleaders below the sea. I'd like to maintain that in all my talks about the road program, which, of course, were too few, I didn't mention a mole's point. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen, who were just perfect. [[Up front.]] No, actually, I came into it in my speech earlier. What I'm worried about is the nature of construction in urban areas, the cost plan of a project like this, which, for example, is that the crumbling level is going to be quite massive, and the cost plans will eventually be a little in terms of the percentage we know from the shock project, and I'm just trying to talk as a friend to the taxpayers. I'm very worried about this, that this is an overexploitable task that is being done there, and, of course, it's going to take care of who owns the country, who gets the money, and so on the streets. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's details, but I'm sure the moles don't have it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u18	Mr. President. What does a broke mayor who sits in the financial ruin of Iceland's capital and a desperate sum of money to fulfill his campaign promise, which is likely to be the largest campaign campaign available for several elections in Iceland, not just once, but twice? The election stocks were set up for extensive displays of a vehicle that resembled train cars. People in sunshine could be seen stepping up into vehicles, and the railroad tracks could be seen shining beneath them. When the mayor sees that he doesn't stand a chance of having an election plan, what does he do, Mr. President? He's calling a friend. Who's the mayor's friend in this case? Who is the person who is going to accept to finance this wild campaign for the mayor of Reykjavík, who, in fact, was struck twice but raised up just as hard by the slovenly people? Yes, it's the Independence Party that's going to finance this campaign plan. Mr. President. There's an American word for this. The Independence Party, with a military secretary of finance, is going to be the mayor's sugar pop, in this case, and everything's under control. Selling the most precious property of the capital area, the Netherlands, is abdicating its organizational authority in every way, and it is expected to contribute 50 billion dollars. from government funds to projects in the years ahead, and for what? To meet the mayor's campaign plans for the more important part of Reykjavík. Outside all of this, an official partner is to be put. And I must say, Mr. President, that immediately there ring the alarm. Now to take another issue, tore it from elected representatives, and to put it behind closed doors of a public community, which is well meant, Mr. President, has proved shocking in Iceland to date. All I have to do is give you two examples, RUS and the mail. In public communities, Mr. President, the information will be closed, it will not be available. The council is now, if I don't scurry, asking for the calculated cost of the new government body, which is the building of a new land hospital. I haven't had the answer to that inquiry in order to find out. I don't think that's coming. Sports don't just scare, they panic when they record it. Hv. paritaprevir The power hall in this matter from elected representatives to the Conspiracy Society, Davíð Gunnlaugsson, gave much thought to how all the government's resources in the programmes and actions they are promoting are going to be employed here by some government official who will be expected to be hired there. Some aspects of the deal made last fall bring my attention. At the end of a goal, the first point is to promote legal, efficient, safe transport in the capital area, with the same structure for all transport. But this is not the time to work. It's, for example. not being working on this plan for the Watermier airport, Mr. President. He's being squeezed up until he's gone, and that's not good. It also says that one of the factors that will contribute to achieving government climate targets on sustainable, non-carbon-communications is a transport sharing system. I must ask, Mr. President, how does a transport shared economy contribute to a non-carbon society? The economic system in transport is, as far as I know, a device known as Uber in foreign lands. If they could get on here, the number of rent cars that normally drive would increase dramatically. How should the number of vehicles in this area contribute to a lack of carbon? This is not good news to me. Direct contribution will be 2 billion a year for 15 years, 30 billion in direct contribution. All of a sudden, Mr. President, this morning we've been talking about urban planning costs and there's not much going to happen to management plans, a small story in the morning, saying that the annual cost of the urban business will be $3 billion. Finally, the number came to the surface. Bustos has the same report as 7 billion. There's no experiment in this story, perhaps end up space, to explain how, in what, where and how. What we know is that for the next 15 years there will be two transport systems in Reykjavík, the bus, and the city line. It's been amazing to find out what the city line really is. In the opening slides, the curtains, it reminded me of a light train, but fortunately it is now seen that it is not a light train, but it does not have room for it. However, what scares people is that this is to be said to speed up the movement of those using public transportation because red carpets are being drawn all over the city in the priority range for these cars. I think it is finally discovered that the two buses are likely to be the size of two buses and that they will be taken up by larger space and blown off by air. They may be powered by electricity. That means that the winter and the food we're making and having too much of it won't get to work there, but it's very damaging. There would have been an ideal opportunity to do that. It will not be used. It is evident in this agreement that it is done between two parties, the one receiving and the one paying. It's like the lead figure of the party because it's only graded here to put two streets in a box, a major highway on a large part, and a Seatrack from all places. There's a lot of space around the Seaway. But no, it shall also be in stocks, and the kingdom shall pay. I must be concerned that the words of the fine senator who spoke before me and not only him but also the professor of the son of Jónas, the son of Elíasson, who strongly warns that building on the Grand Way, at Klambraun, and nearby, will be extremely difficult. The law needs to be read down through a lot of songs, and in the ground, of course, it's a moor, Mr. President. It's going to be a real challenge, and I think it's very unrealistic. But that's just what's here in many ways, the cost figures are high. What is also missing in this agreement is the arrangement for the Dizziness Course. It was in the opposite direction. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín's Friðriksson earlier asked a fine senator who comes every day from Ak Aranei to see if driving a heavy track was not a difference. But if there was a poolway, this would be the dog. I don't suppose a senator would drive a heavy track, he'd drive a Daffy Road and set up somewhere in Saturday. True, it has been destroyed very much because the Diving Road has been sold on this side, i.e. The pitside side, to the sheep farmers who have built it so tight that no one can get between them except the flying bird, as was said of Búkolla. But it is obvious that this state is here to clean up and help our fine capital, who is in financial trouble. Then a new country is to be built under a traffic trawler, and I actually thought that there was something we weren't going to do now, but yes, a new country is to be placed under the line of city, through Köldnaholt and Bolkagland. That's what I thought, Mr. President, we weren't meant to do. I thought we were going to work on the city line to the main roads and infrastructure we have in the area, but it's not. I put it in a speech here I think yesterday, possibly twice, that it's hard to see how a city line is going to work, e.g. No. 1 mile [13 km] from Cape of the north to Hamraborg in Kópavogur, south, with a round drive around the capital area, a total of 13 miles [13 km]. This rejuvenating line is to stop at 20 or 25 locations along the way at this 13 - km, and then I say again, Mr. President: If you plan to make a quick trip this way, you'll probably be quite disappointed in driving this 13 - mile [13 km] passenger if he's traveling from Cape and South in Hamburg. Mr. President. This fears me most, and I was most shocked by the excellent discussions that have taken place here during the recent development of the two transport programmes. There were some things that may not have been fully understood before, and one appeared last week when a great show was set up in the city line and city council show. This is from the introduction that this picture of my trip from Cape to Hamraburg, Kópavogi, is obtained. On this route, these wagons, which I don't think I'm lying about, are as big as I've described, are to drive down Waffles Street, Savile Street, and Scotland Road. I'm asking myself, Mr. President, how are these giant cars going to make it this way? Since then, Bill's Street has been properly built. There's people moving in, people with children, and there's going to be constant traffic for these beastlike things up and down the street from morning to night. That, Mr. President, is a concern. I'm going to make it clear that we middle class are not opposed to public transportation, no matter what. One of the party's main elections for last mayor's election was that there would be no currency in the street. This would be an experiment to see what such a thing would mean, such as a cutting off on expenses, because we are, i.e. Government funds, over nine years, have spent 9 billion to get the use of public transportation in the capital area from 4% to 4%. We have spent 9 billion in nine years to no avail. That's what I'm afraid of, Mr. President. Now, if I understand correctly, it's to get this percentage up to 12% which is very respectable. In order to protect this money, 15 billion, 30 billion from the State and the value of the Kaldnaland sale, a total of 45 billion. However, this is in line with the development and cost of the project. I must say, Mr. President, in view of what has been seen so far by the cost-presidents and executives, that I am very afraid that these plans will not stand. I'm very afraid the agreement isn't well covered, and the government funds aren't well worth it. I'm very afraid of that. I repeat, it may be the worst of all the bad things to make this agreement and this business and this business of the public society. This may be just another example of government failure. They dare not make decisions, they sell their authority to those who do not have to be comparable to politicians who are responsible for their actions. Whatever politicians say, though, they go to staff interview every four years, right? The voters we're working for, they have a chance to tell us whether we're in the winter when we're put away or not. There is no such thing for rulers in the official community on public transportation in Reykjavík. The result or how it will be, whether it will be overworked or what, will be little matter. This will not change their condition. On the other hand, all the taxpayers in Iceland have the cost, with the expense that may not be satisfied. With these words, Mr. President, I finish my first speech in this discussion, but I have a feeling that there might be more.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u19	Mr. President. I'm going to put in a little more words about the bill we have here, but we're going to talk about permission to establish an official central transport community in the capital area. A member of the Central Party on the budget board, huh? paritaprevir Þórarinsson's children, gave a detailed special sheet about the bill, so he rejoiced that there may have been a solution to the development of transport in the capital area for the future. There are many unscrupulous and much work to be done, and it is long time to start carrying out transportation in the capital area for the better. We in the Central Party are glad that we've moved on that matter, and we've come a long time. On the other hand, we feel that the strategy for a city line is unattractive, that the project is costly and does not result in the practicality required. We don't think that's the taxpayer's money, Mr. President. That's the point. We're here to criticize these ideas legitimately, have found some factors about the city line, and not to be unfashioned, apparently. The cost of taxpayers is to be met by tens of millions of projects, and it is not just this stock cost, which is highly underestimated by many people, but may also become part of the local community and even the state. Ideas and projections are limited, as was clearly shown in an article on the core that was written by the Encyclopaedia, a traffic Hjaltason. There he described ideas about the city line and the presentation on the site of the project, as a propagandaist. Mr. President. It's not good, if we're discussing the government's budget for the various projects, that we're running for some propaganda, that there's some idea based on vague ideas, that we're running until we don't have a lot of criticism. Therefore, I believe that the discussion that we in the Central Party have brought here at the council is very timely. Happily, some have agreeed, and fortunately, those who know best, engineers, and intelligent ones have made their way of life in these last days. I'm celebrating this discussion, and I think everyone should welcome that discussion, for there could be tips that could lead to a better or more successful solution in this matter. The fact is, we all want, I have at least Don't listen to anyone who objects that this is a powerful public transportation. Nobody's been here and talked against them in general. A smaller section of the budget committee believes that tens of billions of dollars in this part of the project is incorruption, and in particular, it says that there is no plan for it. Of course, it's very strange, Mr. President. In the private sector, many people who are involved in business, business, or other business ventures do not go into business unless they try to determine which income will be and what the expenses will be and whether they will earn money or pay by going into such a business. There is not a few shoppers that have not worked this out before he decides to buy that kind of business. It's amazing that we're going into business on such a massive system - and they call it high-tech and have some of these words about this, those who are studying the city line; the project is very important and ambitious in their mind and should compete with what best happens abroad - without putting down on us which income could become and less money. In fact, we know pretty much what our income could be because there are 4% of those who use public transportation. It may be possible to think that it can be increased to 5% or even 6% and possibly 8%, and it can be set to the level of income coming from the use, the number, the frequency of travel, etc., given the basis for the application. But that is not a concern. What are the expenses? How much is it gonna cost to fire this thing? How much do these wagons cost? What is the maintenance cost of these cars, what is the pay, the maintenance expenses, the renewal costs, etc.? And what about maintaining the system itself, i.e. The perforation system, these red carpets that are supposed to be under these wagons? No one worries about it. Why is that not a concern? We're the custodians of state funds, and I think we should take it seriously. I don't think we should agree to take on such massive projects when there's not something as important as what the business will be like. During a previous discussion of the transportation program, some spoke up. Councilmen: What business is it with us? What's that got to do with you? Is that your problem? Is that our problem? Yeah, I say. It's our problem, it's the problem of all the rural communities in the capital area. As far as I'm concerned, the government fund has put a lot of money on public transportation for the past decade, so, of course, it's our business. Is it to be so easy for people that they are just going through some project without thinking about it to the end? What's the deal when it's over? Then we'll have to fire it. And we continue to drive the old system, the modern bus system, because they're supposed to pass the currents to people, these 4% who use public transportation, so they're going to stay in business. How much? What is the income, and what are the expenses? We worry about this, and we think it's right. We feel that the taxpayers owe it to us to think about this and talk about it and spend time here at the General Assembly instead of jumping some idea, giving it over, and taking no notice of what happens when it's done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u20	Mr. President. We are finally talking about the establishment of public society and the construction of transport timber in the capital area. The signal stage was recently reached, and all of the rural areas in the capital area reached a significant agreement on the construction of transport infrastructure in the capital area. There comes a large part of the political community, and it will be reported that all these members and the state are meeting for the role of the capital site. It is long time for us to look forward to the future and to build solid road transport that will take into account future demands on climate transport and the need for society to build sound and efficient public transportation. At the same time, of course, it is important to consider that automobiles get through the capital area. Even now, we need to be careful that in the face of most predictions, automobiles will grow considerably in the coming years and decades, although it may be difficult to predict the future far. So we need to do what we can to encourage the common people to choose a different route of transportation. And that is exactly what it involves. in this contract, with high emphasis on public transportation, footpaths, cycle paths, etc. I think it's necessary to do all of this together. There's been a lot of discussions about one aspect of the matter primarily, the projects that go under the title of the city line. Many things have been said there, and perhaps not all of them very well considered. However, I expect that men have shown up here on long and large talks everything they consider to be a guardian of the case. There have been fewer individuals who have taken up this discussion, since one group has monopolized it with criticism and even criticism. has the power to extend the council. Anyway. People have the right to speak and talk according to events. However, I think it's a very good case, and it's very important that we agree with this bill, which assumes that we will establish a partner for all the projects to keep them in mind. The Society is part of the agreement made between the state and the countryside, and it is absolutely necessary to have shapes for all these projects, their funding, their organization, the provision of the land, and so on. It is requested that this association be developed so that preparation can be started, and later carried out, strongly in line with the transport agreement that reaches the capital area. In this regard, financial issues have been cited, and there have been friends of taxpayers who claim to be such. I suppose it involves other members of the council being enemies of taxpayers and only those in this way are the interests of the taxpayers and those who want to have money done. Of course not. Public funds should always be handled well. The expenses should always be carefully monitored. There should always be plan carefully, and there should always be room to make changes if there is a problem. I don't see that with the institution of this company and that the transport agreement will be implemented if they are compromised by targets. But it is true that public funds should always be handled well. That is true in this assignment, as is true of all others. I'm not gonna say a lot. I think it's very important that the company become a reality. The government and the ministries have made an agreement on the necessary frame and the necessary setting. I think it's time to be careful here at the High Council to take any steps or take any action that upsets this agreement and needs to be taken care of. What a tragedy it would be if this assignment were not to be started and could not be accomplished! So I'll back up the case and hope we'll be out of here in a very short time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u21	A respectable president. I must admit that I am relatively fresh from a meeting, so I could not keep track of all the discussions that have taken place today. I also missed the discussion on Saturday, as well as the majority of yesterday's discussion. In fact, I was lucky enough to be on the President's chair for a few minutes and to hear speeches. Central Party senators, happy memories. I'm going to talk about city lines and public transportation in general. I'm glad to have two of them. The members of the Central Party go into the conference room, three even, it gets better and better, four even, I'll let it go. [[For example, consider: Four members of Parliament.]] I've noticed one thing in the discussions I've heard and observed, not only at the council, but also in the community, about the city line. I've talked to one person outside the community about it, both people who are very opposed to the city line and people who are very opposed to it, and people who are somewhere between us that I think most people are the best to say, despite the importance of this mission and this class. Here comes my limited analysis, based on my intelligence and limited ability to draw conclusions from the part of the universe that is available to me: I don't think it really revolves around the city's cost. It doesn't seem like it's really about whether people approve of the bus or what the bus feels like. I think it's about time and culture. You see, in the 20th century, I think Iceland made it to the pothole, about the same time as the private car called, sometimes called the family car, now that I enjoy, which evolved very quickly. Very wide and extensive uptake and use of this vehicle along with technological development and, I want to mean, cultural development of Iceland. This, in my opinion, makes it a relatively large part of the Icelanders, and especially the Smokelanders, overrated the importance of being on the so - called private car, overrated by the importance of being on the so - called family car as it is sometimes called, and has a strong tendency to minimize other advantages. I think this is here because we've been feeling a little sorry for the weather in this country, something I think at least these days and the last years, in my adult life, without cause. That's at least much worse in other cities I have lived in, and at times, I find it a bit amusing to listen to people complain about the bad weather. It's cool in Reykjavík, too, in winter, it's all too dark, but you don't change it. It's an area that's got storms. It's raining and blasting and it's cold abroad. It is snow, crumb, sharks, and also slags abroad, in streets used by fine people, middle - aged people who have come to a good place after their lifetime, wearing ties and suits, and even, a respectable president, with a baby carriage, to think. It just doesn't seem like anything to take place, but in Iceland, we feel a little trapped in the thought that there's a really bad option for a bus. I also notice that the complaint comes primarily from those who never use bus or who have not used bus for 30 to 40 years. That's why I'd like to say to my friends in Iceland who are very against the city: give it a chance. Just try to take a bus. It's okay, it's gonna be fine. Do you usually arrive on time? Nothing ever. Sometimes you face a traffic crisis or traffic jam, a traffic crisis is a good term that you should use more. Sometimes something happens that keeps you from going, and it can just happen in the bus and when you're on a bicycle, just like when you're on the so - called family car. It's just a part of life, a respectable president. I find something quite remarkable when it comes to how much time it should take to take the bus and what it seldom takes, and all of this: if someone has to come to a meeting, and say that the person lives in downtown or in the gang or whatever, somewhere in the Aquifers, or in the Hafnarfjörður, what does the person do? Yes, he just plans accordingly and doesn't consider it a matter of choice. When do we hear people who arrive late at committee meetings excuse themselves by living in Hafnarfjördur? It's not like that, a respectable president, because people simply plan their time in line with the transportation they use at a time. Likewise, if you are on a bicycle, if you are on a car, also if you are on foot. I think this is something we forget to do in Icelandic culture because the private car, or the family car, or what we should call it, has been the focus of transportation. People have always had to plan only one option, especially the so - called family car. But once there are more advantages, more possibilities, these things need to be rethinked. It's okay, then you just do it. I sometimes tease my friends by saying that I feel that the fare in a bus is too low. It is mostly designed to tease them, but it would mean nothing to me. I notice during the discussion that there is a great requirement for a free bus to be held. I'm not going to go against it directly, but I'd like to see some sort of cost analysis. I understand that there have been many tests, and that would just not turn out to be very wise. But where does the requirement come from, a respectable president? The bus is already a very cheap option. I know it from experience. I have a car, I use bus, I have an electric shot, I walk, I use cabs from time to time, actually less or less because the rest of the things I have access to have become good. Where, though, does the requirement to keep the bus free come from? I don't think it's due to concern for people who can't afford to take a bus. First of all, they get discounts, elderly people, and poor people, on the bus. We might even have free passage for those groups in the bus, perhaps that would be a solution. But that does not solve the problem because it is not the problem people are trying to solve when they suggest that they have free clothes on the bus. What I hear when someone proposes to have a bus free is: Bus is nothing. That's why I don't agree with you, Mr. Honorable President. Second, it is somehow assumed that bus is such a lost option that it is only for people who cannot possibly own or run a family car. I disagree with that, too. I reiterate that I don't object to lowering the fare to a bus or even removing it if it's wise, but that's not the problem. The problem that needs to be solved is a mental and cultural problem that focuses on people's attitude toward public transportation, especially on the street, and on how they have been exasperated by how the bus works, and sometimes crazy, while the family car is a busy man for reasons I'm not sure because I personally think it's more fun to listen to a radio or a radio or a radio or even music or read something while I'm going between Reykjavík and harboring ground rather than to stare at the malbik, just to make the trip. But it's just me. As we look forward to transport, I feel that we should also look to climate. There's another thing I think would distinguish a little bit of bus support and opposers, i.e. how serious people take climate change, how much they think people are responsible for climate change, and most important, how much they think they are driving and other means of transportation. When it comes to climate change, everything we do is important. Despite the relatively long distances and only the improvement, I assume, it is still expensive, and it does not change because more and more cars are always needed on the streets compared to passengers simply because they are big and needy. Public transport is less likely, i.e. when used. By the way: At times, I noticed in one of the talks, that no one uses bus, there are empty cars all over the house, something like that. First of all, it's just not right. They are naturally empty when there is nothing to do, just as the streets are sometimes easy when no one is driving them. They are e.g. In general, at three and five o'clock in the morning, not when people are going to work or school or on their way home and not to bus. This is how it should be, so it is normal. Besides, now you've been blessed with more priority lanes for the bus, you can be quicker on the bus than in the crowded family car, because the bus comes to a path that the famous family car cannot get. Without exception, when I conduct this talk online, I hear people who feel that they cannot use bus. These people are often very angry for reasons that I'm not sure, but I have a theory about why they're angry. People are angry because they generally do not want to do so. Therefore, it is not easy for people to gossip about their affairs without being familiar with them. And it is true that I do not know the transportation of every person in Reykjavík, of course not. Each individual must be tested individually. If they move or their children change a day's home or school or something like them, we need to reevaluate the benefits that are right for us, and this is a cultural point for us to get used to. It's all right to live in one place, to use the bus in some other place. You can. Electric fires can be used today very much. If there's a complicated concept, then that wheel that's become popular and brilliant in my opinion is electric. Each of us needs to make an assessment. I'm not going to reiterate a story I gave in my earlier talk about taking a baby from the northern part of the Hostage up to the edge of a town of the year, and then I went back to town and arrived home and returned home and arrived at nine o'clock. I could have come to a meeting if the council hadn't been on vacation. I have, in fact, reviewed the story, contrary to what I was going to do. But it wasn't that easy, considering where I lived at that time, considering where my baby was taking care of my time and the location where I worked at that time. It may well have been impossible if my work had been located elsewhere, e.g. of Grafar Bay. Perhaps it would have been much more difficult. That may well be so. Each case should be evaluated individually according to the individual situation. There's nothing wrong with that. There's nothing wrong with that. All I'm asking is to give it a chance, but don't plan in advance that the bus is a hopeless option just because the bus has built up pessimism for decades over the way the bus was 1970 or something like it. It's not like that any more. He's different today and, in my opinion, he's the most needed assembly, a good option. I say for myself, I'm on fine income, as people should know, I have a car, I could use a car, but I'd rather use a bus because it's more comfortable. I don't just do it because it's cheaper, though it may have something to do with it, but not really. I think I'd pay more for using bus because it's more comfortable. There's something you can do in the bus. It is possible to read on long trips, as I had to get used to in time, some 40 to 45 minutes'journeys. You can only hang on the computer and work, read, program, or whatever people do on computers these days. I can't do that when I'm in a car. I think being in a car is the fastest waste of time. Even if the drive may be a few minutes shorter than some bus fare, time will be completely time - consuming. You sit behind the wheel and you watch a worm. If people are too distracted, they put themselves and other people at risk. Why make such effort? Why not relax in the bus? At least give it a chance. Perhaps this doesn't work for you, dear observer, good and good, but it works for more people than they do, and it could work much better if, or when, as I allow myself to say, the advice of experts on how to change the area and the area of the bus so that it would be more suitable for a much larger group of people. But then comes another part of the discussion, which is also very strong, I think, in the human soul. It is to assume that by improving one's interests, it is necessary to weaken another's interests. That's not how reality works, Mr. Honorable President. For someone to gain something does not mean that there is another loss. You can make an even better bus bus ride without getting it to car transportation. It may not always be like that, and it's okay. However, there is a lack of parallel evidence, and there are many things that arise. First, construction projects that simply increase the capacity of roads and that also change their nature so that the bus will not be easier with something that was not so easy for him before. If more people start using bus, they obviously clean up areas on the streets of private cars and the traffic can be reduced, for example. It's not obvious that if we add to the bus, we'll hold the only car. It's not like that. Another factor that is very strong in a human soul is to rebel against being told how to live your life. I understand that, a respectable president of the United States, being a Pirati, and an unknown character accordingly. I don't like that I'm told how to live my own life. Actually, I'm not involved, and I'm likely to rebel just to prove that I'm taking my own life and not arguing about it. Then I understand very well, if people get the feeling that they're treading a bus down their throats, tearing it off their own private car, and something like that. But that's just not what the city line is all about or what a changed organization is all about. I know that there are people in every political struggles that say different kinds of bold and crazy things and, of course, there are some street supporters and city supporters who can say something that makes people feel this way. But that's not the goal of a city line. However, it is the objective of the city line and of the city of Reykjavík in general to reduce emissions. We have to. We're in a hurry. It's not to take any of them away, it's just the situation we're in. Climate change is a real threat, and it's weird to have to be somehow talking about it in the pantheon of Allalgis, it's just supposed to be there. A large part of a person's fault is that we can do certain things in it and have to do certain things about it. That means sacrifice for all of us. That also means fewer bus trips. That means less stuff. That's the way it is. It's no fun to say. It's not fun to listen to it, and it's no fun to listen to someone tell you that you have to have less stuff or use less of your car or my bus or do less of what you want to do. But it's just the world we live in, a respectable president, that we don't get everything we want. When we put too much money out, we sometimes owe more than we can pay back, and that's where we're already in the process of climate change. We've taken out more money than we can figure out, and we have to make a real effort to avoid disaster. In fact, in my opinion, we're past that time. We're going to experience a lot of disasters caused by climate change in this century, and I'd like to say they're already porting. It's hard, actually impossible, to handle one thing, and to say that it actually triggers climate change. Just as if someone has lung cancer, you can't say that it has to be because they have indirect smoking or this or the other, there's only risk factors. The risk factors for climate change have become overwhelming and completely inevitable. It means sacrifices, no matter how we feel about our comforts when it comes to transportation. Now the time has passed, and it's fine because I haven't even got it for now and I've already hurt two backs. The members of the Central Party are facing me. I just ask you again for people to give a bus a chance. Not everyone has to be as in love with a bus as I am, but I hope people give him a chance, it costs nothing, or yes, it costs 470s, something like that, and it's worth it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u22	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for inspired talks and considerable knowledge of the street. In fact, I remember how exciting it was to come north of the country and go to the bus in Reykjavík, which I remember was that light green with brown fake mud seats, first when you went to it. But it was a very exciting device. It was very exciting. I'm surprised if it's such that people look at buses or public transportation as worthless. That's very strange. If people hate buses or public transportation, I also feel very special because it's not the case at all, well, I hope they didn't understand my talks on this matter so far. I'm not against it at all. But that's what I'm worried about, and I'd like to ask. A senator whether it is unnecessary to worry, that this implementation as a urban line is, and all this idea may have no endpoint on costs. I'm trying to figure out what the city line will cost at the end of the day. How much is it to run a city line? Who will run a city line? Who will pay the excess off the project? There are these things, and many others I've been wondering. It's just because I'm worried that the government's gonna have to come up there in some way. In view of the considerable decrease in the income of the state's funds now, I worry that the money will not be there or that the money will be committed to it and that it will affect the rest of the State's service because we do not use the same money often. I think we're all aware of that. But I agree with the senator. I worry about it if people hate or hate it or think bus is worthless. [[The president calls.]] It's a transport that's very important.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u23	A respectable president. I have to admit it, I think I listened to the 27th to the 30's, and some speech at the time. The members of the Central Party last night, president's chair. It was just fine, it was fun. Never do I remember talking about bus in the way I mentioned it here. This, however, is something I notice in conversation with a common citizen. These are my speculations. This is a theory about where it comes from, this attitude that the bus should always be free. The discussion is very often related. If the bus were just free, everything would be much better. But it's not, I think, the problem. People are trying to solve the wrong problem when they get in on it in my opinion. The cost is not a problem. The system is basically a perpetual problem, and transportation in general, and there is always something that needs to be solved because things change and develop over time. With regard to the cost, I'm not worried about it. A senator has. This is considered only in the report on the bill that we are discussing here, and there are more data also from Reykjavíkurburg, a number of data in fact. I have to admit that I haven't sunk into them with any depth, but I don't see why this project should be different from any other big long-term travel project that may be a 15-year period. In fact, the cost can go beyond plans, and it seems to be a rule rather than an exception if something is. This is to be expected to overtake them. It's not a new problem, it's nothing special on the city line. In case of a moment. A senator has some ideas about how to deal with that problem in general, I'll be glad to get into some numbers, but I haven't heard any reason yet, in advance, that I haven't listened to maybe 40 speeches by any member of the Central Party on this yet. I can't figure out how this should be more of a problem on the city line. Of course, there will always be maintenance expenses. Of course, over time, things need to be updated. [[The president calls.]] You could ask the same question about the present system. Will we not always have to pay for our present system? Of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u24	V.E.G. President. I was one of those guys who called me in the bus for free, in one of my great talks. However, I mentioned in the context that I wanted to have a free bus for a while to teach people how to use it, trying to get people to go to a bus to see him as an option. Not because he was so insignificant or something like that. It may be possible to make such a decision when we know that people are ready to use this system, as it were. I think it's extremely important whether the stock part of state funds - I'm not going to know about the locals, they just have to carry their own expense - the price is 50 billion or 200 billion. We have pointed to a similar example from Norway, where the estimated mile per mile would cost, I think, 1.2 billion, but cost 3 billion to 4 billion, and the result did not exceed 50 billion but, rather, more than 200 billion in Norway. I just think it's way too risky for state funds to take. I am amazed that members of the council are prepared to take such risks without having any idea what such a huge project will eventually cost. Of course there are some steps in this. Of course, we know that it can go on and on, but there are dozens of billions of people, or they have no idea. On the other hand, if we can frame the risks of a state fund on this matter, leave the risk that remains normal for those who continue to run the case, for those who will control the project and control the development of this, which, of course, are the communities, it's different. They have to take that chance. We at the Council are guarding the interests of the state's funds and making sure that this project is well-wielded in. I don't want to, but I'm willing to take up a conversation in this conference about all the money that might have to be put away from this project because it went so far over schedule, because men weren't making enough of themselves. Because people didn't care how much this cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u25	A respectable president. I believe in a change of work, and it has not been my commission to go deep into the cost of this. It's been about what to do. 11th. Smoke. So, Björn, Leví of Gunnarsson, and I'll just ask him about this and take a closer look at these evidence. I'm not going to study it all, I understand it's a terrible thing to throw away, but I'll study it from the heart. As for keeping free on the bus, I think we should. A senator is trying to solve the wrong problem by doing so. I'm not against it. I'm willing to have a free ride in a bus or less expensive. I just don't think the problem is that people don't test bus because they're afraid of some cost. I don't think so, because it's been hearing for decades that he's never on time, is always late, is all too early, and it's completely impossible, and it's taking way too long. In fact, a respectable president, the main problem is this image, and it has to be eradicated because it's wrong. Much rather than free of charge, I'd advertise the app. Some time ago, it was difficult to pay in a bus because the bus in Iceland didn't give back for some reason. He does it in Finland, and there's no county trouble with that. You could hand them 20 euros and get a bit back like in the store, no problem. It wasn't possible and it can't be done in Iceland for reasons I've always been covered up, and that's why it's a mess. You have to have just the right change to use a bus with no notice. This is one of the problems we had. This is no longer a problem today with the app. You just link it to a map and you can see where the bus is, whether it's too late and what, and plan the trip and pay with the app itself. I would say that the way to get people to test the bus is simply by doing what I did in my speech: Ask people to test bus.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u26	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson speech. Now consider it the best wrongs I've ever heard during the last days. A senator spoke of a traffic crisis. You see, you're absolutely right, and I'm going to teach you that it wasn't a mistake but it was a reason. The senator decided to try this new concept into this discussion. Indeed, we have had a period of traffic crisis in the capital area, and much of it is the type of traffic crisis. These are the organizational decisions that have been made. I have a feeling we're going down. A senator does not fully debate the point of what would be important in order to solve or ease all of this traffic crisis, a term that I think will remember from today on to today's Icelandic language in a conversation about transportation in the capital area. But there are two things I would like to ask. A senator in. Because light controls are one of the priorities of the transport contract. A senator named Pirata, who is members of the mayor's section of Reykjavík, I would like to ask if he has any explanation for why our modern situation has not been further emphasized, some call it smoldering but I'm not technically depressed enough to explain what it is, the lights management. It is claimed that it can reduce bus stop time at roadside, which, of course, has tremendous environmental impact. The other thing I wanted to ask you is why. A senator turned his attention to the proportion of lost travel that has been stuck around 4% throughout the period of the so - called superintendent agreement in the capital area. [[The president calls.]] Who thinks so? A senator's main reason for not getting more results in increasing the proportion of traveling by bus?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u27	A respectable president. Hv. I'm told by a senator if there's no point in modern light management. My understanding is that it's in full swing. In fact, by chance I heard about it, just as a civilian, because I had an idea how to make an app to help with it and send a message to someone at the city of Reykjavík. The person told me that they were looking at solutions that were based on a completely different but smaller idea. I fell away from my idea of something far more fundamental and not so good when it was better to look. That's how ideas work, sometimes 10 percent are better than nine out of ten. In any case, I get it so that the modern light system in Reykjavík is emphasized, so it's controlled by a computer, for example. traffic can be detected. And that is to be done with all manner of experimentation on how to improve it. I can totally believe that traffic can be activated by 20%. I'm assuming there's a little shot in the air, but it wouldn't surprise me. Now I fell off the second question. Yes, we have not been able to raise the number of passengers in the bus. [[It was 4%.]] To be honest, I think there's decades of pessity over the fact that bus is a lost option. I think it's the most important part of why it has been difficult to get people to use the bus - which is actually not quite true, but 100% true, a lot of people are trying to use the bus and have been tested more through the years. Well, that's my experience anyway. Also, there's something else I think has psychological effect. Our country is Iceland, and Iceland seems to think that the weather here is just terrible evil. She's not. The weather in Reykjavík is not particularly bad. There's a storm like any other place. Well, as in other lands, sometimes it is ice and ice in winter, but not always. The wind here is no bigger than Manitoba. I think it's kind of peyote, I think it's the attitude that bus is impossible because we live in Iceland and it's too expensive and impossible. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I just don't think most of this is simply not materialistic. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson respond. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator presents a very interesting concern about the pessimism and this general feeling and image of public transport. To some extent, this might explain how city lines have been presented. Here in the discussion of the transport program, it has been talked about a great deal of driving on imaginary grounds. I came into it in one of my speeches, and I can't describe it any different than how I feel that tomorrow morning the results of the design of the chairs in the waiting clouds are to be presented, but there is no plan for the board for the ◯projek. I've thought that all of this worked in a slightly different order, considering every albino development this is. Probably a dog. When a senator says that it is a big deal about the social transportation and the image of the public transport, he says that it is a lot of work. Then I wondered, " Does the senator believe that this image will change simply to become an extra public transportation, a city line? ' Of course, neighborhood trucks are supposed to feed a city line, so many of them both have to drive slowly and seldom go to the bus and then rely on meeting on the bus that goes fast and often. Does the senator think that there is a chance for him to slow down and perhaps give him a little bit more energy to explain how good the weather is here and the general concept of public transportation? I don't see that it is in nature about beginning to change with these projects up to 50 billion people who are trying to frame in now. I'd like to hear a point of view. A senator in this regard, whether it is, in the end, all about the ◯PR◯ and the image. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u29	A respectable president. If the government's objective was to spend 50 billion on public relations, I would now think something more reasonable than a city line would come out of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u30	...ruined nine.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u31	I don't think that's the only goal. And to answer a question. I don't think that this will only change if more and more people have a bus experience and good hope, and talk about the positive experiences and less the negative experiences of 1970 and 1980 or when such things as the bus was lost. So I think it's a responsibility for those who take part in the discussion not to get pissed off in the street unless it's based on some real evidence and more recent experience. I notice that the criticism is often based on old experience from the way the bus was before we had a GPS, before we had a smartphone, and before the system became as it is today. No doubt it was lost at some point, that may well be the case. About the problem as a dog. A senator mentions, which can be real but isn't always real, that sometimes you have to catch up with a bus that seldom goes and slowly, and then others who go fast and often, and this bus needs to be met. It is a small exercise, but it is usually not a problem. In fact, let me tell you how I use bus in general. I'm just taking the next one that's going in the direction I'm going, and then I catch the next guy approaching me when I see him. As a matter of fact, I'm starting to know the system well enough to handle it on a certain level. This also shows that the bus is now so good today that if you know the roads well enough, you can just squeeze the wagons, just find the next bus that takes a sub down to Hlemm. Then you find another bus there. There are many streets that go around, and this can be done, at least in some ways, except as the analysis of the routes improves, e.g. using GPS technology and more, I'm not talking about if the public is in the process of creating data on this, you could improve the tour system even more than actually using the bus. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There are lots of technical opportunities to bus things that weren't there just ten years ago, even thirty. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u32	Mr. President. In my first talk on this subject, I reviewed the nature of this official community being formed. I don't think I've already mentioned a city line, so it's about a lot more than just the city line. This is about the princery of what is being done here by truly establishing a new State in the state, the official part of an amazing power society, the transport community in the capital area, in other words, taking power from voters, from the public, in the area of transportation, and bringing it into the new realm where no one is elected. This government will also keep up with the funding of these transport projects. What is common at the General Assembly and no other place, funding projects, except in the presence of rural society, will be in the hands of this new Kingdom. It will carry out the building work itself. It will supervise planning and risk management. And now there is not much left for the voter or the politicians, their representative, to do on transportation. However, the new Kingdom will also be empowered to pursue rural communities, which will then become part of the colony's colony. If your rural society does not follow course, the right course, as interpreted by this state, then it should follow its change of course. The government will also provide fees, have the authority to pay interest to the public, the so - called remuneration that is now trying to rephrase the other word because the other word was too vivid to describe what was meant. The state will also have a special real estate society, it'll be part of this partner, go into real estate with one of the most valuable property in the country. Even other government property, such as Iceland Bank, has been mentioned to fit into that new state. It will therefore be permitted to establish, reproduce, if considered necessary, new institutions. As soon as I was gone, I was at just the article on the real estate society, 7. .. where this is described very definitively. So I think I'll allow myself to read a few lines directly from the bill. Under the headline Overtake and Development of the country, it says, with permission of presidents: The EU shall agree with a special agreement with the Minister of the State, with the rights and responsibilities associated with it, as part of the government's contribution. The contract should include: determine the limit of the country and its conditions to the company. All benefits of the development and sale of the country will be addressed to the work on the construction of transport in the capital area. The Society shall take care of the development of the country in cooperation with its organizational authorities, with the aim of maximising its value and its potential for building up where possible. I don't have time to trace the history of similar agreements. In fact, they are not comparable, but when the government delivered land under the city of Reykjavík, with certain conditions, it did not work out after they apparently stood by. Here we are to 8. Gr., Mr. President, and it doesn't get better. It's about authorization to borrow, et cetera, as the headline says: It is permitted to borrow in excess of what is financed by contributions to the company, to make up the total investments, and to be assessed as practical for the development of transport and other activities of the company. Remuneration depends on the requirement that the state's funds lend the company a loan, or if government responsibilities are to be borrowed from another person. This new country is so well established in the countryside that it has the authority to borrow a loan beyond what is added to the company, beyond the possibility of taxing the public here in the capital area even more than it has been, and the loans should be government insurance in one way or another by the state of the United States. And 9. y., about the breakup of the club: The EU should be removed once it has fully completed its assignments. When will the complete work be completed? When will it be over, and now I name it, city line? Is it not certain that in view of the experiences of other cities with such projects, this will not only exceed the cost limit but, rather, will there be no time limit? This may even be the case after decades, and I remind you that it was talking about 15 years. Things can easily get out of hand and cannot be cut off because either the projects have not been completed or, more likely, new projects have been found, an expansion of the city line, or something like that. Then comes a very interesting sentence that may explain what the foxes are cut to do if they have not figured it out. The bill says: In cooperation with the Vega project preparation of the transport project, the Agency will be responsible for the development of the transport infrastructure. If anyone had doubts about what the main thing was, and what would all of this be done, why the state is scraping together to keep up the Union campaign by handing over the country, by giving authority to new taxation, a new payment, even to Iceland banking, we'll see here that the company's establishment of the city's project office is taking its place. This article then discusses the motives of the law. This section begins by explaining that the reason for the law is to fulfill the commitments presented in the transport Convention that a joint society will be established by the State and the local community in the capital area. Passage - this incredible agreement, which was called "a contract," which was not supposed to be called a contract because it was sensitive, but is under contract, since the government is now putting forth great effort to enforce that contract or agreement, as they called it in a somewhat misleading way, in order to finance the campaign reserve of the more part of Reykjavík, and without a running plan, which, of course, is completely incomprehensible and by the most pure differences. I think there's good reason for a state reexamination to look into this matter. It may not be that ministers are able to get into this nonsense, that it seems blind, in one way or another that the public is committed to, from democratic authority, to place capitals on an assignment without human knowledge of how the management programme will look or have at least I was afraid to show it. We know, however, that the situation will be much more expensive, probably far more expensive, than the present bus system because there is a tendency to run a double bus system in the capital area. The traditional bus that will then be a local waste will continue to be kept in place and will be replaced, even as the city's former workroom recognizes, predicting that the cost of the bus - just that part - will increase by 2 billion a year. To date, only one third of the income of the bus has come from the sale of the cargo or from the fare. Now the cost is to be increased by 2 billion a year. And where will they come from? We don't know, any more than we do know anything about a strategy, much less how much it's going to cost to run a city line. [[The president calls.]] I'm just getting on the road and I'm just waiting for the best. President to put me back on the rosary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u33	A respectable president. I've been looking out for any concerns. The senator of democracy to the various causes of democracy, and of course it will not fail. A senator expressed concern about them. They're in short, if I get it right, then what? A senator will correct me if I'm wrong, that politicians don't have enough control. At the beginning of his talk, there was no reason. A senator only over the state, as he called it. It would be people who control things, make decisions, make analysis, and all kinds of things that would not be chosen. I wondered, then, if it's just the option to make a suggestion that these people will be chosen. What do you think? A senator about that? Counts 'em out. A senator that the citizens would like to vote for people to wield this power that will be in this new battle? If so, is that not the ideal? It would be nice and perhaps a little interesting to see what Icelandic voters would do with the right to choose a particular task. We usually vote for public action at the General Assembly, who is in charge of everything, and indirectly prefers a government that takes care of everything. So it might be an interesting measure. I haven't heard a call for this from anywhere else, I have to admit, either from my party members or from the public, but if it's a call that the city even has some particular decisions or wants people to do certain roles, don't you think it's a good idea to investigate ways to go in that direction? And if the city isn't interested in this, it doesn't say that there's a little bit of concern. Perhaps a senator is not as well convinced as he would like to be?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u34	Mr. President. That was quite an interesting idea, choosing a special transport manager for rural society, at least Here in the capital area, because this is where we're talking, and we'd probably be somewhere else, too. I imagine, however, that most people think it better to maintain the democratic arrangement that we have built up in the West in a very long time, and to choose members of Congress or local government to handle different matters. [[Up front.]] So I'm not measuring that there will be agents elected for each case, elections for social directors, elections for foreign agents, etc. But the idea is interesting and worthwhile. I think it would be worth it for what happened. A senator throwing this up at the Pirates and see what debate is created there because it's a better option than what we see right now, which is the administration of democratic authority to the disproportionate institutions and all kinds of screws. That means when voters come to the ballroom, they have years from year to year, elections after elections, less or less about how their community is controlled. And that's not democratic, Mr. President. I'm glad to hear it. A senator may wonder here interesting ideas, but at least for the time being, I'm going to allow myself to continue speaking to traditional Western democracy. I'm like a whisk. Of course, a senator is aware of the fact that he or she is directly increasing the authority of the voters, and we have discussed it all over the world, but it should be within the framework of the system we live in. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u35	A respectable president. I just think it's a strange approach to keep calling for politicians to be more concerned about democracy. If we are concerned about the lack of democratic authority, we should bring more into the hands of the citizens. Just to brag about me a little bit of Pirata's policy, that's for example. Pirat's policy to enter the Constitution of regulations, where 10% of voters can force an binding national bill for primes approved by the General and where 2% of voters can present a case at the General Assembly. And it's also on Porta's policy that if the signatures of 10% voters are reached, the Porta party will propose a modification proposal to get them into national law. We were prepared to make these adjustments to the third energy package if the Tents' signatures were obtained at the time, which were not found as hopefully the famous word is. It is also in Pirata's policy to enable rural votes to keep citizens so-called bloc regulations, about individual cases at lower threshold than 20% if they vote and it is on Porta's policy to vote for local society's executives directly. I think the Piratars in general were very open to creating some kind of process so that the citizens could choose direct governments into some elements that would be of enormous importance. The local communities might want to vote for the transport system in Reykjavík. But it remains that I have heard no appeal except indirectly in a sermon. A senator who, in fact, called not for it but for politicians to control more things and to control more. I think it's such a strange priorities, but it's a worthwhile subject. So I'm interested in hearing a little more from the Central Party study on solutions to problems other than the power of politicians even more.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-23-124.u36	Mr. President. I appreciate this review of Pirata's policy. I'm surprised to hear it. A senator should believe that the capital city, or country, has a limited interest in transportation and that it is safe to place it in the hands of someone other than the members of the community. This is not consistent with my experience. I think the public here, both in the capital area and also throughout the country, is just very interested in transportation and even in a number of other matters. This is often a hot case in communities, and it can be of great importance even when it comes to elections. But if the election doesn't make any difference, because there's only one tool that's running with its own financing and planning and risk management, and so on, democracy isn't working. Today, politicians have a bit of a custom of speaking down the role of politicians because they consider it to be a popular fall, probably. But the politicians, according to our system of government, as representatives of the public, as representatives of the voters, are still required to enforce their policy and to be elected. If they do not, or if they fail, by the direction they have applied, they are punished in the election. In other words, they have responsibilities. Thus, as voters choose better and better policies and better politicians, hopefully they will gradually make better decisions. In fact, it has been very long for Western countries. [[The president calls.]] But if we cut this authority of the voters, I doubt it will lead to continued progress.
