ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u1	A respectable president. This bill is being measured for the process of reforming and subsidence, which is the best of matters, and I'm glad that it has entered this council and is therefore being treated as a welfare committee. But what I want to ask the highest. Department of Social Affairs and Childfriendships are dates on one dollar, 50,000 bucks. tax-free. It has been observed that December 18 is the date, and it has been discussed in the media, and many desperate people took the date for approval and that it would follow. I know of people who took it so literally that they thought to themselves: Okay, now I can pay some bills that I haven't so far been able to do. This was done at the end of the month, hoping to get 50,000 bucks. On December 18, I thought to myself, " At least I can use it to buy food for the family, which shows much about the need. And that's why I ask the highest. Minister: Does he believe that this date, December 18, stands? What is needed in order to ensure that this payment is paid before this time so that people can get it safely about a week before Christmas?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u2	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. What needs to be done is that the Council will be able to accept these laws, or what is involved in this $50,000 bill. one payment, in all the next few days, really because once the council is finished, they need to take their usual course, their signature, the publication of the law, etc., before a insurance agency can pay it off. If the council breaks this off at the beginning of the next week or so, then these timings are to be carried out, and my information suggests that the insurance agency is working to pay it out on December 18 and yet with the assurance that the council will turn it off. In fact, it's only this case that needs to be settled, we don't need funding or financial rights because it's taken from the budgets of the current year. The budget has already been approved, so it does not have to be approved with the budget or budget bill of the next year because it is in the current year. What needs to be done for this date, December 18, is that this bill, at least, the part of the figure that this 50,000 will be delivered, is delivered rapidly and well through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u3	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I don't really think that we should be able to get this case through a welfare committee and bring it to the council right after the weekend. I don't think there's a disagreement between the government and the government's opposition to taking this off because, as I say, it's often needed, but now it's necessary in this Covid epidemic. I also see in this bill an excellent rise beyond this 3.6% increase, i.e. up to 19,700 bucks. increase and is only the best. But I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is there anything wrong with the older citizens who are in the worst position at Christmas bonus and so forth? As noted above, a large proportion of women are affected, and this also applies to impairment, especially in microplasia. There's a little question about that. People who are the worst in this system are usually women and also seniors, so I ask if there's something going on for that group, because that doesn't help, at least. for the worst.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this, saying that it will make a difference, will have the other change so far, not the one who is lying to $50,000. individual payments maintain permanent change from year to year, which is about how we weigh 1.1 billion k. It will be relevant for the group of microenergy transplant recipients and the rehabilitation of those in the section of the striped recoveries to receive this rise of more than 3.6%. Of course, for older citizens, traditional December is expected to be supplemented. But what we're doing here is that we're actually subsidizing a budget designed for microenergy pensioners to meet them and actually do what was done at the time when the system was revised to older citizens. It's the money that's been inside, like I traced, and we're actually making it count, it's going to be permanent next year, but with a single payment in December. There's no future for another bill from me or my Ministry on the change in social security laws that attract older citizens, not before the New Year's Eve, no. However, there are some measures that will take place on the 2nd. budgets and particularly towards senior citizens and introduced as part of the government's front box for various social activities and so forth when it comes to older citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u5	President. I'd like to emphasize it, like cot. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson as well as the highest. Minister, how important it is that this monopolitan payment here will be paid as soon as possible. If the record shows that it was first promised by December 18, but the bill says on December 31th. If indicated, the word can be spoken at the highest rate. Minister looks like it's gonna be by December 18th. I just want to stress how important it is. Similarly, I think it would be appropriate to point out that the one subject and the planned change over the years has been presented throughout the discussion that Covid is not really a question. Money is not being added to this sector, into a case group of desperate and disabled people, for Covid's sake. Rather, it is the right thing that the budget was added to this year's budget on the budget bill last year. So it's not new money, it was just to be taken care of. Again, I stress the importance of our progress through the council. That is a huge appeal, as shown in the case of a man. paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi, son of Kristinsson and as great as anyone. Minister. That's a huge appeal. It is also good to stress that the amount of money involved is not involved. But the important thing is to bear in mind and put it a little in context how important it is to this group. This can change everything. There are holidays coming, and Christmas is coming. Let's just keep that in mind. That's not much. Hv. The welfare committee is aware of the importance of this, and I expect this to go on and on through the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u6	The President announces the change in the work schedule, in collaboration with the Commission and members of the Parliament, on the way that the Day, Thursday, December 3, but now it has been decided to have a meeting on this day and to begin with. 11:30. Committees will be meeting up to that time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u7	Borist has received a letter asking for every request in order to provide written answers to queries, from the Ministry of Education and Culture, to ask for cover. 381, on the cost of shows and contractors at the National Radio, Ásmundur Friðriksson, and on the inquiries. 322, regarding the agent and the contact manager, from Sæmundsson, from the social and child-registry for the aim of an inquiry. 71, of individuals with diagnosed post-cerebral behavioral disorders, of Katrín Friðriksson, and of inquiries. 151, the waiting period of the State Diagnosis and Advisory Centre, from Árnadóttir Kolbrún Bridge.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u8	The president considers an agreement that may last longer for a meeting, but the Congress dictates, if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u9	To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Transport and Regional Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Tourism, Industrial and Development Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Justice Ministers and Environment and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u10	Mr. President. Maybe yesterday was just a pretty good day for an Icelandic nation, for it hopefully marks the end of a political judge in Iceland. The findings of the Court of Human Rights confirm that the violation of justice was serious and undermined basic rights of justice. Today, political powers are no longer sufficient to pay just candidates who are passed over benefits from the combination while the others continue to sit well. I agree with the highest. The prime minister that we now need to look ahead, but we learn nothing unless we look back on the road. When faced with governmental opposition, she expressed great concern for her confidence in the courts and considered the responsibility of the Great Minister of Justice. Then we supported not only an article of the committee but also a view against the plans of a justice minister but also a major fault. They were more and less confirmed and mentioned in the court of Human Rights yesterday. At the same time, the government was offered a postponement to advance the work of the case and to support a variation from the list of nobility committees. It was refused. Nobody's hiding what's at the highest. In the spring of 2017, the prime minister was found to be in progress. Nevertheless, it formed a government with an independent party six months later with the same minister of justice as the following year, after the Supreme Court had misjudged a minister, defended prime minister, and a greater part of the Council of Ministers of Justice mistrusted. In view of that situation, I ask: Prime Ministers that it was a mistake to defend a minister of mistrust at that time and even to form a government with a group that has a long history of stretching far beyond the normal limit of authority?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u11	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry that concerns this big case, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Human Rights. I would like to say at the beginning of my reply that I find it important to leave no doubt that Iceland has always lived up to all its commitments to the European Convention of Human Rights. We are members of the European Convention of Human Rights and part of the commitment we have made by being there, by carefully reviewing the results of this court, and by ensuring that the execution of these matters will be in place of all doubt to the future. Thus we have handled the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights so far. This is to form a program on the investigation of tax fractures, directly based on the findings of the European Court of Human Rights. I think it's important to make it perfectly clear here at Generalis's Hall that we need to take this sentence seriously. I haven't changed my mind since I spoke to a member of the Board of Directors and Control Committee in June 2017, where I pointed out exactly what is being considered here for consideration, i.e. that a minister has, indeed, been authorized to withdraw from the opinion of an emissary committee, but in order to meet that authority properly, she would have had to perform her investigational duties under the administration of government laws, as well as to respect the court of protest under administrative law. I believe that the greater part of the present failed to accept the extended reconciliation that the lesser part held out to them to postpone the case. But that was not done. And that's how it went about then. But I'm also going to say that when the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights fell in the spring months of 2019, then the current Minister of Justice took responsibility for this matter, political responsibility, and resigned. That's just the way it is. However, all of us, the General, the Supreme Court, must review the court, and make sure that such a thing does not recur. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u12	Mr. President. Did they accept responsibility - but why not after the Supreme Court's judgment fell? I'm sure it's good to hear it in the highest order. Prime Minister here to hear the tone. V.E.G. You see, the secretary of finance said that last night there was no need to worry about Iceland's reputation on this matter. But he was not either concerned about our reputation when the Panama papers were published, when Iceland landed on a gray list, or when there was evidence of a gross failure of a major company in Namibia. That's why I'm asking the highest. Whether she is concerned about this. Ministers of the Independence Party and individual members of the Independence Party have over the years minimized this matter and have even allowed themselves to speak down the Human Rights Court. A former justice minister has even gone so far as to wonder if Iceland should tell her about him, so I ask: Ministers are concerned about Iceland's reputation for this case, and does it feel that the government of Iceland declares that the European Court of Human Rights matters to us and that we will fully respect his decision? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u13	According to the president, members of Parliament are largely concerned with the ministers they have but do not use the time to speak strongly about other politicians who are unable to answer in their discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u14	Mr. President. Hv. A senator has no doubt, no more than anyone if he is involved, that Iceland takes its commitment to the European Convention of Human Rights. I reviewed matters on the program at the council today that are about to meet the precise criticism that has been reported by the European Court of Human Rights on two counts of tax law and tax evaluations. Does that not express a strong desire to respond? I don't think there's any doubt of that, Mr. President. And because of what? A senator asks, and I'm not worried about Iceland's reputation. I'm not worried because what matters is how we react to such a judgment, what lessons we learn from it. And I believe there may be some lessons. I can also say, it is my firm opinion that it was the right to go over the matter because I believe yesterday's sentence has diminished and explained these matters much better than the judgment that fell in the league in its own time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u15	A respectable president. The first reaction of the former Minister of Justice as well as that of the head of the Independence Party to the decision of the Human Rights was that the judgment in itself was not meaningful and that it involves political action rather than law. The core criticism by the Court of Human Rights against this minister is that it was her political concern and her treatment of this matter all that is not in harmony with the principles of the legal state. The major part of the Court is clear, stating that the violation of the former Minister of Justice was equally serious because it repeatedly warned that its procedure was not supported, both by the Ministry of Justice, by the Ministry of Justice, and then by the chairman of the Qualition Committee. On this issue, she did not inform any of her colleagues or councils, and she did not go on the way. She went through a course of deception. The restoration was in control during that time, and we have a responsibility. That's what we said, and that's what I'm saying again. We wanted to ensure equality when a new level of judgment was taken. This approach, however, has nothing to do with the wrongdoing and deception of the former minister of justice. It may include news to the Independence Party, but views on equality are a perplexing viewpoint, and anyone who wants to see that gender equality does not lead to 17 judges, all by number, all of whom said the Minister of Justice has violated a law. The reasons are very different, and they are very clear. So I want to ask the highest. The minister of finance and chairman of the Independence Party: Does he take this judgment of the European Court of Human Rights seriously, and in what respect and would he insist that we fulfill all our commitments related to the Court of Human Rights?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u16	A respectable president. I have said this judgment that fell yesterday that he did not change the rights of the person who first wanted to test his position before the European Court of Human Rights and later before the Court of Human Rights. He requested an invalid judgment in Iceland, it was refused, then requested damage in Strassburg, and it was refused. This is the central result of an individual's case in the United States courts and in the European Court of Human Rights. There are questions about whether there is anything new in the findings of the European Court of Human Rights and when it comes to the Court of Human Rights making the decision that the court's order was not legalized, there is, of course, nothing new after the Supreme Court had discussed that point and answered the court's question by judging those who had been inside the list of 15 of the most qualified damages. That question had been answered. I want to draw attention to the fact that Iceland has to respect its commitments according to the European Convention that we have always done so. A person must follow his understanding of his national commitment. Many who have been involved in this discussion have concluded that we are under obligation to follow completely the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, as if they could bring an end to local courts. Of course, this is very wrong, and it is very important that everyone recognizes it in this case. Here's what we're talking about. A member of the council that former Justice Ministers have been politicalally involved. In this discussion, then, let us not forget all political leaders who were dealing with the Ministry of Justice themselves and demand that he not allow the findings of the Commission to be his recommendation. [[The president calls.]] The message from the General Assembly, and the Council is actually receiving a contribution in this court, was that the Council would never approve of this 15. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u17	A respectable president. I don't know about the highest. Secretary of the budget, but I'm going to try to learn from this. Not by trying to talk down the Court of Human Rights or by wearing a armory on characters and actors or political parties, or old and out - of - date politicians. It's no fun for me to stand here. However, I am concerned that out of this matter, the decision and decision that will make us Icelanders stronger and more mature afterwards is that the courts of the country are not back in position like this, that the Icelandic government is not in the same class as countries we do not want to teach us when it comes to democracy. That must be the conversation the government has to deal with. This case has led to the discovery of 17 judges of the Human Rights Court of Human Rights that is simply against the European Government. The conclusion requires that we have an intelligent discussion about how we will respond to the decision and how we will grow afterward. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u18	A respectable president. Hv. According to the European Convention of Human Rights, a senator may call it a national commitment to speak down the European Court of Human Rights. This is so wrong. It's just a big misunderstanding on my case. I'm not talking down the Human Rights Court, I'm just putting him on a shelf where he belongs. It's under Icelandic courts under the constitution. This principle must simply be maintained. It was never possible for the Court of Human Rights to address the court's conclusions in Iceland that have discussed the legal questions that have been raised in this matter. That's the main thing. Even in this judgment it is not claimed that we should take some special measures yesterday. We simply need to evaluate it. So in this respect, the discussion has been cleared up by court hearings long ago. Then I'm going to say that I don't like to say it here about people who don't take part in the debate that they were using the council as a delusion. [[The president calls.]] All I know is that the council received the answer to all the questions that were addressed to the Ministry and made informed decisions, including to vote for all at once. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u19	President. Three years, then, are ancient to the highest. At the time, there has been no intention of responding to the immediate trial because of the legitimateness of the order. The European Court of Human Rights passed a sentence in the past but instead of responding humbly and responsibilities, guided by reform, the government yearned and appealed to the department, expecting the decision to be returned, as the Supreme Court did. Last night, the minister of justice was spoken of. But it didn't. No. Instead of reacting, the government has struck a armored city with a sledgehammer. paritaprevir It's Sigríður on. Andersen. The government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, prolonged the life of the former Minister at the Ministry of Justice, mistrusted her after the court of justice and then appealed to the court of Human Rights. And now, at last, when the Court's own department of the European Court of Human Rights insists on a gross political approach to the court of the just trial, it is rather high. The minister of justice insists that there is no need to respond to the judgment. I must ask, in view of these reactions at the highest. Minister, whether or not she is aware of the impact that it will have when a state is judged guilty of violating the European Convention of Human Rights. The fact is, the Court will send instructions on the violation of Member States to the Council of Ministers of the European Parliament, which contacts Member States in order to have a plan on how the Member State will conduct the decision and prevent similar violations of human rights in the future. The correct answer to the Council of Ministers is not to return wealth. If a similar offense arises, more serious and worse judgment against the United States can be committed. So I ask the highest. Minister: Is she serious that she does not really have to do anything to respond to the judgment of the Court of Human Rights? Or is it obvious, perhaps, that a minister is merely trying to downplay this great issue?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u20	A respectable president. Whatever it is. Last night, a senator and members of the council declared that it was an emergency to react because of the judgment that occurred yesterday, it is simply wrong. There is no emergency in the land's rights that needs immediate attention because of the findings made yesterday. Of course, we are continuing to examine the judgment. But the concluding words there are very clear, that the conclusion does not affect the issues that are already judged or are judged benefits to parties. I thus agree with the words the attorneys have made that this is a judgment that looks primarily to the future, rather than tolerate all that has already happened. It's just what I've said. It seems that there is no need to produce a major disturbance in the legal system to the future. From this decision, we can learn a lesson and make sure that such a decision does not recur. And, in theory, human efforts to ask for a repeat, Icelandic legislation guarantees the right to request a new reimbursement. It was important to pray that the head of the department take the case because it created a great measure of justice because of the previous judgment. Not only was it uncertain of these four judges but there were many other questions raised, but the uncertainty has been resolved with this clear judgment that occurred yesterday. Then comes the second. A senator who says that the government or ministers have done nothing since the previous judgment. Of course, that is also wrong. By taking the case to the head and getting conclusions that are much clearer and more clear about many important points than the previous judgment will do, with the renewal that has taken place in the U.S. National Court. So it's wrong as a matter of fact. One senator said that it was four judges to whom this judgment points. There is only one, not four, since three have received a new order for the judgment and there is no doubt about his independence as an appeal court. Third, the General has recently passed a law on an independent rejuvening court, and these laws are in accordance with indications and criticism of their arrangements. It is thus wrong that we have not taken the decision seriously and have responded in a responsible way. But that's also wrong. Councilmen who believe that this court has an emergency problem in the United States.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u21	A respectable president. I haven't talked about any emergency problems, and I haven't heard anything. There's a senator talking about an emergency. However, I have talked about the need to respond, and I have heard others talk about the need for this. V.E.G. In the news, a minister says that she does not feel the need to respond to this judgment in any way, and that's what I'm asking the highest court. Minister in. But she seems to be getting out of the position, which in itself is fine. This is not the first, second, or third time that the Independence Party is exposed to questionable commands in judges' positions. However, this is the first time in Iceland has become a warning example throughout Europe regarding the consequences of political interference from legal independence. The Court's Court of Human Rights, by the judgment of the Court of Human Rights, is a historical, exemplary judgment of not ordering judges. Says it's the highest. There's nothing a minister that the Polish government was on the side of the Icelandic government, but that Poland's rights officer didn't do that? Does the minister feel no responsibility for this sentence, the reputation of this justice that has truly occurred in the international community?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u22	A respectable president. Hv. A senator claimed that nothing had been done. That's what I was answering. I told yesterday that there would be no need to react to the sentence, for it is clearly stated in the court itself that there would be no need for a case again and that there would be no penalties. That's what I'm doing. Hv. A senator here tries to beat some political cones and brings political rousings to the position of the Independence Party at the court order. The Independence Party does not possess any methodology at the order of judges. They are appointed by law, which was last modified in 2011 by the then government. For years evaluation committees have been debated how the panels order candidates for judging positions, and that is the basis for this matter. As we examine the order of judges in all the last few years in general, these orders have gone very well. There's not been any politics involved in the orders I've come to, professional evaluation has been in charge, as at the last order to Iceland's Supreme Court, where I chose two of the six equally qualified individuals, including to match the position of the sexes. [[The president calls.]] Was it an example of the political orders of a judge that the senator is covering with because more qualified men than could receive the posts that were available for application?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u23	A respectable president. In Iceland, an active industry involved in blood donation from live horses is aimed at extracting hormones sold as biohazard companies to produce fertility drugs and incentives to increase fertility in pig farms for human consumption. As biotech companies pay high prices for the hormone, blood control has increased significantly in Iceland in recent years. In several places, it has become a huge farming with up to 200 mares in blood production. Great financial incentives are in place to maximise their efficiency, allowing red blood cells to walk with the colt as often as possible, or until the hormone is no longer present in their blood and is slaughtered. The sheep always go straight to the slaughterhouse. While the hormone is found in the blood of the mares, blood will be performed every week, every week, every 5 litres, seven to eight times during the summer. The Icelandic horse, but smaller than traditional horsekind, has only a volume of blood in the Icelandic matrices of only 3,500,737 L. Thus, about 14% of their blood amount is being taken each week for two months. In comparison, the use of more than 10% in transfusion administration is limited and only every three to four months, and not in pregnant women. Then there are cases of injuries that occurred during blood transfusions. The fact is, up to 170 tons of blood taken from 5,000 mares is taken. So I ask the highest. Seafood and agricultural minister: What do ministers think of this, that literally milking mares for profit? Does he feel that this industry meets normal requirements for the well - being of animals? If not, what's going to happen. Minister to do in this zoo?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u24	A respectable president. I now feel that this activity can all be subjugated to the word ◯▁dýranide, to the point that it is possible to say that it is possible to all of us. I think the activity involved is under the supervision of veterinarians and the Food Agency and in many ways it is a wonderful work that is being done there. But I don't doubt it, as in so many other places, that you can find things you can do better. It is totally indistinguishable that there is that possibility. When I'm asked how I feel about this operation, I don't feel that there's any basis for the claim to bring down all those under this hat to the point that there's a huge cost to me, I don't think it's reasonable and not normal. I haven't had any complaints about that sort of thing on my level as Minister of the jury and I'd be surprised if those who are involved in this type of work were working.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u25	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the clear answers. But I just want to point out that civilized nations have long since ceased to do so. If they can stop, why are we doing this? What's the point? And then he says it's under the supervision of the Food Agency. Yes, but it has been subject to animal experiments, animal experiments, not the welfare of animals. I ask, "Why in the hell is it underneath that? " And if it's all right, why on earth do horses have to be tortured and removed from them only to increase their production and ability to produce more meat? Can we be in a more ridiculous position than this? Is it possible to lower? I don't see any point in this. I ask: Is it not time for us to act like other traditional nations and think about the welfare of animals and stop doing so?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u26	A respectable president. This activity has been practiced in this country for 40 years, and it's remarkable if today's arrival is that all this time, British farmers have been harassed by the animals under which they hear. Since 2013, the work is under animal control law. It's being watched by a food clinic. I don't know if or what way it's being practiced in a foreign country. I don't have any information about it, as was shown in an answer I gave to a question from what. paritaprevir Ágúst, Ólafur of Ágústsson, here at the General Assembly. A senator can study and lie in front.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u27	Mr. President. The situation in agriculture is not good, and the managers are actually smiling. There are a few reasons. The serious consequences of the virus epidemic are obvious, and there is a collapse in the arrival of foreign tourists who have had a major impact on the consumption of agricultural products. There has also been a powerful influence on government control procedures. There is an increase in the import of a foreign farm, toll management in the country, and tollovum auction is scheduled. The increase in agricultural import has fallen into the Icelandic market. Sales of domestic meat, horses, pigs, cattle and lambs have been drawn together about 10% in the past three months, since the same time last year, and a lot of supplies have been accumulated, e.g. in a milk protein. Meat supplies rise, both in livestock, on the feet of farmers, and in the supply stores of the Marketing Authorisation Holder. In addition, it is anticipated that for the import of agricultural products from the European Union, employment and innovation will still remain unpublished. A bill of temporary intervention for one year would not have to be performed; tollovum exports in meat and dairy products would need to be delayed due to the condition. If no action is taken to prevent more meat from entering an overcrowded market, this will result in a collapse of meat to the manufacturer and a mass miner. It is vital, therefore, that governments respond promptly to the problem if the situation is not to be treated badly. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: What measures will he plan to take in order to cope with the serious situation in the Icelandic agriculture I trace here?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. First of all, I want to make a comment about the lack of agrienvironmental status in the country, which is a general claim to agriculture. Gardening is doing really well. The milk is also doing very well. Alibirds are doing fine, pig farms are good. The problem we have is especially in meat production, in a lamb that is not a new problem, in beef. There are clearly very, very bad places in Icelandic agriculture today. Of course, it is perfectly right. A senator, but not a new truth, notes that the effects of the crown virus and the recession in the arrival of tourists in the country up to two million tourists have an impact. Like other articles, food production is like falling victim to it. We're working with ideas of the material inside my Ministry that I expect to introduce to you soon. Right away. A senator brings up the customs agreement with the European Union just to a lesser extent. Once again, a member of the current members of the Central Party was at that contract. Often, the Middle Ages speak as if they were almost all of them white - smoldering angels, but they have their share in this work. I thought it better to be recognized by that share rather than to refer it to some less responsible people.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u29	Mr. President. I have to say, it's going to be the best. Ministers are going to come up with some solutions and tell about their policies, not always talking about what other people did or did not do. You'll simply be, top dog. Minister, to prove that you can solve the problem. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] You have to come up with solutions. You come here for a speech chair and call for ideas. You don't have any ideas yourself, chief. Minister. You have to come with solutions, that's just a message. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to see if he has had a competitive agricultural environment checked, i.e. the farming and the products of companies in neighboring countries, and if so, whether they have compared them to the work of this country. I must say, because of the highest. A minister said that agriculture is successful, that agriculture is not successful when people are unable to sell their goods, the highest. Minister, and there's a supply in the country. That's when farming isn't working. [[The president calls.]] I think the highest. A minister must realize that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u30	A respectable president. It's like this when you blame someone else. It's fine when you take it to yourself. When I say that agriculture is working well, I say at the same time that its components are going very badly. I mentioned these points specifically, so that those words are not turned out. We also find a successful agricultural operation. We can't have absolute confidence that everything is ruined. Granted, there are challenges there, and we must deal with them. Yes, we've had the agricultural work compared to the Norway European Union and are working with conclusions from the Institute of Law for the University of Iceland in that topic. Clearly, there is a distinct difference between law and rules relating to e.g. A partner in Norway, the European Union, with the sources of information relating to the activities of agriculture in Iceland. It will be part of the work I intend to introduce shortly, and I mentioned in my previous answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u31	A respectable president. There is nothing different with school or cultural matters, of course, that obviously Covid had a tremendous impact there. But I would like to discuss the school issues, high school, and college, at the highest level. Minister. We've only killed this on a budget committee, and I'd like to follow through on it. I'd especially like to talk about the schools in my district that call themselves "NAME," i.e. Northern schools and also east, i.e. The money for them. According to what has been put together, they fire the train in percentages between the years. I'd like to discuss it with a minister only because there seems to have been some conversation, but something seems to go slowly before school to reach some conclusion. We know this discussion. It is not natural that schools cannot run from month to month because they cannot even pay for electricity or so on. Something's not like it's supposed to be in the formula. It also attracts attention, given the budget bill and the funds we have, to e.g. The university receives less money than comparable schools, though much smaller. I'd also like to ask a minister to come in on that, too. It is also true that while students would even decrease from year to year, which is not happening right now, we have a fixed cost that is high. In the Loftur High School, 90% of the management fees are fixed, 38% are housing costs, and 54% are operating expenses. I would like to discuss this with a minister only because it was also the inner rent raised on market was to be completely covered. [[The president calls.]] It was not meant to have any effect or to change the basis of high school management. But it seems to be coming by the day that she does.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u32	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for bringing up a case in the state of high school and university in the Northeast standard. I'd like to start by saying that the government's been raising a lot of money into the education system. We're talking about billions of growths, both because we've been going to big attendance, we've reached the OECD average, we've raised the budget of every student in this period because we know that education is everything for the future, and that's why we've gone this way. Also, I'd like to mention that the budget has not been set for each school. This is why we decided, i.e. Because of the crown virus, we would have it by 1st. the number of students. Then we'd have to look at it again because the masses have been a little bit confused, there are a lot of people coming into the school system because of this position, thousands of people into college, and thousands into high school. All schools were to be aware that this might change. I mean, about school as a boy. A senator mentioned, it will. There's talk between the staff of the Education and Culture Department and the staff of the school and a lot of progress in that conversation. I would also like to mention that when making budgets for each school, it takes into account the number of students, the type of study, the number of graduates, the number of students in the delicate position of students, the number of students in the field, the rent, the household business, and so forth, all of which come in and form a specific group. But I just want to reiterate that it was perfectly clear that this would change between 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u33	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. We are, of course, working with some numbers for correction, as was the case when a minister introduced the budget to us and the unscrupulous sum of money she had to make up her shoes. Indeed, they are unable to adjust more than they have. We know this too. I also want to talk to the minister about this small high school, where the floor was supposed to be in the basics, but that somehow does not seem to be the case. If so, contributions are decreasing from year to year, and this can never have been the purpose of the Ministry. I'll ask a little about it, and then I'll go to the University of Akureyri. We have already discussed in the Senate Hall that a vast number of students have been received, and we realize that after keeping students in the next year, they will not be able to keep up with the increase in funds. That is why I have to ask about both these points: Do we also have enough money in 2021 in view of what happened in the fall of the student's school? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u34	A respectable president. How happy we are that our education system is so open, and both high school and university degrees can receive thousands of students without being bent! That's what's really happening. We've got some brilliant headmasters and high school champions all over the country. I just want to remind all of us that you may not be able to welcome thousands of new students into this position, but it can be the Icelandic education system. As far as the University of Akureyri is concerned, I want to remind the World of Congress that in the course of development to the University of Akureyri, there is an increase in 2016/2021 by 51.6%. If we compare him to the University of Iceland, the increase is 35.6%. We've been adding a lot to the University of Akureyri and the whole university, which, of course, is a lot of joy. But as if I've informed them. A senator is looking at this unique school, and we are truly proud of our educational system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u35	A respectable president. I'd like to seek advice here and wish the best of the team. President on written requests that remain. There are two people who have a measure of confidence in my heart. On the one hand, it is a request to the highest level. The Minister of Education, now 302 days old, has to deal with the U.S. Radio's fines and benefits. It was originally submitted on February 4, 2020, and then repeated on October 13, at the meeting. Then there is another inquiry to the new Hospital, ohf. and budgets for the construction of the new Hospital. It was originally brought forward on January 21, 2020, so it is 316 days old. Both of these are the inquiries of the making that I give myself the highest. Ministers are calling for information from one side of the State Radio and the other, a new U.S. International Hospital, an official community. The problem there is that information flow is not normally. I'd like to go to the top of the line for help. As far as pushing after these two queries is concerned by the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u36	The president is more than willing to consider it, and he will consider with the advice whether the answers can be expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u37	Mr. President. The person standing here has a long and sad experience of waiting for counsellors to answer, and to be honest, it's a pain in my heart to sit under it. At the same time, I'd like to thank the highest. A president for aiding in these matters was the issue of inquiry. But now it looks like the highest. Financial and economic ministers have taken up the habit at the highest level. Social Affairs Minister for not responding to queries. There's two queries to the highest. The secretary of finance, which then leads at the beginning of October, which has to do with the National Bank's sale of universal property and, on the other hand, a number of companies and individuals understand the loans to the apartment loans, which appear to have been taken on questionable terms and were returned to the province. I'm waiting for the highest. To respond favorably to this information, the president will help us get it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u38	As noted earlier, it is easy to find out if you can't expect to answer these queries.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u39	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on a bill for the review of various legislations due to budget 2021. In most cases, we talk about bandorm in that regard. As indicated in the opinion of the church committee. 430 discussed the matter and was contacted by a representative from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs as well as from various economisaries and sources of debates, as indicated. This bill has some features. To find suggestions for the rise in carbon charge, oil tax, general and special mile tax, common and special fuel fees, car charge, fees for alcohol and tobacco, according to the premium of a financial bill. The same is true of the price paid by the elderly and a special price to the state radio. In addition, there are changes in financial costs, i.e. The cost of monitoring, the increase of currency as a result of the payment of the Alduke's agent, the provisional regulations on the elderly's budget and provisional measures to prevent the increase in the expense of the household's activities in nursing homes as relationships with the spouse's income have been removed. There are other changes made in this bill, and I'm especially going to call attention to the rise in the rate of taxation of the genetic tax, as well as their annual changes, i.e. tax cutoffs based on the development of index prices. In the 15th. The bill is presented with several changes, as I mentioned, on the cost of public financial monitoring, including added to the increase of fixed fees paid by pension funds in order to obtain a stream of surveillance. Thus, the rate of the fasting of the overall burden of pensions becomes higher, coupled with a reduction in the proportion of the variable price. The review of 11 smaller and medium - sized pension funds shows the view that inconsistencies could divide the spending fees between the pensions if you look at their size. Less pension funds pay a higher percentage of clean assets in the form of a monitoring fee than the big ones. The committee requested in this regard a special memo provided by the Federal Commission for the review of these less pension funds and for some of them. notes in the memo that the changes in the bill generally reflect the costs involved in direct monitoring of each pension fund. But then, according to the word, by permission of a president: In contrast, a substantial proportion of the costs for the global pension system, such as analysis, risk assessment, legal development, and regulation, are involved. Because of these projects, as well as the cost of management, it is unusual that the smaller funds pay more than the larger ones. According to all of this, the SEC recommends that the tax system be submitted to a stream of monitoring and related tasks will be re-evaluated. As a result of the switch to fixed fees and variable fees, the share of the total burden is higher in smaller pensions compared to those of more valuables. Hence, the decision to make a decision to make a monitoring fee differs in the interest of the pension fund. So a greater proportion of the Economic and Business Committee agree on the importance of reviewing the details of the monitoring budget in order to ensure further equality between funds. At charges: 26 g. The bill is suggested to add additional fees to the provisional payment of a 980 pricing fee. every year in the coming year for each person 16 years of age and older. According to the comparable provisional principle, which is currently in force in the law, the price is 975. This year. The majority suggest a change in terms of an application charge of 1,080. every year in the coming year for each person 16 years of age and older. It is estimated that by the change, donations are increased to these ones, i.e. to religious and principles, about 280 million. K. from what is expected in the budget bill. The provision of temporary XXIV in the Act on VAT is set out in terms of tax binding requirements for import and the taxable sale of eco-friendly cars. According to the directive, this injudgation in the direction of the vehicle vehicle's linking cars is reduced from time to time at the coming end of the year. The Commission has received indications that, in accordance with the government's policies on energy exchange, there is evidence to delay the execution of this reduction. The majority suggest that the appeal of imports and tax-related sales of linking vehicles under the directive will remain unchanged in the coming year and the decline will first be implemented in 2022. provisional, same as I discussed earlier, i.e. XXIV's CREEP Act on VAT, is authorized to drop the value tax or count the exception of the sum of the sum of money at the peak of import and taxable sales of new electricity, hydrogen, and linking vehicles. The requirement also applies to the depletion of cost-employment tax for import and the first sale of used vehicles of this type, as the transport of vehicles is three years of age or more on the import date and date of sale based on the first registration. Commenting on the Driver's Association and the Association of Transporters at the bill, it is noted that no comparable authority on the sale of automobiles is available in the postmarket. Therefore, a operator who has made good use of the source should add a valuable supplementary tax to re-selling a car. In this way, car rents are encouraged to renew eco-friendly automobiles by resuscitating used eco-friendly cars are limited as well as the competitiveness of the sale of other vehicles that depend on the directive. In view of the above, the greater part suggests that provisional arrangements also take place in resuscitating eco-friendly vehicles, which are three years of age or less on the day of sale, relative to the first registration. Mr. President. Following the approval of a bill on income loss grants at this council, the Commission received indications that rule 1 mg. Section 5. The law, on the basis of a maximum concentration based on the number of status values between April 1 and October 31, 2020, excluded many individuals who would have been assigned to assist from income loss levels. It should, e.g. for monotonous workers who would have lost their jobs in the period due to lack of projects and small family business, where owners would have lost their fees or dropped them considerably because the extent of the business had decreased substantially and thus made significant employment contributions. In such cases, the position of the operator during the period would be either none or much lower, and therefore the volume of return would be calculated unchanged as a multiple of zeros or would be considerably lower compared to standard values that would give the correct picture of the operation. The majority of them think it's clear that income dropbacks have, among other things. they were intended to support such parties as the above conditions, which were 2 mg. Section 5. the bill, including the bill. intended to meet such events. An article with the bill said on this point: The main focus of this bill's operation is the workforce of the owner, and according to the experiences of his family, and thus a large part of the cost is calculated. If there is a substantial loss of income, it can be assumed that the amount of work done has diminished, as was the case with the equivalent of a remuneration. In order to support this situation, the operator is suggested in 2 mg. that instead of counting the cost for the period on April 1 to September 30, 2020, the operator will be allowed, but not obliged, to count to the cost of operating at that time the same amount as he paid due to the equivalent of the same month's equivalent in 2019.◯ During the therapy of the bill, the warrant was changed to calculate the cost of operating during the period that would give seven twelveths of the calculated tax returns to 2020, as well as the period extended until the end of October. In consultation with the Ministry and the IRS, this will add to the current bill the changes to the income drop-offs law, no. 118/2020, which will require a 2 mg change. Section 5. The law. In the case of an advantage, a higher monthly value according to 1 mg will be allowed to be aimed at the more appropriate sites. Section 5. to the value of those calculated as remuneration in the business sector relative to the period of work in 2019. The committee then cites examples of how this may come out, and I quote to that fact. Other changes that the greater part contributes to the modern bill are technical and are not intended to have material influence. According to the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be adopted with the changes made in a special Senate document, but under the opinion of the committee, this is the writer of Óli Kárason Kálson, and why. And the residue of Bristur the son of Níelsson, and Brutti, the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, and Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, and Willum Þór the son of Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator of prehistoric history who only wanted to have a word with him about the carbon tax that is now to be raised in the years of life, as it has been done. This is a relatively new tax in Iceland, laid on fossil fuels to reduce emissions and encourage transport energy exchange. At the end of the year, the tax will turn up, so it'll be $11. and 75 dollars per litre of diesel and 10 jars of diesel. and 25 dollars per litre of gasoline. Of course, such increases in in inflation, as are other rates of government success that are customary each year. I wanted to ask you why. A senator and perhaps take a little further into consideration that this tax has increased substantially in the time of that government. When the government of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, took over, the tax paid $3.6 billion each year, but it is due in this budget of 6.1 billion. Of course, this has negative effects for the homes of the country and for the job life, and the most interesting of these taxes is that Iceland's Economic Institute of Economics made an assessment of it in July, resulting in a report that is very interesting and odd about how little publicity she has received in the media, with the conclusion that the tax affects people's chemistry and has a negative impact on its benefits and consumption. A rationalization needs to be the reason why the taxes are laid, where they have to be very tall to work, to produce, and to produce land, and to reduce their employment after the carbon tax is laid. I wanted to ask you why. In view of the report, revise and review, and review the tax. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u41	Mr. President. Of course, the short answer is: Yes. I think it's normal for men to review carbon charges, as is true of all the tax paid by state and spells, at regular intervals. If there is material evidence to support a flaw in the process of that taxation, I am the first man to listen to it, and I do not talk about it if it is to relieve the burden. However, it is, in some respects, the amount of carbon, perhaps largely, the tax we are paying to pollute. It is some kind of price we pay to others for using contaminated energy. In that sense I can say: Of course, it's our policy, and I thought it was. A senator would be with us, trying to gain independence in energy, that we no longer depend on foreign energy and use our domestic energy sources, and then I don't mention the environmental issues that are of enormous importance, just mention an economic point. Not only does it save currency but it's a great national security case. I would have thought that the Central Party should be the leading part of fighting for the use of domestic energy and rejecting foreign energy. Maybe I misunderstood the Middle Party's lawsuit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. Hv. A senator listed these noble goals, but this tax does not result in our reaching them. It's just that way. In its report, Iceland's Economic Institute has declared that this tax doesn't work as if it's supposed to work. It doesn't work like a man, e.g. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Environment Minister, say it should work. This tax is not fair enough to settle the population. He suffers the worst of the plague of income. I urge senators to review this report, no one has discussed it. Clearly, there are other alternatives to this taxation to reach the goals discussed here. [[The president calls.]] I'm glad to hear it. A senator agrees with me in the need to review this tax and review it. I'm certainly hoping that he will take them for granted within the economic and business committee, where he's chairman, and within his company, and hopefully within the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u43	Mr. President. If I understand why. A senator correctly agrees with tax - stress targets but question the results of the tax. I am willing to do so at any time in any way and whether tax recovery or payment will be achieved in a more reasonable and different way than the stress of carbon pay. I don't think any senator would object to reevaluating tax returns or stress if reasoned information and the opinion that it is possible to be more effective in achieving the target. It's only wise to stand up at work like that, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u44	Mr. President. In 2010 a tax limit for the genetic tax was set up to 1.5 million dollars. and they haven't been changed for ten years. But this bill expects this target to rise to 5 billion. K. or about 233%. Other criteria were set in 2010 for this bill. These include the pay markets for disability. It was installed in 2010, and it is just under 110,000 bucks. a month, but if this amount had been paid, it would have been about 200,000 bucks. Now I feel that it is not good to allow such standards to wait for so long, neither the standard for the pay-employing costs nor any other criteria. But I'd like to ask why. A senator's argument for this priorities, changing the criteria for genetic taxes by 233%, which were set in 2010 at 1.5 million dollars, but not affecting the pay markets set in 2010 as well. Is this not a priorities that would have to be revised within the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u45	Mr. President. I happen to have at least twice, if I recall, it's the bill for a reduction in genetic tax. Hv. A senator should know. I wanted to lower the genetic tax to at least 5% to 75 million, if I remember correctly, and then keep the tax market. There I was coming to meet what was happening. A senator through a progressive tax system. A senator knows that I feel really bad because I like only one flat tax per cent, whether on income tax or not. I've said here for another reason that I don't like it, and I'm sorry, and I'm not the least pained at myself, that we didn't prosper here in this Senate to reexamine the insurance system in Iceland. It's true of the job market but it's also true of the whole system. There are reasons, but this does not change, for it is bad for us to need year after year to face up to the fact that we do not accumulate system changes in the insurance system that ensures their interests as we wish. It's not just about raising a job market. It's about cutting up the insurance system, making it more humanized, making it more understandable, and grasping this group that needs our help. Mr. President. I don't usually use big words, but I'm just gonna say it here that it's our shame not to have finished that case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u46	Mr. President. I can say with what. However, a senator's last concern is to warn that he or she has a reduced genetic tax at the same time as the population's growing estates. There are other criteria set for growth in 2010. The growing reform system has, in fact, lost almost 100% since 2010, making the system more and less home support. Little or no support is now given to children who have little or no money in their homes. A financial and economic memo to the Committee says that unchanged reference levels lead to increased growth rates for those in the upper part of the income distribution and about half of the amount for those aged 48 years or older. I want to pray. A senator to express himself on this development of housing reforms.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u47	Mr. President. In this subject, there are also pleasant explanations, i.e. this suggests that the majority of Icelanders have increased substantially, and growths have declined and are at the minimum historically low. These two things, of course, affect possible growth improvements, aren't they? Especially when people are getting up, of course, growth rates and growths decrease. The fact is, even though we are living in these difficult times, the highest debt level in Europe is in Icelandic households. It is lower, both as a share of the provisional element and as a share of domestic product than in any of the other northern countries, at least it was that way according to the numbers I have since 2019. This is a cause for joy. You see, there is an explanation for why growth improvements have declined and are first and last of all that income has increased. Hv. Senator, don't shake your head, this is a fact. We've lost the money. The homes's debts have dropped. That's the main explanation, huh? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u48	And the criteria do not change for ten years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u49	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator in favor of car clean energy, as well as clean energy cars. First of all, I was just surprised to learn that we had missed decommissioning worth tax on re-selling eco-friendly cars, just as we sold new cars. I think it's just something we need to take to all of us here in the hall not to have figured it out when we put that authority into the law. Of course, it is the same with newly registered cars and older cars, and the energy exchange is as relevant, so I rejoice that the committee saw it as it is working out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u50	We got help.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u51	The committee got help from the expert. But I'd like to ask further about the other suggestion of the greater part, regarding postponing a reduction in coincidence to link trucks because it's the second year in a row that more part of the Economic and Business Committee suggests such a delay. First, I would like to ask if the cost was evaluated. The coincidence is significant; it was to reduce from 9 60,000 per car to 600,000 by the time of the year. There's a lot of money for cars that's about how clean they are. The committee also noted that the Commission received indications that, in line with the energy exchange policy, this proselytization is in itself. I just want to know what's going on. A senator from whose tips were received. [[The president calls.]] So there is the origin of this idea in linking trucks and an assessment at government expense at the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u52	Mr. President. Now people can have a view of whether to continue that injury or, rather, to extend it to an indiscriminate 960,000 k. The evidence behind it is simple in itself. They are that motor vehicles would not be competitive with conventional vehicles using fossil fuels. That is why it is not considered the time to remove this injury, or rather, to extend it unchanged. It's a matter of trying to further contribute that people who buy cars choose rather, if they don't have the option to buy an electrical vehicle, at least to buy them. A link truck, instead of doing what I did two years ago, Mr. President, I bought myself a diesel dick.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u53	A respectable president. The answer should be short, because I just need to reiterate the questions, because it's not unmistakably that linking trucks are the right way to this point in energy exchange. Therefore, have made two efforts to either drop or reduce the appeal of vehicles to them faster than most of the Economic and Business Committees relied on them to support themselves. Therefore, the questions remain: Where did most of the committee's tips come from and how expensive the changes proposed in behalf of motor vehicles?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u54	Mr. President. This question cannot be answered with any certainty as to how expensive it is. If no linking car sells, of course it doesn't cost anything. If the indentation becomes reduced at its present rate and more fuel trucks and diesel cars sell than motor trucks can, then it can. A senator just wondered about the cost. It is also clear that even the tips received. from the car analysis relationship, other specialists and rentals and the tourism Association, which point up e.g. in the first place, research showed that motor vehicles have proved to be an important bridge to clean electric cars, and in addition, they are more suitable under current conditions, in terms of current energy exchange infrastructures, especially in the country, e.g. Senator. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u55	Mr. President. I recommend a committee program with a new proposal from the 1st smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee, which is the one standing here representing the Coalition of the Committee. As a result of the pandemic crown virus and the economic measures taken during the pandemic, there will be a rapid change in the budget for 2021 more people than in recent years. In this view, therefore, important issues will not be addressed to the community that is expected in special bills, such as unemployment insurance, social support, insurance, and child support. Despite being introduced in this committee party, social security bill is expected. The first articles of the bill discuss the rise of various remunerations. It is suggested that carbon bills, oil tax, generalised and special kilometers, general fuel fees, alcohol and tobacco fees, the elderly's financial fees, and the price to the State Radio increase by 2.5%, but not by 3.2%, according to Iceland's Aggressive Organization. A memo published by the Economic and Economic Ministry to the Economic and Business Committee states that even if the Office's economic forecast is all equal limits for the update of the crowning rate, it is now based on an increase of 2.5% in the interest of reducing prices. This has been done before but 1 less warning that expenses due to a particular cost and raised compared to inflation will be added and will not meet the expected costs. That is why I suggest that all centennial charges be taken for reassessment. Not only are the centennial fees mentioned in this bill but they need to be checked for all and at any cost, whether or not the currency will be what is expected. A fee intended to cover the expenses of a credit agent is placed on the owners. Part 1 shows that since the operation and support of governments that have come from a pandemic crisis, only to a small extent have slipped into the homes of those who have lost their jobs, and if nothing has to be done, there will be an inaction to the domestic debt problems and, at the same time, an increase in the activities of the agent's debt. In order to avoid long - term exposure to the cost and side effects of domestic economic problems, less than 1 strategies stress the government's success in avoiding long - term financial problems. It must not be that people who faced a difficult situation during the collapse of the bank end again over a decade ago. More is needed to prevent this. The equal availability of housing has always been among the main focus of the labor movement and of the equal. Despite government declarations regarding biographies, housing support reduces the seriousness of years and plans to continue. Overall, housing support through the growth reform system has reduced the absolute value of more than 70% since 2013 and even more if we look at the timing of the criteria. In 2013 and 2018, the number of countries that received growth improvements dropped by 27,000 and is still decreasing. By then, standards have been virtually unchanged since 2010, and according to the bill, they are not to change in 2021. This means that the system supports fewer and fewer homes. Young people who have little money in their homes now receive little or no support through the growth system. A decrease in interest rates reduces the quality of low - income workers who have little money in housing. The European Union of Iceland, in its reference to a bill for budgeted by 2020, notes that if the development of donations for interest development during the past decade, it can be seen that, in parallel, the development of the general housing system and the growth of the growth of the cost-of-employing facilities for the cost of earnings, contributions for growth reforms are added to a similar amount. The same goes for sharing loans. Thus, housing contributions have not been to compensate for their intended support but, in effect, paid with a reduction in another form of support. As I used to know before, in return to what. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason then notes in a financial and economic memo to the Economic and Business Committee that unchanged the reference levels will lead to an increased growth in growth of interest to those in the upper part of the income distribution and about half the amount to those aged 48 years and older. Part 1 requires that governments fulfill their promises to expand housing, to increase housing support, and to provide for those in need of such support. The budget bill for 2021 suggests that social security bills and pensions increase by 3.6% at the beginning of 2021. In comparison, minimum income insurance is rising by 4.8% per year according to the biography agreements. The health benefits of social security therefore result in significantly less than the lowest salary in the third year in a row and a worsening in favour of pensioners compared to the rest of the population. As a result, the minimum improvement in social security for an individual who lives alone will be 333,268 k. By 2021 and since 2018 has risen from 300,000 dollars. or about 11% at the same time as the lowest salary will have increased by 17% and will be 351,000. per month. For someone who lives with others, the minimum relocation insurance will be about 256,000. and has increased by more than 11% since 2018. Here, based on a relative increase in the rate of biographies, the same should apply to the increase in the GDP of social security. Therefore, the increase should be at least 15,750. in a month in 2021. The financial and economic newsletters to the Committee stated that the index of pay and the increase in the lowest salary have not been established but the average increase in labour contracts in the general labour market taking into account when they took effect. Thus, a government interpretation of 69 C.E. involves a built - in injustice. Act on social security. A reduction of 1st in terms of unacceptable damage to the terms of the elderly and micro-organization donor compared with other groups. The natural and rightful requirement that no one be under the minimum pay was reimbursed by the budget bill for 2020. The government of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter and the senators who have that government will want those who have everything to pay their social security, people who have not chosen their lot and the lawgiver to decide what will be, to be the poorest in Iceland. Among older citizens who receive sole payment from government insurance agencies, the proportion of women is high. In the past, some 70% of the pensioners who have the lowest approved interest are women who had part - time jobs or homework. Among the most prominent are women of foreign background. This group has earned little or no rights for payment from pension funds, and they have very limited resources to improve their terms. The gap between the poor and the rich is failing because of the inactivity of the government, who say one thing in speeches but choose another for financial gain and income bills, such as what we are here. At the same time, plans are made to reduce capital taxes. High priority order. Governments are clear and unacceptable. The first smaller section is severely critical that another year's payoffs will not be raised by professional biofuels. The cutoff target has been 109,600k. of 2010. If the pay line had gone up according to the pay sheet, it would be about 200,000 bucks. per month. The priorities of the government, the government of Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, are also clear in this regard. In 2010, micro-terrestrial centers remain unchanged, while tax-free limits due to the genetic tax, which have also remained unchanged since 2010, are increasing significantly in favour of the heirs. The taxation limit of the genetic tax is rising according to the bill by 233%, from 1.5 billion. K. 5 million. K. A smaller share of 1st suggests a two - step break target, 150,000 a.m. In 2021 and 200,000 hours. in a month in the year 2022. This is a modest suggestion that everyone should accept as legitimate and manageable for a wealth of government. The Icelandic Parliament was the first national council in the world to agree with a law on the fact that tampons, tampons, and other frequent products would be always available to all who are needed. The health authorities and rural areas in Scotland are to ensure that the law will be carried out. Anna María Allawawi Sonde and the Saga of María Sæþórsdóttir's daughter sent a review to the committee and pointed out the importance of menstrual availability, especially for young people who have little to do with their hands. Either young people are discriminated against by their parents'economic situation or the unfair demands that they spend the little money they have on the necessary products of frequent products. Because frequent products are as important as toilet paper, they should have equal access. Haemorrhages do not invite ahead, so it is important to have frequent products in the room, especially in schools and social centers where young people are. They also suggest that the tax will be taken away from menstrual food. A minimum of 1st times at the International Assembly of the Icelanders to take Scots is a legal example in these matters. This will ensure that in schools, vacation homes, and public agencies there will be frequent products. A smaller portion calls for a special consideration of the value of a menstrual system on the bill for a review of a valuable tax. The first minor part of the study involves the conversion of more part of the Economic and Business Committee on the tax incursion of linking trucks, the collapse of the worthy tax on retailed eco-friendly vehicles, and changes in income-gain laws. In this committee photo, which I have now recommended, there is an adjustment proposal that I previously made that the pay-free level will be raised in two steps. So, this is a modification proposal for a-team 22 gr. The bill. Then I, Mr. President, have reviewed the committee's opinion and ordered it. As I said at the outset, more tapeworms will come into the committee we have to go over carefully, the worms that will be discussed in the wind. A financial and business committee, but also on a welfare committee and could be equal in the community that we need to be especially careful about now in the pandemic, which is more difficult for certain populations in the community than for others. Such groups need to be especially careful.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u56	Mr. President. I'm sorry for how long I was getting into a pita. It's a long way to my seat according to my new seating ship. Thank you. Harðardóttir The single - handed explanatory explanatory drama in which she spoke for her minority mind. In 1st subject of the committee's opinion. A candidate is considered on the increase of various remunerations. It even says, by permission of the president: It is estimated that carbon tax, oil tax, general and special mile tax, general fuel fees, alcohol and tobacco fees, money in the elderly's labour fund, and price to the State Radio is raised by 2.5%, but not by 3.2%, according to Iceland's Favour Office's prices. In this context, and in view of a general discussion of total taxation in Iceland, I'd like to ask: "I understand that correctly. A senator is here suggesting that all these expenditures increase more than expected? The person standing here is far enough. During this special period of time, in this case of Covid, it might have been possible to consider paying such a price, as was done in the government of Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson in 2013-2016. I'm not in the head any year that it was as if these were not brought up by an index or a intended index. Lay down. Does this mean that the increase will be even greater than the 2.5%? I don't see a quick suggestion in this regard. Is this just a tip and a vision of the Conspiracy for which it is spoken?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u57	Mr. President. No, it is not that the one listed here is suggesting that the cost be raised more. I'm just making it clear that the fees are meant to pay for certain expenses. This cost increases in proportion to inflation, and if less fees are collected year after year, there will be gaps to be bridges. I'm simply pointing it out. I understand, however, well, and I know that more governments have done this, to just stick to the Dutch Bank's inflation aims to raise the cost so that the government does not raise the prices and the inflation at the same time. That makes sense to me. I was just pointing out that there could be a gap that needs to be bridged. It may be, Mr. President, that I would have had to speak more clearly in the committee's opinion first. I'm so misunderstood by a senator. I'm not talking about the need to raise these charges, but I'm sure I'd like to revise all the government's payoffs. In some cases, it may just be too high, and in other cases it may have to be fixed at the expense of tyres. We have all kinds of expenses and many more, as I said in my speech earlier, mentioned in this contraband. We need to examine them all and evaluate them. Sometimes it doesn't have to be raised because the cost of tires may have just gotten pulled together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a G. Harðardóttir. I'm relieved. A senator is not offering more payoff than is already in this committee list I, which is in question. A senator's only doing so, don't you think he's right? But isn't there some misunderstanding here? I think it would be wise to look at the charges in a critical manner in a very regular manner. But this connection has not been terminated in all dues. A senator listing? By the law of government finance, all this fees are going to go into a government fund. They do not have a direct connection with the underlying spending factor as before. I want to ask - especially because of it. A senator who is a former financial minister, I'm going to assume that she has an opinion of this - whether successful. The senator has these laws on public financial matters, where this connection has been terminated. I can say for myself that the connection is important to me. It promotes a sense of cost to the underlying tasks of the system and the public's sense of charge and tax recovery, which, in my opinion, is all too far over the system. In the light of the former situation. A senator who is a minister of finance, how does she feel this new law has been developed on public financial matters, in which this connection has been cut off? Is it not, then, based on a particular misunderstanding that specifically referred to by the president's permission that a smaller portion of the committee's opinion is concerned with paying particular costs and raising compared to inflation is not met and does not depend on the estimated cost?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u59	Mr. President. You're right about what you're doing. A senator who has a new law - we say new laws, but they are at least five years old - was cut off and the markets of income are running into government funds. Then they're to slide back to their assignments. But there were still things set aside, such as social insurance, insurance, etc. But this does not change the evidence that the cost is set, and when the amount is determined, it is referred to. In case of a moment. A senator has read bills that have come after 2015 with fee proposals, and the evidence is often the expense they are due to cover. [[Up front.]] It's often that way. At times, the charges are for controlling conduct. It is in some cases that way, but not in everyone at all. Most of the fees listed in the bill that we now address are intended to cover expenses and were originally put together with them. That's what it is, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u60	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a committee study with a modification form from a secondary part of the Economic and Business Committee. The lesser part is the one standing here, who is a revered senator. First, let me discuss just a few of the reviews received by the Committee, a total of 18. I'm going to go back to some of them and the viewpoints that are less important than things. There will also be cases in which 2 smaller objects cannot address the viewpoints and the changes presented in these comments, and a greater proportion of the Committee suggests. I'm gonna start off with a review that came from two young women, Anna María Allawawi Sonde and María Sæþórsdóttir's Saga, but in this review the government is called on to cancel the cost of menstrual taxes and make sure they'll be available in elementary and after-school schools. It is noted that girls need their lips before they earn their own money. So they must seek help from those in authority or for others to purchase such things that are difficult for many. Other smaller things agree with the viewpoints presented in the review. It is important to increase the bioavailability of these products and contraception for young people. In this context, Scots have recently decided that frequent products should be available without charge. Time - to - day products are not consumer products but basic items. This type of taxation is often referred to as a pink tax as a sex distinction. With law No. 67/209 was decided to transfer these products from a higher level of worth tax to a lower tax. A smaller section considers it time to take a thorough consideration of the step to complete and cancel the value of menstrual products and contraception. Encourages my 2nd to do it. At the same time, the possibility of a free access to menstrual products and contraception should be considered, at least when it comes to young people. Next thing I'm going to do, I'm going to go back to the BRSB paraphernalia and a credit card. The review of the BSRB says of the proposed changes in genetic tax, with the permission of a president: ▪BSRB feels normal that tax freedom limits raise yearly according to price, while it is considered that there is an increase in tax free limits by 3.5 million. K. too much in relation to current economic conditions and state funds income. Other smaller objects agree in part to these views, as well as to which restoration has spoken, should make substantial changes in the genetic tax. The bill presented here does not expect such changes, but what is suggested in itself is worth a fine reward. On the other hand, part 2 accepts a smaller section under the view that it would be appropriate to postpone this change for one year in view of a position in government, and to contribute the adjustment of the material. As a result, there will be a review from Land Protection, which includes a number of national groups. Showing the importance of carbon tax in fighting climate change. It even says, by permission of the president: ▪ As noted in many reports of Land Protection, the organization believes that high carbon costs are necessary and a just way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This is where the pollution prevention system is activated. In addition, international institutions and neighboring countries have shown that high carbon costs are effective without adversely affecting the economy. [...] This bill suggests that carbon pay on fuel. g.) and emissions of greenhouse gases outside the ETS (27). g.) only increase by 2.5%. Science prices have increased by 5% since December 2018, when the price was last raised. This increase, therefore, is not even in terms of GDP. A smaller section agrees with this important point of view and points out that it is necessary to raise carbon costs and costs for greenhouse gas emissions in stages over the next few years. Therefore, a second lower part suggests that the first step should be taken and instead of the 2.5% increase will be increased by 5% in accordance with the increase in index prices. At the same time, a lower share of the figure is strongly impressed by the government's using the funds of carbon costs and greenhouse gas expenditures to promote more greenhouse gases by restoring wetlands, forestry, and the innovations of soils. There were reviews that covered the application fees, including the application fees. From the National Church, the Conspiracy of Iceland, the Selæl Church, and Jónsson. It includes a basic requirement for application charges to be raised. A review from the National Church, by permission of a president, says: ▪ The Council of Churches declares disappointments with the above amount of money - i.e. The amount of money in the bill - ◯ and the fact that the 13th year's charges are intended to be cut in order to make religion's income and collected 54% of what they should be, but the sum of parishes should rightly be about 1,815 cents, no. Ivory 91/1987, carried out. [...] Remuneration is required not to be made by the State's contributions to religion and to the congregations but, rather, to collect in the collections of the members of that body. Other smaller items do not suggest an increase in application rate beyond what the bill expects. A smaller section thinks it's right to get started at once that the state has stopped collecting parishes for religion and principles. Commenting on this, the National Church concludes that it is the opinion that social fees are involved. It would be far better, then, for the individual parishes or institutions to decide for themselves the amount of memberships and to care for their own collections, such as other companies in the country. This is an important part of improving church independence, congregations, and lifestyle. Then these fine communities and congregations, all of them, can arrange their wages in accordance with their assignments, and they are not at the mercy of the Council for change and collect on those fees. It is the only right and fair arrangement that should be within that arrangement. Then I'd like to proceed in particular with the changes that are new then and that are not relevant to the subject of the bill, except for the first subject of alcohol charge. The bill suggests that alcohol consumption is raised by 2.5%, as are other figures in that bill. 2 smaller items cannot support such an rise and suggest that the cost will remain unchanged. There is no need for a wide variety of problems in the food sector, no matter what. A central part of the operation of most of these enterprises is drinking alcohol. The increase in alcohol consumption will continue to increase these difficulties and reduce the ability of the operator to continue the next loss. Hence, we make adjustments in order not to increase the amount of alcohol we drink. It is essential that we do what we can to help these companies through the least difficult times. Admittedly, alcohol costs do not increase, and that is true of all who buy alcohol. Our system, however, is now making it very difficult for us to get paid only for those who have a license to sell alcohol, so this way has gone. This is also suggested by a reduction of 2nd of the changes in insurance costs and suggest that a new section be included in the bill. The cost of earnings reduces the scope of jobs in order to create new jobs and maintain jobs, and today there is a great number of areas in which companies are needed to improve the population, but not the same, and that is, the essence, to reduce an intolerable amount of unemployment and, indeed, the serious consequences of long - term unemployment. Therefore, 2 less items suggest that over a 12 month period, next year, companies recruiting on unemployment or without employment at the start of recruitment will be paid off 50% of full insurance. If this is the case, it will be very encouraging for companies to recruit new people, and it will also help very badly those companies who have been in terrible trouble, who have had to resign people but who are trying to straighten out, to get such compromises. This is temporary until 12 months. Other smaller things depend on the changes that the greater part suggests. In particular, there is a new law on changes in income load laws, such as 212 cases in the current council, the taximatum for linking trucks, and the breakdown of valuable taxation in re-selling eco-friendly vehicles. In all of this respect, with the modifications and comments I've given here, 2 less items are provided for the bill to be agreed with the changes made here, and they're in four teams. They first show that carbon costs will be higher than those of the bill, about 5%, and that they will have changes accordingly. Second, it is suggested 2. Cut off the alcohol and its increase. Third, a new chapter is suggested after 36. Article 2 of the publication The Bank of Human Rights, published by Jehovah's Witnesses. ▪ Despite verses 1 and 3. 2.g. the job insurance bill should be 0.675% and the overall insurance bill should be 2.45% of the currency share. III. from January 1 to December 31, 2021, due to pay or to persons who start working for the paid party during the period, who are hired by an unemployment registry or without employment at the beginning of recruitment. Then, fourth and final, it is assumed that we will be 37. ..................................................... I've been over second place. We're trying to make a suggestion here. This includes the need not to overdo the government's tax institutions under these circumstances as well as to offer suggestions that all have the goal of improving the interests of people who are unemployed, improving the interests of an enterprise that is in trouble, and most important to us, that we may be able to take steps to progress in climate change, one of the most important tasks of our day. That project cannot suffer for temporary economic conditions. There we must keep on the watch. I believe, at last, Mr. President, that these suggestions are mild and reasonable.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u61	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Jón Skaldíddíri Valdimarsson gave the story where he recommended committee 2 less part of the Economic and Business Committee. First, I'd like to come into my mind. A senator and what the committee's opinion on the carbon account seems to be much less than 2 less things take under the view of Land Protection. It says, and I view this as a minor part of making those words to a significant extent, by permission of presidents: ▪ In addition, international and neighboring institutions have shown that a high level of carbon money works without adversely affecting the economy. Now I just have to ask who. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson, Parliamentary as at least At times, it seems to be on the right side of the center, is actually the view that high carbon charges work well without adversely affecting the economy. Then, on the basis of the permission of the president, this further suggests: Then it says: ▪2. the lower part suggests that the first step will be taken now and instead of the 2.5% increase will be raised by 5% This suggests a twofold increase in carbon pay compared to what is suggested in the bill. I want to pray. A senator, on the other hand, to review the goal of achieving progress by increasing the cost by 100% more than the bill is proposed in the highest bill. A financial minister and, on the other hand, the vision shows that high charcoal costs work well without adversely affecting the economy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u62	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and comments. I'm not particularly gifted with the definition of my colleagues here at the council, exactly where they are on the political spectrum. Of course, all of us belong to our groups, and I think more and less, hence, that we are living under the direction they are driven. We live in the luxury of being a center party. Some head right and others to the left, and some are just in the middle of the line. I'm sure it depends on my affairs where I am. But I'm going to ask you a question. A member of the council is, in effect, the carbon expenditure is a way of exerting changes in society, changes in the interests of the environment. We've been talking about, and it's even taken into this same bill that we have to encourage energy exchange in the community. We need to give invigorates to buy certain devices, mainly automobiles, and to encourage people to switch to these sources of energy is the carbon charge. It was quoted earlier in a report from Iceland's Economic Institute for Carbon Residence. It states that too low carbon costs do not produce the desired results. They need to go up. [[The president calls.]] Under those views, I accept. This is very clear in a report from the University of Economics.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Now I have not studied this report of the University of Iceland, and I may have taken the opportunity to do so before my speech is to be followed. But that's still the case. Environment Minister has confirmed in reply what at least I and my middle-class members considered clear on the evidence, that the results of the carbon pay could not be established so far. My vision has been that it is absolutely crazy to maintain here billions of dollars that affects the business and home of the country with lofty and beautiful goals, but the remainder of the bill, there is no real success to be reached, at least no success at hand. There is no evidence to suggest that success is achieved in relation to the objectives, by numbers judging travel, fuel use, and so on. Here we go. A senator in minority opinion 2. Less part that the increase will be 100% higher than suggested in the bill as it is. I'd like to ask you what. A senator thinks that it takes a lot to raise the carbon charge so that, as he puts it, to work, to bite, actually to prevent people from driving their cars, to place the high cost of moving companies to customers, the reduction in transport increases a lot, the number of flights when countries open again, how much higher. A senator that the carbon price needs to be raised a lot?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u64	Mr. President. I thank you again. A senator for the answer and the questions. I'm just going to review that at the time of reverend, happy memories, government, and financial secretary's office, carbon charges were just raised because of the views I used to trace. But it was a shock that when others accepted the administrations after the short life span of that government, including the government, the government. They that speak most of their glory were the first to cast off their charges. So we have always felt that carbon tax is a very useful tool in this context. But I'm saying if you want to influence people's behavior through expenses, of course, you also need to be positive in your system, green inducers, and we still have too little of them. Because of what? A senator asked me directly what I thought the price would have to be in order for it to produce real results, I'm not going to go to an independent assessment here and now. I just want to point out a documented report. I'm not saying that I would make them my own, but it says that the fees would probably have to be 30% higher. I quote a report from the university that was adopted earlier during the discussion. Somewhere this size is high, but the main goal we must not lose is that we are doing these things to achieve important goals, and this is one of the ways that we are able to achieve them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u65	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Steindór Valdímdar's Valdimarsson for a good committee opinion and a good talk about it. I thought his proposal, about a change in insurance law, was quite curious. Both because this is just a good idea, but also because it may not be as good as it could be. Then I'm looking at the suggestion text, which says that this value is about the salary or approval of people who start working for the hired party during the period, and who are employed by unemployment or who were without employment at the start of employment. Without thinking that this is going to be a major problem, this could simply prompt people to resign and even hire the same people again to get this discount. I'm just asking why. A senator thought about this possibility. Is it not simply reason, in view of the economic situation in general, and in view of the fact that the insurance pay finances employment insurance - and we need to think that it is very powerful at this time, but it is very difficult and harmful in many ways to the economy - simply to let go of all the words that follow the year 2021 as suggested. A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u66	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy very much for a positive review of the Commission opinion as well as for bringing up their concerns about changes in insurance requirements. Let me not rule out that there may be some temptation. To tell you the truth, I didn't have this in mind, I'll quite admit it, but this could happen. Actually, I don't think so. A senator made himself, that they should be ashamed to practice this. But the idea is that these are mainly the companies that are recruiting new employees after difficulties, etc. We know that there are plenty of companies in good business and all that. This may need to be examined. I do not doubt that this idea will be handled well, and it will either have to be placed in a Regulation or under pressure from the wording. It would have to be noted, then, that humans were not to have been employees of the same party or that at least one person had to be away from the employee for a certain period of time; one month or two might be chosen. I don't know if I understood why. The senator was right, that he was wondering if it should be premature or if it could start earlier. Of course, I'm open to a careful look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u67	Mr. President. I was actually suggesting that this would apply to all the companies for this one year. That may be a rather reckless suggestion. Now, we've been going through a year where the economy has been hit very hard, and we also know that the purpose of taxes is primarily that the rule of inflation rather than of funding the State. The government is fully capable of creating the money they need by means of their credit card releases and other items. With the economy in these difficult times, this may be a means of increasing the strength of resistance. I would've wanted this to have been more discussion in the early stages. The insurance bill is a complex tax, both because of its structure and how it is used in praxize. But if there's ever a reason to revise this tax as it stands today, I think it is now in the light of conditions in the economy. What I was suggesting was that you could just let this thing apply to all your companies this one year. In my opinion, there is also reason to accept the tax system as a whole for reevaluation, not with it in mind, not necessarily putting it down or anything like that, but simply examining it. Who's the tax system for today? Whose interests are serving?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u68	Mr. President. I appreciate the answer and the explanation. So now I reached my full potential. A senator was asking me. The smaller part was to scour it out so that it would come where the need was most, that it was directed toward new people -- to rise from the ashes if we wanted to use those metaphors - and would also be a powerful tool to encourage all companies to recruit people of the unemployment record, but it is extremely important to get to work. That was the thought. Happily, much of our economy is going well, but there may be good reasons to try to stimulate it even more, just because other parts of it are in trouble. Then we're talking about higher amounts, etc. But I'd like to soften the fact that the thought behind this was to have it somehow specific. But let me not rule out that the other might be worth looking at. For general consideration about the tax system, how it rotches, for whom it is, etc., it is one of the big carts we live in our society, and it affects all of us immensely, whether by individuals or by business. [[The president calls.]] That's why we should always be alert and ask ourselves questions about it, if it's money, and where the global and public interests are.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u69	Mr. President. I would like to start my discussion on this bill by referring to the fact that I had originally planned to return a specialist party, but I did not get it for many reasons. It is easy to begin using both smaller parts of the Committee, which had excellent opinions and practical suggestions. I don't think it's unfair to say that this bill in itself is just what we could expect from this government, and that's not a very positive statement. There is a systematic problem in the way this government has approached the pay side of government spending and government funds, and perhaps especially how it has made its appearance in recent years. This is no exception, and let me just talk about some of its features. I'd like to start by mentioning a major system-based object that just turns to the fact that Iceland's tax system is set up on a set of grounds that I'm not sure is necessarily correct anymore. They may have been right at some point. There has been tremendous progress in society, and progress makes it necessary for us to ask ourselves just what this system is for, for whom it serves, and for whom it does not serve, and perhaps especially where there is a real and final goal. When we look at the direction that has been run by the independent group, but also other groups through the years, we see that the tax burden has gradually been rolled away from common taxes, such as income taxes and other tax returns, to remunerations. This has been a process that has been going on for a very long time and is continuing in this bill, an increase in a registry that has not been reviewed. We know, for example. not how much it really costs to give the service that falls into the registry. There is, indeed, politics in that some of the Constitutions and the general state are points that we simply have political views. We have, for example, I think, most of the common understanding that there's not a lot to charge for coming to the clinic. We want to keep it low; some would even say it should be nothing. At the same time, most of us have the view that carbon costs need to be present and even need to be higher than they do today. But there is very much in government records that argue with some kind of reference that it costs some money, but no study of the cost of providing the services involved has been made. There's a problem that needs to be watched. I've been praying for many years that this will be considered, just because this has begun to bite more and more on the least earner and is actually a play where taxes are made to go down despite the fact that the actual cost of people'pay is rising. In fact, it's a cover-up tax in that sense. I don't like these plays, Mr. President. Now I'd like to talk about a few things. I'm gonna start with my parish fees. A few comments came to the Commission that turned to the application fees asking for them to be raised, even with quite a few references to a great stress this year. I can well understand that this year there was a great deal of stress. True, I don't understand how that stress is related to the cost of the parish at, for example. Maintenance of buildings. I would have thought it would actually stay quite unchanged between the years. But the other thing is that this is making a change on the part of the rest of the move, I think, 280 million. K. to attend at the same time as insurrection Scenario at the Land Hospital to 400 million. K., and more when you see that they are actually being made to return this year's tilt. I would have thought that this year, when we have had to rely on our health - care system as never before, there might be more interest in ensuring good health care than on religion and so on. True, it has proved to be a real challenge for many religions to support them in the extent that they are commanded by law. But this makes you wonder if it's not natural, in view of the fact that many parishes are holding around old churches, which are really culturally valuable, if it were not normal for them to be better equipped for the parish, that they could look for some common fund to preserve the building, much cultural value, rather than to be constantly raising the cost of applying for older ones. This is a suggestion that I think could improve both the interests of the parish and reduce the need to support religions in this way. In fact, in this context I would also mention that there are many amateur societies, various communities, all over the country that are paying their own social bills, and I find it unnecessary for the government to pay dues specifically for their parishes. I also wanted to mention frequent products. There was a fine report from two young high school girls that showed that it would be nice to have frequent products generally available in public institutions at least, and preferably to be replaced by a worthy tax. Because of a proposal made by the Pirates, which has been proposed several times, and the idea was, in fact, in a number of groups for a very long time, agreed this time to reduce the frequent products to the lower values of taxation levels. I think it's a great victory. It has not been customary to put many things into zero levels throughout history. But I agree with these girls that it would be fine if local societies and government agencies would generally make sure that these products are available in their buildings. We should also discuss as a congregation whether there is no basis for following the example of Scots in these matters. Recent laws in Scotland state that these products will be available simply without charge for needy ones. I don't know exactly what the consequences will be of that law, but it's something we should look at. There was also a review from the operators of an electrical shuttle that would improve the general lack of electrical rent on the same value tax discount as other public transportation and cabs with the view that it would be unusual for some types of rent cars, rented vehicles, to be the exception of a valuable tax and others not. I'm really sorry that the majority of the thing didn't agree with that idea, because it would just be positive, especially in the light of environmental protection, and then it would be just totalitarian. It is natural that if most types of public transportation were to receive this exception, it would be the result of all public transportation, including these, falling under it. There were reasons, for example, to argue on the committee that there was a basis for violating the value of tax deduction of public transport, that it would even in some cases be useful, e.g. Bus. I don't know if I approve that argument. But to the extent that this might be a good way, I am surprised that the committee did not go the other way, and the majority of the committee would have suggested that this be corrected, at least to the point of equal communication. This is something I would have liked to see fixed. With climate change and carbon bills, there's a problem. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason here in answer to several members of the Parliament regarding the carbon account and its rise. I felt that there was reason to mention that we know that this tax is a success in climate matters. He could be considerably higher. The Mention Code is good. We know that if carbon tax had been more extensive, in more countries - about 40 countries around the world today have a carbon tax of some kind - if it was more extensive and would be a much higher price, it is not clear that the energy exchange would be even faster. This may be a reason to consider whether there is a reason why carbon charges are not met, as is actually suggested in a bill submitted by the Pirates. This would be so that if we are very effective in limiting greenhouse gas emissions, if the result is good, we can lower carbon costs and if the results are bad, we could raise it. At any rate, this is an idea that we have made, and we are seeing a little of this objective in the Paris Convention to limit our expenses. But in any case, I agree with National Protection, which pointed out that a 30% rise was very normal. I wondered, " When does the government that wants to teach itself in some way become environmentally environmental? ' We know that climate change is a significant threat to life on earth. Don't you think it's nice just to take it seriously? I saw statistics a few days ago showing that only one country in the world had been able to achieve some of the goals of the Paris Convention. I was surprised to see that it is Marocco. I could do other things, but I think I'm going to make two finallys, especially on the timelines. On the one hand, the amount of alcohol mentioned above is not very positive in view of the conditions in the restaurant sector and might now be an excellent tool to limit it, even simply lowering the support of the companies who need it and especially theirs. It is clear that this too would bring to consumers in some way. Then there's the insurance fee. I thought it was a good suggestion for me by then. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson earlier mentioned that there may be a basis for granting some amount of insurance to an enterprise in the light of circumstances. I mentioned it, as in answer to why. A senator but would like to repeat that now in view of the situation in the economy, it may be a reason to give such a discount, if not for these companies, who employ new unemployment employees and thereby reduce the pressures on the unemployment reform system, even to all companies, for a short time as part of the resistance to this condition. I know it's not all companies that are making this economic and economic situation worse because of a pandemic crown. But it has become clear that this would be a form of public resistance in the economy, which could lead to positive results. At least this is something I would like to have the council examined. There are, for example, no more things that I'm going to make for a while except to mention in the end that I hope that the more part of this section is looking at the suggestions from both 1st and 2 smaller parts of the committee and taking them seriously and even, if it is time for me to bring in the adjustment proposals to e.g. worth the extra tax from electric shuttles, that more part is good at it. It is all too common for this council to ignore and vote against the smaller parts without looking into those who are truly positive suggestions and may be helpful.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u70	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. I agree with him when he says it's a fake game like this when we talk about reducing taxes and paying taxes, but the fees are raised for all kinds of services necessary. But, hey. A senator here talked about the alcohol charge, and it's certainly because of this pandemic, pubs and restaurants are in big trouble, and their representatives have set up a financial and business committee. And I want to ask you why. A senator whether it is the right thing to remember that in their history it has been said that the cry for a reduction in alcohol charge comes from politicians at the foundation, but it would not save their status or give them a great deal of resistance to escape the 2.5% of the alcohol charge. In reality, they are closed, and no one can come and buy any alcohol or such or few. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he does not believe that this procedure will not really be enough and that it is better to take other steps to support the restaurant operation. It is vital to do so, for we certainly do not want to come out of a pandemic and cannot go out to dinner or run out in a wave house with friends.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u71	Mr. President. Yes, a senator's luxury was that they did not contribute much to the reduction of alcohol, that's right. This is a true idea that usually comes from politicians, but remember, too, that the idea of alcohol also came from politicians, and no one really asked for it. If you think about it, alcohol is a form of conservative prohibition and is one means by which you try to control and control and change people's behavior. I don't think that these charges are necessarily positive in a society like us who wants to teach themselves to be an open democracy where people are free to make their own decisions. Well, it's one of those fees, and I don't think they should try to control people in this way. I think it's unfortunate. But it is true that there are other measures that would benefit the food industry much more, and of course we should look to them. I think, for example. The suggestion to lower the insurance bill would be a good suggestion. But then again, as I mentioned in the talk, the general remuneration rates that cross, of course, affect things like that. Diving permit, publishing literature and a variety of services funds, e.g. Healthcare surveillance and such. Although this bill may not always be the case, it is a manifestation of the tendency to finance the State more and more in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u72	Mr. President. I agree with what. It is important to revise and reimburse the case. When it comes to these products, alcohol and tobacco tax are used to cover health costs. The bad guy said it, I'll say it with a what. A senator's review of all records is required. But because it's frozen and I see I have plenty of time, I want to ask him why. A senator's priorities are expressed in this bill. It is referred to in some places as a set of criteria set in 2010, e.g. in terms of non-employment-employment costs and criteria, the 11th year. Of course, it is to reduce the quality of disability to go this way as well as those who have enjoyed the growth process so far, but now it is best for those who are 48 years of age and older in the upper income groups who enjoy the growth reforms. I want to ask you why. However, a member of the Parliament how he feels about the priorities of taking the criteria for a financial tax and raising them by 233% and planning to change the tax base to a taxpaying tax. [[The president calls.]] What do you think? A senator in charge of this priorities. Governments?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u73	Mr. President. Yeah, I think it's easy to say that it's a pretty bad priorities, and it's actually the other side, and I should have gotten into it in my speech that this is one of the things that really bothers me, that's always being raised the fees, but I'm never getting up the holidays and other coincidences. It's, for example. I've lost my value - I've lost my word, I'm not at my best today when it comes to using words, I admit it. These items, e.g. I've been looking for this, and other things that have been falling apart, shouldn't be drunk, should we even take a leap upward because there is simply a need to give these little things to all who need them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u74	Mr. President. I apologize, it's a long way in my chair. Thank you. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy for his speech. I'll start with another thing, but I was gonna come in here. I'd like to express special pleasure with a certain part of the counterweight. A senator before what? Harðardóttir " I don't think that this is how the senator was to direct people. " And he was talking about the price of alcohol. This seemed to me to be a very positive, respectable attitude that fosters less prescientism, but I have often experienced the words of fellow gang members. Senator of Porta's party. At the same time, the senator spends so - called carbon pay, the sole goal of controlling people's behavior. Would be a what? A senator to explain to me only if any lines are found in his apartment regarding this consumer control? I thought that the senator's involvement with alcohol was so fine, and that's where I agree with him. But I would like to see how he explains his stand on the carbon account that seems to be very interested in raising.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u75	Mr. President. Really, it is easy and joyous to explain this. Piranians are now very liberal, and they don't really want people to be controlled, want people to be free to do what they want, but that companies are bound by rules. Keep in mind that carbon charge is primarily a price for business and their behavior. Carbon costs as consumer management and behavioral bans on an enterprise are very positive, which is why it has been spoken of as increasing over time. It's not just my opinion, it's the opinion of a lot of others. So I allow myself to take a few examples then, the leaders of many companies in the energy sector around the world have spoken for this cost, e.g. A man named Anthony Earley of Earley, also Gérard Mestrallet of Engie, the largest energy company in Europe, and Eldur Sætre of Statoil, who is now named a different name. The World Bank's Summaries on this issue include those who work for oil companies and energy companies who spoke for such carbon pay, just to control corporate consumption. I mention these examples because it's not just environmentalists and others like this, but it's a direct call from the energy companies themselves who want to go from destroying the environment in a way that we've been working on since Edwin Drake found the oil for the first time. There is good reason to abandon such bad habits.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u76	Mr. President. Even though I did not consider this report as suppose. According to one senator, this is often the case, so the giants are better able to cope with the extra currency than are smaller ones. I kind of have to describe my concern for the answer. But a senator, for whom I thank him, where he said that it was all right with this carbon bill, just because it hung on a business. Of course, the additional cost of the country's business, just for every company in the world, ends with consumers, which in most cases, is an individual or a home. There is a fundamental difference in understanding if there is a problem. A senator believes that companies can be paid, and there is no impact on the budget of their households. Have I misunderstood? Is there anything or is he really that way?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u77	Mr. President. No, no, no. A senator may not have misunderstood me. He may have misunderstood how prices work on the market and how economistics are affected. You see, there is something called grouse, and it actually describes how much people are willing to pay for certain products. We know that when such expenditures run up under consumer prices, companies change their behavior to try to find less expensive ways to avoid the price, e.g. by burning smaller oil or releasing less carbon dioxide. As a result, consumers are actually getting all the benefits because they still do the same business with the same company, but without any effect on the earth's environment, by permission of presidents, who have a very negative impact on the environment of the earth. Keep in mind that this is the case when life on earth's environment is realized, and I can imagine how much cost will be lost in homes if the oceans rise, global warming becomes huge, etc., if the worst predictions happen to us if we don't control this pollution. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for his fine and material speech. I'm just wondering what I'm doing. paritaprevir Bergþór Ólason here, and actually why. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir too, i.e. this relationship between remuneration and what is believed to be the public's preferred behavior. Tax and tax expenditures are not only used to raise money for government funds and public funds but also used to direct people from undesirable behavior. This is a message to society as to what is desirable and what is undesirable. That is why you think that governments want to send messages to women that the use of frequent products is undesirable and therefore taxe them. You think of it, but maybe it's just an accident. But I wanted to ask you what. A member of the council with a little more carbon expenditure, which I think is a little interesting to think about, and if he succeeds in the fight against climate change, he might become an important tool. Where would it be, considering what? A senator starts biting? How high does the carbon charge have to be? I don't completely agree with what. A senator in the fact that this is never against the individuals, the citizens. Of course, this also focuses on the market and on their consumer behavior. But how high would it have to be so that they would bite and actually point people toward the road that is more important to life on this earth? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u79	Mr. President. This is an excellent question, and I make it a point that I do not necessarily oppose the use of economic incentives to encourage people in various ways. However, I think it is unfortunate that the State is encouraging people to follow certain political parties'policies regarding consumer behavior and what is really what alcohol costs and other fees. We certainly have incentives, and we could say that credit taxes are so high in this country because the original state wanted to encourage people to buy fewer things that cost their currency. This is a part of history that often forgets when we talk about our open economy. It's actually a very rescindable tax, it's a very harmful tax for the public. But that's enough. According to reports I've been looking at, the carbon costs are already biting. However, they do not bite hard enough, and National Protection stated in her view that there is no basis for promotion. They're based on a set of analyses that I haven't studied by myself, but a 30% rise might be something we should be watching. On the other hand, the damage carbon causes the climate, the temperature increase, etc., makes it difficult to strike a certain dollar. We could be talking about thousands of billions and even billions of billions of dollars harming the entire inhabited earth if we come to the worst possible conclusion. It may be, then, that at which point we start taking the possible future cost to the accounts, i.e. that the effect is correctly calculated. [[The president calls.]] But how to do it correctly, I don't know how to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u80	A respectable president. Yes, it is true that the worst possible outcome was just beyond any human standard. We simply cannot mark it. It is also essential that we keep in mind when discussing raising these carbon costs that it is a precaution to build and build up other means of transportation for the common people and to build them fast and well. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, after this, would he not consider it a bit urgent to begin giving in by means of that structure and where he would feel that such structure could take place and how?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u81	Mr. President. This is a question that would require one or two talks in order to review them. But you might, for example. It was a very positive point that last night, Reykjavíkurburg announced a series of major activities that would even turn. Other means of transportation, highways, and bikes throughout the city, and so on. There are positive ways to try to make alternatives rather than constantly pollute. It's also because of what I believe is that the idea of a merit tax discount for an electric shuttle would be good. That would actually be added. The whole thing is the effect we haven't been paid to pay for that will ultimately cost human communities worldwide. If we don't take on them and react to them, we'll all be hit by this fee. [[The president calls.]] This is not the cost to be avoided, it is an expense in which only an argument can be made about who will pay in the end.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u82	Mr. President. In the beginning of this case, I would like to recommend a change to bill to legalize various laws due to budgets for 2021. It reads: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. par. put it The law adds another provision temporarily, as follows: The minister should revise the amount of money and the preparation of a carbon account. Chapter I of the University of Iceland's Economic Institute of Economics, the effect of carbon tax on fuel use, from June 2020, of presenting a law bill, or of reporting on this review to the Council no later than March 1, 2021. This makes the suggestion. 1st par. As it stands now in the bill, the cost does not increase by year. I want to be here, Mr. President, now that I've recommended this adjustment proposal, a little bit over the carbon tax that according to the bill is coming up at the end of the year. We know that this tax is relatively new in Iceland, and it is laid on fossil fuels and is to reduce emissions and encourage transport energy exchange. He's supposed to be up the year and he'll be $11. and 75 dollars per litre of diesel and 10 jars of diesel. and 25 dollars per litre of gasoline. This, in turn, will lead to increased inflation, as is true of many other factors in this bill. This gives us reason to consider why it is always the government that stands out by raising a number of legal requirements that, in turn, raise inflation and thus lenders to the people of the land and many more. The increase in taxes also affects the cost of transport and, at the same time, increases the price of goods and services. It is clear that this tax has gone up substantially in the history of this government. When the government of Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, took over, this tax, in turn, returned 3.5 billion a year to a government fund. This year it is 6 billion, or approximately 6 billion. 6.1 billion, almost half increase. This increase has negative effects on the homes and jobs in the country, and it has been shown in a June June issue of Economic Institute for Economics. In particular, there are two factors that make this tax unfair and aimless in my judgment. He is unfair because he is not leveled against the people of the land in a fair way, and he takes special advantage of the wealthy, as shown in a report by the Economic Institute of Economics, and in the country. Second, it's aimless because it's put in the interests of climate, to fulfill Iceland's commitment to climate, but the taxes are not marked by climate action specifically and only part of it flows there. Environment Minister has acknowledged, in writing, to a request at the General Assembly, that the results of the tax system cannot be determined. A report on household fuel use is published by the economic agency, and its use is of interest to us. It must be said at the moment, Mr. President, that I am amazed by how little attention this report has received and how little attention the media has shown it. If I draw the results from the report I have here into four teams, I'll say that the tax affects the color of the tax and adversely affects their costs and consumption. I cut especially after one hit. A senator earlier in the discussion, a Smári Mccarthy, felt that the tax wasn't gonna work hard enough. Clearly, he feels that he should bite even more heavily on people who are materially poor. That is a thought - provoking point. The report also shows why the tax needs to be more convincing. Third, the tax has to be very high to work. We can see the consequences of a dramatic rise. Fourth, the report says that land production and employment are reduced after the carbon tax is laid. I can't see anything else, Mr. President, but this report is a sentence against the government's carbon tax policy and confirms what the Central Party has always said about this tax. To my judgment, Mr. President, this is not a preemptive form of taxation to the public when the results are very uncertain and the successes are worst on the poor people and the inhabitants of the country. Therefore, this adjustment proposal is proposed that this tax and economic minister will simply be carefully reviewed from that study and the opinions of March 1 will be submitted in the following year. Next thing I want to do is change the application fees in the bill as specified in Section 26. It is of interest that in these days, when governments have taken many measures to protect both companies and individuals in the major financial losses that many have suffered during the epidemic, the cost of a national body of beliefs and records should be 1,080. every month next year for each person. In fact, it is according to a modification proposal, there was a slight rise from what was stated in the bill today. In fact, the price was to be just raised by 5 K. By bill, from 975 to 980. Of course, I'm glad the government is taking this little step in the right direction. But the conclusion is that the 13th year is being cut off, and that is the point. Therefore, according to this suggestion, the funds of the churches should continue to be reduced by the authority of legitimate social fees. Thus, the religions will suffer another year's loss of income, making only about half of what they should be under law. Surely, then, there would have been no less reason for a measure of rescue measures, as the situation exists toward many people and is full of need. The fee will be according to the bill, as previously said, 1,080k. the month next year, but should be 1,815 k. if the application fee had been carried out. It is a cutoff that began in 2009 and has not actually ended since and is completely out of step with other measures taken after the collapse of the bank. As to this fact, there are really no differences. In fact, two members, appointed by the Minister of the Interior, and some other experts to whom the Ministers have called, have clearly confirmed that religion had a greater degree of impairment than any other member of the emergency measures adopted after a bank collapse, as well as, of course, that such measures have long been completed to other authorities than they continue to pay. In total, over the thirteen years there are a total of 16 billion dollars in attendance. That certainly represents less than that in the past three years, the total amount of money from a government fund to the National Guard. This huge drop in income for religious organizations has caused many of the land's parishes to simply get ahead of themselves financially. Since there has been little or no maintenance in many churches and congregation homes for over a decade, problems due to leakage, mold, and other consequences of neglected maintenance have now been raised in many areas. Similarly, because of economic hardships, many have reduced their whole - time activities and services, and at the same time, public members are directing more and more people to the church in hopes that social and financial assistance will be available when organizations do not have other options. Now it is even time for the parish not even to receive loans or other payments, such as this one. In business banks, where congregations are no longer considered trustworthy businessmen because of financial problems. You could say that all of them are banned. Over the years many have been warned that this situation was imminent, but, unfortunately, government reactions have been minimal or absent, and the only response has really been to direct the congregation year after year, to provide increased management in handling these situations. It should be clear to all that for 13 years, no one will be able to manipulate a year in order to finally meet the decline of income by 50 percent at this time. Such economic management will ultimately only result in cutting down on important tasks, neglect, and destabilization of real estate, to name something. What else would be there when congregations, after years of surgery, are intended to live on almost unchanged income despite rising wages, rising expenses, and continuing interest payments? Some people argue that this is just the case, and the government can only determine for itself the financial value of this category, but if it is claimed, then it can be said seriously that the important facts about the actual status of the parish account are overlooked. It is not the contribution of the State to religious organizations, as is often indicated. Rather, it is the subject of the state that collects members of the church's social fees. To explain this, it is necessary to recall that when tax market pay was adopted in 1987, the government wanted to eliminate so - called nose taxes, which were once collected by local tax collectors. They were based on these changes. Hence, the church and other religions were offered that the State should collect parish pay and then give it to the right party as a percentage of income taxes, just the same as the government took on the change to collect an outback for the rural communities. This arrangement was then passed on to the legislation on the current application fees, etc., No. 91/1987. A bill to them says that the main reason for the proposal was that religions maintain their income stock intact compared to what they previously had. It is also important that regulations that will ensure stability on their income stocks. The report then says that the benefits of the target of calculating and changing the costs are mainly those that are simple in practice, guarantee permanent stability on the acquired income stocks, and follow changes in income. This made it easier for religions to plan their income and to build financial plans for them. In the ensuing speech of the bill, a minister specifically stated that this change was not a change in the fact that this was a matter of the social fees of the churches that the State is now taking in. The level of the charge was then calculated into the global burden of public pay in exactly the same way that was answered and has been collected as it has been ever since. However, it is now obvious that this arrangement, adopted in 1987, has not been established in the 2009 parish. In other words, the fact is that the State's fees have been cut down so that the State renders only a little more than half of the fees paid. The rest is simply given into a government fund, and it must be considered a fairly generous debt, not to be taken lightly. Some even wanted to put into their mouth a much stronger word about this conduct, arguing that the organization was being placed in this place free of charge. The current financial minister made it even. In 2013 the above words were, in effect, money or theft. It must be clear that this matter will be seriously examined and then agreed to correct at least some of the wrongs that have become. It can be believed, then, that governments are seriously seeking to compromise their religious functions, as now seems to be the case with religious freedom in the land. The adjustment proposed by the majority of the committee is a small step forward but is not sufficiently satisfactory. At the same time, it is necessary to correct a thirteen - year violation of legitimate social fees that the government has taken to collect. So said, on the charge of the parish and the need to correct it once and for all, I'm going to step away at the end, Mr. President, only to the inheritance tax. I'd like to commend the fact that he's here making changes in the right direction. The tax paid by the tax paid by the tax paid by the tax paid by the donor is annuity tax. Those who prosper leaving behind any worldly possessions for their offspring after death have paid taxes in their lives. Everybody knows this. There are old and new tax issues, both in the present and in the past, that people accept paying fair taxes, but they tend to escape when the taxes are unfair. Of course, the aim of reducing the tax rate to 5% should be to any level of incest. We in the Central Party have emphasized this. It is also necessary to consider tax therapy in a pre-financed inheritance. It has become increasingly common to see that inheritance is in advance. This change is a step in the right direction, the fair is up, and surely thanks is to be done. But better, if it's enough. More important, though, we need to ask ourselves, " How reasonable are the charges of genetic taxes? ' There are a number of opinions on tax returns in the West, and no matter where the question is asked; everywhere the public believes that genetic taxes are the most unfair to the government. For example, credit is unfair, simply based on common tax laws. It is a twofold taxation. They're taxing what people have left their lives, and they've been paying income taxes and credit taxes on the amount and property tax all their life. They are taxing ambitions, taxing what they have earned in their lifetime for hard work and advice, and putting forth effort for the economy and society, paying what they had, and caring for the family. It is unfair to pay taxes in particular for having made a success of life. That's why we should be trying to reduce the tax rate further. I will finally say, Mr. President, that many other things I would have liked to cross on this bill, but for the sake of the time, it will have to wait until later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I took it as a matter of fact, in his speech, in protests earlier today, he has referred extensively to the University of Iceland's Economic Institute for Economics. I have to admit, Supreme. Mr President, I'm impressed. Rather, a senator freely accompany her and picks out what is in his heart. It's interesting to me that the adjustment is interesting. A senator proposes to revise the amount and design of carbon money. I really can't read anything else from that report, but if it was higher, the carbon charge would have even greater effect. I wondered: " Is it? A senator suggesting that the carbon bill be raised? A respectable president. When I read this report, I can't read it out of her that in some way it's talking against a carbon charge. Hadn't said that, I'm a senator who prefers more than an increase in taxes, but I also realize that to be successful in this matter, there is a need for a degree of interaction. It is also important to remember that in this report it is not to speak of the interaction with the motivation we have put on to promote an investment in vehicles that save fuel and use renewable energy but only the carbon tax. A respectable president. Watch your step. A senator might further explain this to me? Then I have to take this opportunity and call again and again, depending on what the Central Party's policy is already on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u84	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. The report is here, and I don't think she can be misunderstood in any way. It's very clear. I've studied these four factors, which are the results of this report. It clearly shows that the tax affects the poor and adversely affects their benefits and consumption. Therefore, I will never agree that this tax will rise. That's not the point of the motion. Its purpose is simply to discover what the report says by the government how unfairly this tax is leveled against the population. The report says that more evidence needs to be given why the taxes are laid. Environment Minister has acknowledged in written answer to a inquiry here at the General Assembly that the results of the tax system cannot be determined. It's just not incorrigible, isn't it? A senator, this is the way to tax when it has been admitted that the results cannot be determined. It is stated in a report by independent partners that it is worst for those who have mentioned between hands, that national production and employment may be reduced if the carbon tax has to be placed and that it should return something that is likely to end the use of fossil fuels, if it should be very high. They see the consequences of doing so, even if only to a wealthy person.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u85	Mr. President. I'm going to repeat that I think I'm sorry. A senator picks a few arguments from the report. I'll have to read one sentence from the report, with the permission of the president: ▪ If people realize that carbon costs are permanent, and thus prices are likely to increase, they will eventually obtain more fuel - efficient vehicles or electric cars or even switch to public transportation. As a result, there may be a greater stretch in the long run. It also reviews how this may affect an enterprise. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ This suggests that the biofuels of an enterprise are higher than in homes. In other words, a company reduces more than a home's use of fuel when it is rising. A respectable president. I'm going to reiterate my inquiry to what? Senator: What is the central class's policy when it comes to climate? I have to admit that I have not heard anything from this symposium about how serious the climate is or how the media intends to react. On the other hand, I have heard the solutions brought here, heard the Paris Treaty spoken down, and I have heard that we are simply to predict what India and China are doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u86	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. She was reading the report, and I'll read the report as well. On page 18. 8 says, e.g.Unable to connect to POP server The standard of living for low - paying people is more likely to be affected by the report than by others. It goes on to say that in income - high homes, the cost of rising is relatively low. I don't see that this consumer management that is being put up in the carbon tax is having results in this. There are some facts in this report, and I encourage senators to study it. The results of foreign research on the effects of carbon taxes are reviewed. It says, for example. In Ireland the effect of a carbon tax has been identified, and the conclusion was that carbon taxes had not changed people's use of fuel in that country. [[The president calls.]] And there are a number of examples in this report that make it necessary to review this tax. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u87	...this year?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u88	Because of the time, I can't answer any more questions. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u89	Mr. President. I'd like to start by talking about the carbon pay as long as possible. In his talk, a senator turned aside somewhat. I noticed that he called the carbon tax from the country. It is widely known for the Middle East to play the case so that the settlements and capital areas somehow stand in the form of an eternity of standard of living in this country. But I just want to hear how he gets it that the carbon cost of fuel is a national tax because they are likely to work on individuals in proportion to their use of fuel, which is again proportional to the use of vehicles that supply it. The difference between people's average cars is no one between capital and national. In 2018, the average human car crashed into the capital area of 12500 miles, while the average person's van was in the region of 13,000 miles. One thousand thousand miles and a thousand miles. This is not the big difference that he justified painting some local tax product here. So I'd like to ask the senator, because he had a historical review of carbon evolution, whether he did not really consider how the price has been paid during the 11 years it has been to the people. In 2009, each ton of carbon dioxide cost about 4,000 dollars. Now it's 4,300 bucks. But if it had been worthy of him, there should be about 5,000 of him. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u90	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I would have chosen that he would have reported what test he quoted from 2018 because it has been demonstrated by the Ministry of Economics that citizens of the country drive more than those in the capital area. It's natural that they have to buy more fuel. This tax comes per litre of fuel, diesel, and gasoline. It says that it has greater influence on those living in the country, who drive more. In addition, not everyone can afford to buy an electrical vehicle and a network of loading stations is not a major problem in the country that it can be considered convenient at all places to have electric cars there. In addition, there is no evidence to indicate that electronic devices, machines in agriculture, and so forth, are available to use agriculture as such a lot of diesel machines. There are reasons why the area is affected worse than the capital. I think that's safe to say. Then asked why. A senator for an increase in the price. I just have to say, there's nothing to be done about it, and I've traced it here, that the price has risen tremendously in the history of this government. I mentioned it specifically, 3.5 billion to 6 billion in three years. Don't we have them too, then? A senator, looking to that? [[The president calls.]] What has that tremendous increase brought to us? That's the answer. There's no way to tell. The results of the tax work cannot be determined. [[The president calls.]] This discussion makes me feel that it is the most serious thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u91	A respectable president. The very small difference between the middle operating cars by the location of people at home, I saw in some presentation related to the climate action program and was so curious that I got a walking agency to call this out of their database. It shows that the average driving of the capital area in a car was 2018 12533 km and out of the capital area, 13,043 miles. It's based on the figures of a car inspection, so these are real numbers, divided into these two groups as a dog. For example, when it comes to carbon pay, a senator would like to be unassigned. But the numbers just show everything else, that's exactly the same position. I didn't mean to spend too long on the carbon charges. I just wanted to mention another hobby of mine, which are my parishes. This is where it went. A senator for the prehistoric history of parishes and that when decommissioned as an independent income stock in 1998, when they were incorporated into total income taxes. Since that time, has it not been possible to talk about a social fee, so that all this talk about government fraud or stealing - wasn't it, Mr. President used by the Senator, did he not find himself a thief in this case? - I feel the slightest bit said from loose air and always getting away from reality. For example, the State does not have any social group for religions or institutions. Rather, it simply registers an individual, each charge for written religious organizations, or institutions of life. [[The president calls.]] So there is no basis for all this talk of fraud on the part of the parish because attendance costs are just imagination. [[The president calls.]] They do not exist as social fees and have not been for 32 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u92	Mr. President. Thank you. Senator. There was no inquiry here, it was just his opinion of the parish fees, and I disagree with what it was. A senator said. It is obvious that these costs would be much higher if they had not been affected by a financial breakdown in 2009. I've not been referring to a thief's identity alone or anyone, but I was simply quoting what happened at some point in an interview. We must realize that, and it was shown in this discussion that cultural value is being undermined because congregations have not been able to maintain normal maintenance of churches that are culturally valuable and important in cultural history. How sad it would be if they simply went to court because the government funds have not been able to deliver legal donations for parish pay! [[The president calls.]] I think it's very important for the state to keep its place in this, and it hasn't been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u93	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson for his speech. I cut it to the end of the day. paritaprevir Bordi Haraldsdóttir asked about the Central Party's policy on climate and an outstanding answer to the fact that I heard a carbon tax in Ireland. That was the next thing he learned about the policy of the Central Party in these matters. But we, who have at times listened to talks by members of the group and by the way. The senator on these matters has not avoided seeing that the recovery of wetlands is minimized, the removal of the Paris Treaty, and the rest of this blessed carbon tax. So you start to wonder which way. A senator thinks it's a problem, whether there's any harm here. Is carbon dioxide emissions may be desirable, as considered. A senator? Or does he think that carbon dioxide emissions are of no importance and all of these are myths and no reason to react here? If he thinks there's a reason to react, which I'm not sure at all because I haven't heard it before. A senator believes that it is, what can he see to it that we can do?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u94	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's excellent answer, well presented as his hope and direction. I'm not going to do any big stories in this matter. Surely, all of us understand in this council hall, wherever we stand, that the temperature on earth is rising, and the prey are rising, and this is affecting us. We're not denying it in the Middle Ages at all. However, we have emphasized that the action we're taking within the country, and then I'm talking about in Iceland, is going to have to be very rational in what we're doing. If we're going to tax ourselves through this problem, then the taxpayer has to be successful. A senator, and that's what I've been stressing in my speaking about the carbon bill. There is no evidence of the success that some people have been claiming to have. It's confirmed to the Environment Minister. I've been referring to a report that says that this tax needs to be handled very carefully, and it needs to be proved much better. In this regard, I use my power of reason. But we in the Middle East are not denying that there are climate change, as is true, and the problem is serious. You're right about what you're doing. Senator. It's just about being realistic and rational, that we're doing things that work. And because the name of the land was called, and the tribute was upon the coasts thereof, and upon the coasts thereof. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson doesn't want to admit it, so I'd say that carbon bill is more expensive. [[The president calls.]] For example, much of the country's population is dependent on them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is a great man for the counter-sponsored. It is good to hear that he believes that there is only one reason to use reason and reason and that action primarily needs to be successful, but he does not doubt the purpose in his own life. We seem to be in the same place about what we think we should do, and in my opinion, the lesson we must learn is that there is not enough to be done. There is not enough rapid development of the resources available to people and companies, especially about electricalized advantages, the structure is not fast enough, and so that the carbon bill is not high enough, i.e. Don't bite enough. [[The president calls.]] I have passed, but I still wanted to use the second answer to enter it. A member of the Parliament, whether it is possible for the parish to be too burdensome for the poor congregation to have expensive and intense parish churches and perhaps there is reason for decommissioning more churches in order to reduce these costs. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u96	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Because last year, I think I did. A senator has asked what we in the Central Party wanted to do in climates, so we have, for example. I am a great advocate of growing forestry. I personally believe that forestry and land transplant should be our primary objective in fighting the climate problem because the results are so obvious and so great. Therefore, I believe it is urgent to start deforestation and land - healing campaigns and to enter the seminary of the money and money needed. Because wetlands were also mentioned, the results of the recovery of wetlands of greenhouse gas emissions are uncertain. Therefore, it is important to investigate before it is deemed necessary to make such plans the main thing in Iceland's strategy for greenhouse gas binding. [[The president calls.]] We're just getting close. A senator, in a reasonable way and to see results, would like to be treated with the most effective measures rather than taxing the public, the paid people by action that is not known which will be returned. [[The president calls.]] I see the time has passed, Mr. President. I can't answer this with the churches, but of course I'm completely opposed to destabilizing churches. Senator. Maybe he should know.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u97	A respectable president. I thought it'd be interesting to look at this bill to correct the changing of various laws because of the budget, where it's represented by the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, to find room to raise expenses and where it's not. There may be two examples I would like to mention. I want to examine them not only on the bill in front of us today but also on similar decisions made a year ago. First, it is the application fee proposed by the Economic and Business Committee for one year to raise about 5% from what the Minister proposed. At that time, the economic situation had only begun to harden, drop WOW, and put a slight blow on the state's farming but still a financial and business committee proposed a 930 bill. of 975. every human child above 16 years of age. Now that we've seen another economic situation, the valley's toughest recession, the 100th year, or whatever it is we're up to now. Then, more part of the Economic and Business Committee doesn't suggest raising the cutoffs by 5%, as before one year, but 10%. Now let's get out of 980. to 1,080. every human child above 16 years of age. This total cost is 280 billion. K. I don't always feel that it's better to be comparing the other and this budget team to show why we're supposed to do this but not the other, but I can't resist the temptation to point out that this change is a major part of the Economic and Business Committee of 280 million. K. is on the same page where the committee claims to be unable to reduce the value of monthly taxes, as the commission received from two young women. A respected increase tax in menstrual products was removed from the top step to the lower level, costing 40 million. Likely, it would cost a similar amount of money to be taken away from the worthy tax. This same page does not provide room to add 40 million to reducing the price of important necessities, but it has been found 280 million to raise attendance costs by 10% at historical low points in the economic history of the country. The other comparison I'd like to mention is the wills for link cars. It happened at the same time last year that the secretary of finance and economics had suggested that they be put out of will for linking cars on December 31, 2020. So this indesensitization was to run its course, having served its purpose, increasing link trucks as active as such intermediate technology while clean electric vehicles were not in position to serve fully the energy exchange. This proposal by the secretary of finance failed to accept a one-year economic and business committee and suggested that it be extended to link trucks to the end of 2022. Something has cost us because this year 2,000 minivans have been imported. The coincidence for each of them and for each of them may be 9 60,000 k. In comparison, the roof of an electric wheel with a wheel that costs 400,000 p.m., saying the total cost of the most expensive electric wheel the state is willing to support, does not mean that half of the world's greatest indignities are ready to put into contact trucks, a year after the Minister proposed, in accordance with the energy exchange strategy, should be out of order. Now the Economic and Business Committee is playing the same game. The majority suggest that the reduction in the indiscretion to take place next year. At this time of the year, according to a provisional law, the law is going to cut out of 9 60,000 dollars. every car down to 600,000. A share suggests that this amount will remain at 9 60,000 dollars. ... forthe followingyear. In answer to the president of the Economic and Business Committee, I asked how this was going to be because it is not in the committee opinion where the indication of this change comes from. Then said why. A senator remains the Cartel, who, with all due respect, does not have a complete view of transport energy exchange or public plans. Hv. paritaprevir In addition, Óli Kárason Kármson told me that there is no way to shoot at the expense of this change that most of the committee suggest. But I tried doing a little butt pocket calculus. As I said earlier, there have been about 2,000 trucks who have been importing the remaining ones of this year. Suppose next year the number of cars will be moved in, 2,000 apiece, and it is likely to fall from 9 60,000 k. to 600,000 what every car can get. There's a further 3 60,000 k. every car. 2,000 cars times 3 60,000. each car reaches a maximum of 720 million now. You see, we're talking about real financial hills. There's another comparison. The building of fast - loading stations, the infrastructures needed to drive the energy exchange to enable people to see clean energy cars as a practical option, was 2019 and 2020 was especially supported by the Power Fund by 227 million. Then I would be tempted to ask: " Am I more effective in supplying energy exchange by subsiding links by an extra 720 million or by taking that coin and triple by making fast - loading contributions - triple? I think the account would be very simple. What this change also reflects is that we still have the economic incentives in the energy exchange way too much on the indiscriminate side. We're still looking at the carrots, not the sticks. Let's look at Norway. Long ago, we no longer dig through contact trucks. Also, all costs on fuel cars are being screwed up to speed up the transition. We don't even start touching fuel trucks around here. There is another factor that much of the Economic and Business Committee could have been considered. It is the development or new information that has revealed the way of an Ecosystem link that the Committee is so interested in enjoying much longer than the Ministers suggest. On the one hand, it appears to be a possible new thrift on the rise. When it was discovered that car producers had falsified emissions to get gas cars into lower reciprocations, it was like we remember. It is to be seen that motor vehicles are likely to pollute considerably more than the given figures say, especially when they are emptied and that they run exclusively for fossil fuels. You see, according to these figures, they'll rather be contaminated cars. It would take more than a part of the Economic and Business Committee to take a better look before he decides to open the bank for 720 million. K. or what it could be for cars that are not necessarily as green as we want them to be. The other information that has been published this year since an economic and business committee last opened the budget for linking trucks is the actual examination of the use of Icelanders on these cars. You can see that when people use contacts in cars, nearly one third of travel begins with an empty battery. 29.1% of travel with a link truck starts with a battery load of less than 10%. This makes it almost straight into the gas. These are not the green transitions we should be strengthening at this point. Link trucks were good for their hat as a bridge technology, but now they're at the point where they don't need this huge appeal which more part of the Economic and Business Committee wants to maintain. And I'm just going to have to mention that I feel -- I don't know what the word is -- indiscriminate of more part of the Economic and Business Committee to leave the Carmunication Union to run the big movie when it comes to how we cross economic motivation over energy change. There's only one tiny part of the bigger picture that's going to have to work out. By keeping the ears open to the driver's tips, but not e.g. Land protection, which agrees with sound reasons for raising, e.g. The carbon charges are more than a part of the Economic and Business Committee, which is based on this opinion with the focus in a demented place. The fundamental thing about the continuation of these massive support to the link trucks, so I'll cut it down in the end, is that the more part needs to open its eyes to the supply of real clean energy cars that just run in front of domestic energy donors is always getting better. It has improved over the past year and has improved dramatically in the last two years. Even if there is only partial fossil fuels, it should not be necessary to send electric cars to the location where they are today. The coin, which most of the economic and business committees suggest in their transition to contaminated cars, would be much more useful in building wood for clean energy cars, which is what we need to achieve results in energy exchange.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u98	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. While he was talking, I thought about it when I stopped smoking some years ago. I finally stopped smoking when I started using nicotine gum. And all of a sudden, I just didn't want any more cigarettes, and I just chewed that gum all over my back, but one day I woke up and I was even more dependent on that gum than I used to, and it took me years to break it off. I may seem like me and the Icelanders are on nicotine stage in this struggle. I'd like to know what it is. A senator would agree with me. It wasn't really until I got used to nicotine gum - it was the hardest thing. There was the point of pain. I wondered if we might not have to go through a little trouble in this struggle to really get to the straight. Whether the Icelandic government is still not identified in this series of languages by some sort of semigasy, some sort of a heptapod. If we compare the operating system to a car engine, whether all the parts are working together to move in the same direction or if there are any parts in this machine that are not exactly on the tracks and are on the brakes, and they want to draw in another direction. Wait a minute. A senator's apologies for all this illustration.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u99	A respectable president. Yes, I like the illustration of nicotine gum. Access trucks serve the very purpose of getting society across the fauna to depend solely on fossil fuels, through automobiles that are partly exposed to cleaner electricity, to cars that we would like to go to where we want to go, which merely run for cleaner energy. The problem is, we can't delay this any more. A year ago, the Economic and Business Committee decided to delay this by two years from what the Minister proposed. Now the majority of the committee will contribute to an even greater delay. And in 2022 there are seven to eight years in which we should meet the Paris Treaty, of success in combating climate change. A car that will be sold under the Arctic system at the end of 2022 will still be on the street when the duration of the Paris Convention ends. So we're talking a narrow time frame. That's why I'm sorry that this incarceration was decided to be extended a year ago, but it's completely unacceptable to do it again, on the basis of the information from the Driver's Association, just so we'll rip it up, the car changers' organization, and the car sale, a direct interest center of maintaining a particular business model. The fact is, most producers are not far in the way of the electrical evaporation of their production. So I would think that within my cartel relationship, the financial interests of increasing the sales of nicotine gum were quite superior to the fact that we just stopped smoking.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u100	A respectable president. It cannot be denied that we Icelanders are somehow slaves to the great image creation and fantasy that here is the most pure society on earth, here is the air cleaner than anywhere else, nature cleaner than anywhere else, and so forth. The result of this may have been a measure of love in Icelandic society and a measure of self - righteousness and a certain hope that it will just come somehow, because it is such a pure society that this exchange will just somehow happen, which is a lot closer. That is why building up this vast network that needs to be on electrical bases has been a little lax. I'd like to ask you a second question. A senator whether he believes that it is possible for him to interfere with the present political pattern. Whether there is a possibility of visualizing some improvements in the way the present government is planned. Whether these classes are likely to represent this massive structure and attack the major action to take if we are to reach the straight path there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u101	A respectable president. I think the senator's question is easily answered simply by pointing out an example of the opposite in the past three years. The present government has raised carbon bills twice. However, the increase is lower than the rise planned in the previous government. One of the first works of the present government was to cancel the discounting of cars, which is crucial to getting close because very much of the cars that the public buys are former rental cars. That is why it is important to achieve energy exchange at the rental place in order to improve rent markets in a few years. All incentives to do so were taken out. The tenants continued to be allowed to obtain less expensive cars so that parts of their bisque model could be buying cars on discounts and then selling them and making money on top of it, renting them in the meantime. And then the administrative body contributes to an unknown amount to an increase in the number of contaminated cars. Let me guess, this could run at 720 million next year, totally out in the air. 600 million are the amount of money taken during climate surgery to cope with Covid, an investment campaign in the interest of the climate, this spring. So when it comes to pollution and stakeholders close to some of the administrative categories, there is much greater benefit than when it comes to solving the future challenges of future generations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u102	Mr. President. I'd like to go to the 2nd. about the bill available here, about the change of various laws due to budgets for 2021, to be brief first through the core points of the bill. Then I'm going to say a few words about the opinion of the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee with a special focus on the tax-important intention of linking trucks. It is possible, then, that both parts of the committee are briefly considered and then end up briefly discussing a report by the Institute of Economics, which has been very much discussed today. First, I want to start with the highest bill. For 2021 a financial minister for a bill to legalize a legal adjustment of various laws for a so-called due bandorm, as it is called. The first thing I'd like to introduce in this context is a factor known as the award of a quarter tax update. Here's a suggestion that the prices of these centenarian taxes be 2.5% between the years. It is a carbon charge, an oil tax, a general special tax for fuel, a regular and special mile tax, a car charge, and a price for alcohol and tobacco. This list shows that none of the taxpayers who have to drive their roads or transport goods and groups and companies who have to use fuel in one way or another that carries these charges. I think it would have been a ruse in the preceding year, 2021, where many companies and homes can be expected to be in trouble because of the situation caused by the Korean epidemic, that the step taken at the end of 2014 will be taken by the government of Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, where the highest standard. The current minister of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson, was also the minister of finance, that by 2015 these charges would not be subjected to what is next called an automatic rise between years. I think it would have been wise to approach that fee in that way this year. Of course, there was a perspective earlier in the discussion today in connection with the minority opinion of the 1st cut-off of the Economic and Business Committee, which is why. paritaprevir For example, the daughter of Oddný G.. His Harðardóttir signed, doubting that there would be no improvement, as in the words of the silence, but it should be kept calm. A senator thought that I misunderstood the wording of the minority opinion. I'd like to reiterate that it should have been returned with this, let this fee remain the same between the ages. However, this 2.5% increase seems to be going through, resulting in an increase in income, which means additional taxation in the state budget of 1,800 million. Mr., 1.8 billion, as assessed by the President's permission on the impact of the bill: Then the price of a quarter dollar increase (alcohol, tobacco, fuel, and automobile costs and miles) will increase the income of the state's budget by 1.8 billion dollars.◯ As a result, I assume that I do not consider it reasonable to be the year in which the approach would have been the same as was done in 2015. Next, I'd like to join a team that falls under the Dalt Fund of the Elderly, which will then connect with the next team after which is called the Operation of Nurses and the household's expense. There is a change designed to prevent the growth of the cost of domestic activities in nursing homes and nursing homes as a result of the removal of relationships with the spouse's income. Here is a set of rules, and I'm going to say it, probably it's not mean, but that's still the way it is, and that's the end of this section, pages 3.5. 10 on the bill, with President's permission: It also suggests that temporary VIIs will be extended. As a result, money must be protected from the elderly's management fund to cover the cost of nursing care for the elderly in 2021. There's a bill at the top. Secretary of finance includes this warrant. Next time, I'd like to step into my parish, and I'd like to refer to my fellow believer, please. paritaprevir Þórarinsson, the son of Thorin, accepts the charges, and I agree with their viewpoints. Team 3.8, Gjald related greenhouse gas emissions, I would like to mention specifically in the context of the KPMG revision company's report from August 1, 2020, where analysis is done at the cost of emissions. This is especially so in the light of the vague response here in the conference hall to an unprepared inquiry during the week at the highest level. The prime minister declared that all of this was very vague and that it was difficult to identify the cost of the so - called Kyoto Protocol to be handled by the Icelandic government. This is all in the past, and the EEA is conscientious in providing information on the amount of information currently being published. All of this is real. Next, I'd like to establish a specific price for the State Radio, a so-called nasal tax, which is proposed to increase in proportion to a 2.5% increase in the figures and nose taxes. In context, I would like to remind us of our ideas in the Middle Ages that part of the bill, part of the radio bill that is called above, will be published in a way that individuals will be given the freedom to take part of it into the rest of the media, only on the annual tax report. This could have a major impact on the management status of the local media, resulting in much more freedom than this damaged bill as the highest source. The Minister of Education has now submitted again in connection with the support of the private media. I think it should be watched in the context of simplifying that system, supporting the private media, as soon as the U.S. TV business is revised, with a view to trying to survive with modest amounts of money as so far as it has been done, at least Last year and years. I'd like to make a special impression on the genetic tax that has been discussed today. I want to celebrate what's suggested there, even though I think this is going to work out too short. This is a step in the right direction, but the genetic tax has the most unfair tax on our system. I think I'm right about that in the United States it's called the death tax. Of course, it is taxing on the property of the deceased who has paid a total tax of all the income used to build up the valuables that are then committed to the recipient. I think we should look for a rule plan so that either there will be a very moderate tax on an inheritance like this or just what I think would be reasonable, to eliminate it completely. This is by far the most modest amount, but it is not everything in a prince's hand. In the early stages, all the income that is on the outside has been taxed, so in the prince's hand the total amount is not important. It's an unfair tax, it's an unjust tax, and we should resolve to bring it down, in general, to a considerable extent and to put it all to rest. I think it's a good decision, and I'm sure it's possible to get together at the High Council. That's what I wanted to say about the bill itself. Next up, I'm going to go to a scene in the majority of the economic and business committees as well. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason spoke at the beginning of the discussion. There's a point that has to do with the tax attraction of a link car, which says 39. g., and the demolition of the value tax on re-selling eco-friendly vehicles. I welcome both of these points, but I would also like to say that there is not more articles to distribute as a result of lowering the government tax in a committee's list of parts. This is a tax innuendo of connected trucks, and I think it's a good and decomposition of merit taxation to re-selling eco-friendly vehicles as well. What's worse about this, of course, is that the system we should be trying to simplify every day. In this context, I would like to remind you that there is still a wait for government outcast, which I believe is most likely to be at the highest level. The secretary of transportation Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson will lead, although it may come from the highest level as well. For example, the secretary of financial affairs of Bjarni son of Benediktsson, the government's application of future payoffs on driving and motor vehicles. There are countless times here in the Hall that the importance of government preparation has been discussed, has already set the lines for what takes place when the proportion of eco-friendly vehicles is increased, and the tax from fuel and oil costs are lowered. A Senate hearing announces that these events are coming in such a way that they can be reasoned and able to handle the approach that will be presented there, but still nothing will do about it. I just want to encourage the government, chief. Secretary of transportation and the highest. Secretary of finance, to show the cards in this regard, this is of utmost importance when it comes to assessing the overall impact of routine changes on drivers, who drive and vehicles as a whole. So I want to keep this up, and again, if this is to be kept much longer, it is obvious that the government does not trust in the project, she does not rely on a common view of how driving and driving will be done in the future. This is a case that has been flaunted countless times in this pontta that it is necessary to go to the first, and the need is to become quite screaming. I'd like to briefly enter two existing committee views from the 1st smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee, as a matter of course. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir signing, and 2nd, largely less part of the Economic and Business Committee. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson is signing. In both of these views, the carbon bill is inserted. I would like to maintain that the carbon bill, which will be in accordance with this bill of 6.1 billion in 2021, if I recall correctly, was 3.5 billion when it was originally introduced. It is crazy to stay here and increase the rate of taxation, which, first of all, suggests very little evidence to be reasonable above the head, but second, it seems to be aware that it does not have the desired effect. There is no environmental objective to be achieved by this, the aim that is underlying to reduce fossil fuels, but it seems to be just a clean additional tax that will eventually affect the home of this country, either directly or directly through the higher costs and higher costs of companies, which are then involved in business again. According to this, I would like to briefly review a report that has been somewhat discussed in connection with the carbon account, since it has developed many times during the discussion. I want to thank you. Haraldsdóttir I would sit down and read it. Happily, this is not the longest report of the National Institute of Economics, so it was relatively quick to pass through. I'd like to introduce a few things, and one of the first things first is the results of foreign research on the effects of carbon taxes introduced in this report. Hv. In particular, the Parliaments Bryndís Haraldsdóttir and Smári Mccarthy had a significant connotation that the report prepared the view that carbon charges need to be raised. First of all, the assessment of results from foreign studies on the effects of carbon taxes. In 2018, scholar Erik Haites, I hope that I have the names correctly expressed, combined with the effects of carbon tax in countries in Europe and Asia, as well as Canada. His results are, so I'll intervene briefly, by permission of a president: ▪ In fact, it seemed that tax emissions were reduced to no more than tax emissions. In other words, there is a greater reduction in taxes that the carbon account does not involve, but in those it embraces. As of 2018, Kelly De Bruin and Akkat Aykut Mert Yakut a study on the effects of carbon tax in Ireland and concluded that the use of fuel in Ireland would not have been altered by carbon tax. On the subject of the 2011 study Ueta Lee, Hector Pollitt, and Kazuhiro Uta, the proposed effect of carbon bills in Japan, on: ▪ These data indicated that the proposed carbon taxes in Japan would not have a major impact on emissions or economics. This should be sufficient to frame it well enough that all this talk of the importance of the carbon account in order to influence individual and corporate consumption is based on a very weak foundation, in order to be spoken of as mild. Then, by permission of a president, the Economic Institute on the Impact of the Cost, is specifically stated: ▪ If tax returns are not taken into account, most people conclude that land production and employment are reduced after a carbon charge is imposed. The rate of life of low - paying people is more affected by taxation than by others. It's absolutely amazing to hear here what's sometimes called the Conspiracies, representatives of the United States, Revolutions, Pirata, and Coalitions. paritaprevir The spirit of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir, a member of the Independence Party, speaks of the need only if something is being added. To some extent, I understand the source of these groups, but I'm quite discouraged from understanding where it came from. paritaprevir Bryndís Haraldsdóttir makes such a point. To conclude this report from the Institute of Economics, I'd like to quote it again, with the permission of a president, which says: In the overall sense, when prices increase, carbon costs have not so far had a major impact on people's consumption [...], it can be assumed that people are reluctant to change their consumption of fuel. Because of this, carbon costs have not resulted in a significant reduction in emissions. Then, at the end of the report, the Economic Institute reiterates with the permission of the president: The consumption and interest of food costs in poor homes are more pronounced than in others, and the effect is also strong in single individuals. I hope that some members of the council who have spent today's disaster tax system are listening to what I was reading because I give myself the highest reference to this report earlier than today, not read it, but picked out a single sentence on a pole here and where the language was thrown away. We're supposed to cancel this tax. We're supposed to cut off carbon bills and leave this little 6 billion in the pocket of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u103	V.E.G. President. I explain my comments to this case, which has been discussed in the Economic and Business Committee. I decided to do it orally in a speech rather than in writing, which is the first of at least Three that go by the name of the bandworm. We've got one that we're talking about here, we've started dealing with the bandorm two, and it's at least two. I'm expecting unit three. I hope this isn't going to be like the movies, that number 1 is usually the best, but it'll gradually get better as time goes on. The majority of the committee contributes a number of adjustments and is reason to welcome them most, if not all. Under the leadership of Coyote. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kálálsson has been working on the issues involved in the response to the Covid epidemic. Once more frequently, such adjustments have been made to a committee, and under the leadership of the Chairman, the committee has made adjustments that are beneficial. However, it is inevitable to criticize this bill because of its main concept. It is primarily a matter of continuing taxes and repercussions in the public and in this epidemic. To be honest, I did not expect the government to recommend it in this situation, but there they keep their lines in place for a new year by the government riding on the line and starting the new year, right on January 1, by raising their fees and other curses for the public. This is a policy that we decided to disappear at our time, six, seven years ago, and it was important that the state did not have the authority to promote prices and inflation in a new year and, of course, increases in the prices of house and company loans. We started with what was going to be the new season of 2014/2015. But that, like so many other things, has returned to the same old condition since the system had taken over again. Therefore, we are now looking forward to the government's raising the various costs for the public and the business in the country, even in a situation where people are very alert to defend themselves because of the effects of a pandemic. This is happening in a country that has one of the world's highest taxes. So let's not forget in this context that the taxes in Iceland are with the highest in the world if we take a pension fund with, which is normal because in most places they are part of public taxation. When they're taken in, Iceland is taxation with what happens to everyone in the world. In spite of this, governments continue to invent new fees, new sentences, and in the spirit of today's image politics, the labels, or what they want to call it, are always given names that are designed to make them sound good. It is made to sound as if the taxpayers almost paid off that new spells are imposed on them and are called green charges. One of these green fees is the carbon tax, which is now raising one more trip. This is essentially a type of nose tax, since everyone has to get on his way and, regardless of income, needs to use energy. Because of the worst response to income groups, as noted in a report by Iceland's Economic Institutes, quoted earlier by members of the Parliament. I agree with what. paritaprevir Bergthir Ólason, who spoke before me, is a reason for all members of the council to study the contents of this report. But what is the effect? What have been the effects of these increases? The report certainly gives us indications of this, not just in view of circumstances in Iceland, but also in other countries. The effect has been little or none, and even since such taxes have not been imposed, as noted in a previous talk, the effect has been greater than in places where they are taxing, so we see in our hand that every time there is a disturbance in the Middle East and there is an increase in gas or oil prices, people drive nothing less. They simply have to pay more to get to their destination. Here, governments are adding another price and raising it to people who need to reach their destination. The tents are now many for special and general fees, and may be attributed in a long case, but they continue to be added and found new fees. That is why the reason for rejoicing is. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's supply of changes in the carbon price. That's a very moderate suggestion for a what? A senator and reason to support her. I hope that members of Congress do what most people, preferably all, because under these circumstances there are increased budgets and further increases in newly invented taxes the last thing the public in Iceland needs. It is also a tax that affects the country in particular. It was only discussed earlier in the area beyond the capital area, especially since the capital area allows people to travel on small cars, even on electric cars, on short trips. However, the population in the country must always travel longer and on reliable cars that get them through a lot of rough weather and frequent, up and down and down. In fact, this is one of those local taxes that we have seen being added, one by one, one by one, last loss, and this is, of course, a consumer control. In fact, that is what the government recognizes. Hv. The members of the Independence Party admit that this is a consumer control, something that was considered inappropriate for people in that town, so I don't take deeper in the years, back here in the past. Hv. The head of the Economic and Business Committee Óli Kárason Kjálson added in this discussion that this was a consumer management which would be able to protect domestic production and increase demand for domestic energy at the expense of foreign energy. It's interesting to hear that approach, and hopefully, if it's really that the government thinks it's desirable, then we, for example, shall. to protect domestic production at foreign expense. The situation, however, is that there are limits to how much we can use the domestic energy in some areas so far. We still have to rely on imported energy, Mr. President, at least until we start pumping oil and especially gas in the Dragon Zone. It's interesting that the government's shut down the whole thing. It would be a source of domestic energy that could reduce greenhouse gas emissions by increasing production of environmental gas. But that's another story. Even now, we need to rely on a certain degree on energy import. In particular, the provision of the work done by income - rich groups and citizens of the land is being paid for. In fact, these green taxes have fallen for it, and we hear a reason. In the 20th century, when more and more people, larger and larger groups, more people, were given the opportunity to enjoy what was in common with technology, to enjoy a better life span, e.g. The opportunity to own and run a car, to get on its way in a family car. This is a setback, and it takes the less money that no longer has, according to this, to have the right to drive a family car, to own a car, and to enjoy a better lifestyle. This is the result of the imaginary politics. In the United Kingdom, net greenhouse gas emissions in 2050 are being targetized, and this has been described as one of the most ambitious schemes in the world. Our government says that it is planning that net emissions will be 0 in 2040 and it may be said that Iceland has a advantage over Britain in this regard. But last year the then secretary of finance, Philip Hammond, saw a reason to send a message to the prime minister and to the government to point out that this goal was to be reached, net emissions of 0 by 2050, would cost British society one trillion pounds. That's 173,000 billion. Should the current window be displayed in the current window. The minister pointed out that it would inevitably mean that there would be a cut - off operation in schools, hospitals, police, and other areas where the State is setting aside its limited budget. This is not a minister who is particularly opposed to environmental action, on the contrary, is the Minister who, in my opinion, had accepted, at least, an exhilarating approach to image politics, but he saw a reason to point out this point and the fact that several Britain's professions would remain competitive, such as large industry and agriculture. At least, at least you'd need to be forbidden. from 2050 all the transports spent using fossil fuels continued to be counted. To set this amount in context, a respectable president, it is a hundred million pounds that a million pounds a day could be spent on the more than 3,000 years for that amount or, if we look at the date frame that is put to the core, 30 years, 100 million pounds a day for the various social projects that await release. Now, the most interesting of all of this has to do with what we're talking about here. Recently, Britain has taken 50 percent of greenhouse gas emissions since 1990. I think it's reduced by 42%, if I remember correctly, i.e. if we look at the release that is registered in Britain. But what has happened? The product has been exported, moved to China, and other countries where production is much less environmental than in the United Kingdom. Added to the transport of large black - oiled ships to Britain. In view of the consumption in Britain, emissions have virtually not been reduced since 1990; they have only been moved elsewhere. Is this the policy we want to introduce here in Iceland, to import the production from here, where it will take place in some of the most environmentally friendly ways available in the world, to countries that use coal burns to produce energy and then to move back to Iceland, thus increasing greenhouse gas emissions? Although governments can so boast in some reports that they have reduced the emissions reported in Iceland, the production, whether agriculture, industry, or other, has been moved to other countries where it releases more greenhouse gases. This is what you can read from the current government policy, to punish people and companies for using energy in your country to transport or to produce goods and thus reduce production here and to reduce jobs - they are necessary - and are moving these jobs and this production to other countries where emissions are greater. And because of what? paritaprevir At this point, the director of Bryndís's Haraldsdóttir asked, "What is the direction of the Central Party in these matters? " A senator to watch my speech at the First National Assembly of the Central Party, which had almost nothing to do with the environment and greenhouse gas emissions. There I pointed to better ways to be successful in this area, ways based on science, knowledge, and common sense, which, unfortunately, are far too small on this one of the principal forms of the ideal politics. The British might choose to plant a trillion trees, actually much more - it takes less than one pound to plant a tree - if they could find room for it. They could plant a million trees and achieve far more environmental success than is the policy of reducing the production and number of jobs in their country. Hv. paritaprevir After listening to the council members of the Central Party, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson asked: Is emissions desirable? The release of carbon dioxide is not just desirable, it is necessary. It is vital for life on earth. It is as essential to trees as plants are to me at Christmas, even more necessary. But this needs to be adjusted, it needs to be balanced, and we will not be balanced unless we allow ourselves to approach the matter out of reason and facts rather than today's fanciful political routine. Because I have a few seconds left, Mr. President, I'd only like to mention it as a few years away. Senators have entered the past conversation, i.e. about the church. It seems to me that a special effort is needed to enable the Church to protect and repair church buildings around the country and that the parish will not solve that. Its cultural value is highly damaged. I also agree with those who have pointed out the need to consider that the most unfair taxes, i.e. bicycling, even multiple taxation, which is manifest in many areas. The committee has had some discussions with them and wants to fog them, I think most of them, in the right direction. Much more is needed to come. After bandorm one, wait at least A tapeworm, two and three. I want to use this opportunity to express my hope that there will be opportunities to meet more groups, address other problems that are still unsolved by the epidemic, and the economic conditions it has created. I hope that the committee will apply itself to that subject and will add to what the government has brought to us in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u104	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir For extensive discourses in many parts of Sigmundur's ministry, Gunnlaugsson Davíð sailed. I'd especially like to agree with what he said at the end, that hopefully we'll give the council, and especially the Senate committees a chance to handle the government's proposals better. Though well meant, they're not entirely in touch with reality, and we often see it. We can even see it. for indications from small companies, small family companies in the country that have been involved in tourism. We see a monotonous and small firm here in the capital area complaining about the same fact, that the government's actions against these groups are not in line with reality. It's like a little font, superseding the large font, the big picture, and I don't think it's that good. I want to be especially encouraged. The senator's handling of these suggestions can help these small companies. Hv. A senator brought in a lot of things and some things I really agree with, but the rest of it is just a huge disagreement. It's a pleasant time at the council that we can stay here and discuss certain aspects of the subject. I'd like to get out for a minute because I think I may have missed it, just a short one, that's a secondary question and a secondary question - the Central Party's position on the increase in alcohol costs. I may only have missed whether the Central Party joins us in responsibly to wait this year with the annulls offered on the part of the government, especially because of major business practices in the food business. I see the time for the first answer has passed. I will come to an environment in later times against me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u105	Madam President. I believe that there is an increase in alcohol consumption, which others pay in this situation, may not be the least of which is due because it is somewhat heavy on the restaurant industry as it is. A senator mentions. One of the factors considered when Iceland is viewed as a tourist country worth drinking at restaurants. As in other matters, I certainly believe that there is reason to wait for that to rise. A few of them. During this discussion, members of the Parliament have noted that this is not one of the main priorities of those working in the food trade sector, which is absolutely correct. The story needs to be followed by the fact that these parties have pointed out that this would help. They simply point out that more is needed, larger measures are needed to help this work area get through difficult situations that particularly affect the tourism and the food sector. It is distributed in other articles. We'll see, for example. The impact on agriculture is that restaurants are shut down. The approach is also lacking, in my opinion, an increased sense of reason. I think it would be better for restaurants, who don't know if they can be open tomorrow and may, for example, open up. Just take ten people, get a clear message that they must close and receive support accordingly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u106	Madam President. I think that's exactly what this is part of being in politics. When you're a minister, no answer, just like yes is an answer. This hm and hah and inexplicability is something that is particularly damaging to an SME in the current situation. I think we can jointly encourage the government to speak simply clearly and to handle the exact problem that we face, especially for travel. Everything's really under control now. It's all below the next few weeks and months, and then we have to have measures that deal exactly with the enormous problems of professional life. At the same time, this affects homes. We disagree very much about the environment, and it can't be checked in one minute. It is a course of restoration, and we can see for ourselves that city dwellers. It is the basic princely act, and there are various factors to consider. But that's the basic approach. We believe that carbon costs are very important. I could see that. A senator said here - and we can agree on whether the price should be raised or not - so that it is not talking about a down payment on the price, that it is not talking about laying off the carbon tax. That is why I want to ask him: " What does he see going on? If he sees it taking action related to climate and environment, such as. The recovery of wetlands, forestry, or agricultural innovation directly linked to environmental and climate? I'd appreciate it if I could get an explanation for what he sees in the carbon bill. We agree that the price will be raised with the aim of highlighting our focus on climate. Our commitments are great. We want to respect our international commitments that we Icelanders have undergone. All right, we may not be getting into this argument, but I'd like to know where the Central Party policy is about where the carbon bill is going. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u107	Madam President. It is true that we have not suggested that the amount of carbon worth should be taken down immediately, an evil integrity may be said, but we want to show the moderation we already know and therefore suggest that it be taken in steps and considered. This is a new additional tax, which seems to be of little value. And what should this go into? Yes, it's going to be in the state box, just like the budget is being held today. I think it's a bad idea. A senator's reputation for land healing or forest development is much as good as a farm plan. To be more supportive of Icelandic agriculture is just one of the best things we can do in environmental and climate matters. On the other hand, I don't like putting it in a shovel, which is a very faulty way of dealing with climate issues and, in my opinion, involving vandalism. While this price is laid, I naturally feel that, at the same time, it is intended to increase land supply and forestry and to provide additional support to agriculture, although support for agriculture or forestry should not be dependent on this price. I know why. A senator does not have the opportunity to come back in response, so I'm not going to criticize direction at any time. A senator like me understands her. But I'm worried about these vague payments in some kind of climate crisis that no one seems to be able to explain what will happen, and you're afraid simply to contribute to the production of the countries where it takes place in an environmental way and reduce it at places such as Iceland, where we produce products in almost as environmentally appropriate as possible in the world today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u108	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a bill about a change in various laws because of budgeting for 2021. The discussion has been very good. There are some things about these songs to look into. Let's start with a genetic tax. The bill suggests that the tax cutoffs of the fiscal product increase from 1.5 billion. K. 5 million. K. It would not be bad for something to reduce this dead tax, as has been called, where money has been taxed before. The passage from 1.5 million to 5 million in English basically means that those in the remuneration market, and that they are in no way linked to the government's Pentateuch, enjoy it. Sadly, as the situation exists today, this is not an option for those who receive pensions from the State Department. Of course, it is absolutely absurd that we still have such dreary rules in our society that those most in need of extra money are the last ones to receive it. It's just that there's always room for their chances of getting something out of the system other than the misery and the signal to tighten the air. I don't understand the lost state of government. You always think people got lost in this fog, but I'm convinced that they didn't. They deliberately and deliberately went in there, and then they were surrounded by more and more fog, so that they could not see for themselves and therefore can excuse the way older people treat older people and sick people. Also, in this context, it is quite surprising that these enormous reductions in the government insurance agency are up to 45% in senior citizens and 38% in micro-germs, plus taxes in general. But that's a tax policy. It is indistinguishable that those who are living in pensions from a insurance institution are not in there and could take advantage of such funds. We cannot imagine how irreverent, destructive, and violent this system is. If someone wanted to strengthen an invalid who didn't have a knife and spoon, it would be bad if he couldn't survive the month, and someone would want to strengthen him and think, " I'm going to help this person, I'm going to give him a hundred thousand bucks." every month through the year. But you can't. That would be at least To do so illegally, to give money to the individual, not officially, so that it would not be reported by the tax or by transfering it into his account in any other way. This amount would impair the individual's rights from a insurance agency. It is as if this system is based on economic violence. I can't figure out why we've built such a system, and not just that, but that we've been maintaining it and adding it and doing it more inhumanly than it is. It's a lot of research. There's a lot of things about this system to look into. We've got 980 charge up here. in 20 years and above to 1,080, it's put in here. But at the same time that this is being done, the most remarkable thing in all of this, is keeping the unchanged market for micromotives, which is 109,000 k. per month. This vacation market has been unchanged for years. It has been shown that if this vacation target were updated today, it would not be under 200,000 k. But at the same time when you look over this, the charges are being raised here and there. In fact, there is an increase in the price of the U.S. Radio of 17,900 K. of 18300. But this is specifically stated in the bill, saying under permission of the president: It is assumed that in 2021, the sum of the non-employment markets due to the industry of microenergy pensioners is calculated to be unchanged. Free income is now 1,315.200. every year equivalent to 109,600 k. ombitasvir/paritaprevir/rito This incomprehensible phenomenon and the government to the shame of being unable to even lift those people who are trying to win. If this were true, these individuals would be getting 100,000 bucks. More and more, they would pay taxes. But after taxing and cutting it down, it's no money, it's just a cost. It is always forgotten to include those who are trying to work, the cost of getting to and from work. We must stop this violence. Let us realize that it is as if the government does not want people to be rescued. Yet, it is always talking about creating some level of working ability that conflicts with everything. If someone wanted to do so, it would be good for the vacation market to encourage everyone to go to work. It is the right thing to do rather than force people to remain trapped in a system that always punishes forever. There's also another thing in this that shows how ridiculous this system is, but it's a combination of disability and social security and pension funds. Here again is something that needs to be replaced every year. With President's permission, just to show how ridiculous this system is, I'm going to read the words correctly from this: ▪ When comparing total revenues before and after energy loss to pension funds, including to cover social security, which has often resulted in the reduction or even collapse of the pay made up of microsurgents from pensioners. With that loss of income, the same individuals gain increased rights within the social security system, which, in turn, results in further reductions from the pension fund on the next comparison followed by nod. Involvement of social insurance and pension payments can, therefore, lead to frequent changes in biofuels and permanent insecurity to biofuels, which have led mainly to poor energy pensioners. Who wrote this? How could this be negotiated? I'd say, a respectable president, that the one they do needs therapy or help to keep text like this year after year and get special authority to agree with this year after year. There's something really weird about the way we act in this system, that there's something over your head to this. You're going to be completely speechless that this is how people are treated. We must also understand what is being done on another trip. The rise to microenergy and sensibilities will be 3.6% at the next year, but the trend in pay will be 7%. The reason, as it has been noted, is that these 7% are not given to social security workers, as is stated in the 69ndret. Social security law, it's supposed to be paid for. They just make some form of pay bag, try to subtract it; then come all kinds of excuses, and with these amazing tricks, they keep the person in about 9,000 bucks. an increase according to biography agreement should be at least $15,000,16,000. minimum. This isn't just done right now. This is done year after year. Then you also ask yourself: " Why can there be many fees and other things but can never be raised correctly so that they can have the right elevation, even if only for a year? But it tells itself that it is not part of the problem, as it is in the past few decades. From 1988, at the beginning of a trade and a personal discount, it worked at least, then it wasn't the taxes. Then there was 30% of the government's money cut into a pension fund, and that's what the system was supposed to be. Today, however, not only are we paying taxes of poverty but we are in very poor condition, and it does not seem that we are going to change that arrangement in any way. We can see that there is no huge difference between a person and a person whether to live at 220,000 bucks. 2,29,000 k. There are many people terrified out there because they had already declared that they should get $50,000. tax and demeaning, and then we talked about December 18th, but now it's gone. It does not seem definitely that it will be paid at the time. I sincerely hope that this government will now begin to dress properly and see to it that these people will be helped. But there is another interesting in this, which is not in this bill. There's an increase in senior population. It's just this 3.6% increase, it's not a Christmas bonus or anything else, there's no tax-free remuneration to them. It is as if these older citizens were not to be able to give Christmas gifts to children or grandchildren or, worst of all, just to celebrate a decent Christmas. However, they receive Christmas gift from the government that it seems to be supposed to increase the cost, the operating cost of nurses, and the cost of domestics is in there. They make sure that they collect money from the elderly in order to get it to a nurse's operating expenses, which is ridiculous and should not be. It tells us that while they're doing this, nursing homes become more difficult, and there's a lot of money to build a nursing home, and this coin was never thought of that way. It seems that any currency from older citizens and microplies can be justified, not back. Finally, it is the so - called carbon tax. I have to say, as it is, all such fees involving contaminant taxes and other measures are most intense on those in particular. I feel that in the presence of such expenditures, the progress of those who have the worst increased in the same proportion is expected to be just as well left behind. Of course, that cannot be done. It tells itself that among those who have remembered and are remembered, each dollar is less than a dollar's worth. It's kind of sad how it is treated to social security people. I took the inheritance tax from here in the first place. I have to say, just as it is, it sucks to know that people must not even inherit 1.5 million, they weren't available, not those at the insurance agency, much less the 5 million they're putting in right now. We have to figure out that if we take a 40% cut of 5 million, we're talking about 2 million, that means that a year later, all the benefits of that pensioner are being taken away. At the same time, however, high - paying people, such as those with members of Congress, may inherit 5 million and there is no tax. We can just keep it, do what we want. Those who are good at the insurance system and who are careful not to be at the state insurance company, because they already know they don't get anything, they can inherit 5 million, and they don't have to think about it, they just have to have it. But those most in need of such an inheritance, let's punish them. I'm just saying, how can you create this system? How can you maintain this system and what's wrong with the souls of those who can come here year after year, government by government, and say, "We're going to maintain this system." We're going to extend this combination of disability and pension one more year. We're going to do this, and we're going to raise everything, all dues to government funds. We're going to go up here and raise it, but we're not going to raise the cost market for microfowl. We are not going to improve their benefits. We're not gonna give them this rise, we're gonna give them half less. This is a completely ridiculous system and all those who built it up to high shame, and to the more embarrassing ones who maintain this system, year after year, for the sole purpose of causing people such financial harm that they must harden their necks, that they must save but cannot, for a large group has been saving far beyond what he can and cannot do more.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u109	President. All I want to do is enter this awesome system as hell. A senator will always be so careful when he arrives on a speaker's chair. At this morning's hearing, members of the Department of Social Affairs were discussing the complexity of the system and the need to change it. It also discussed that it is the Ministry of Economics that calculates everything because of the law, not the Social Services that is responsible for the law. That's very interesting. They do not even calculate all of this and do not have access or a basis to calculate the impact of laws, which makes them have no idea how this will work and what it does. We even asked.: What do the centenarians mean as in the biography agreements? It's just really complicated because, in turn, the damages all over the place. You just sit there and ask, "Why isn't anything fixed?" That's a very important question like that. A senator crossed. It makes me want to think only about how this should really be as simple as possible. Are we not talking about the lack of an definition of a fundamental development? Regarding disability, we are talking about discrepancies, costs, and basics. Does the system need to be something far more complex than that?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u110	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson's request for the inquiry. This is exactly the fact. It tells us all that he's at a meeting of the budget committee and that they say, " There's nothing to pay for into the system. And you know why? That doesn't mean anything because of what might be the scariest, that if you put $10,000 into the system somewhere, you have no idea how it works. And the most important thing about this is that this 10,000 call in the system today may prove to be some 15,000 dollars. loss. That we should have a system like this, that we should have kept it and that we should just be discussing it here over our heads is senseless foolishness. But for some reason, it's like this. When I first arrived at a council, I was completely convinced, thinking, " This must be a mistake. ' But I've come to realize that this is not a mistake. It's deliberate and deliberate. They know they can put money into the system, but they also know that they'll get it all back. Of course, it's just violence because they know exactly what they're doing in this system. Now they've got the great excuse that they don't mean putting anything into the system because it's all gone. It's their system, and, of course, it has to be reset. We need to find the right way to do things. We need to have taxes and impairments in view of the right way. Those who land, for example. in accidents or accidents or things and falls off the job market and other things, we have nothing to start cutting one or no one until it is at least in the right way and up to the minimum wage, which, of course, is to be right so that people can live decently with it. Only then could we start talking about taxes and failings if we had a healthy, normal system, as we should be involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u111	Madam President. The minimal advance, the core growth, the minimum wage, and all that there must always be about what people have between their hands after taxes and insurgents. It doesn't matter if they're tax and reduce what they get, as long as the rest remains is at least Enough to live up to and up to and including adequate profits, I would always like to say, as is everywhere else for anyone else who does something about money. Of course, that is also true. What else was discussed at this fundraiser and is very interesting - I've been trying to follow it for quite a while - is the explanation of why they're doing 69.g. Social security is what it is. A key element in this law on how this amount increases from year to year is to look to pay for it. Remuneration does not exist as a technical term. The government agent of the Generals has, for example. magazine on the fact that it is very undefined, and it can only be made up who it is, like a whale. A senator entered his talk. However, what is highly technical is the index of consumer prices. There's something on the tight side. This amount should be updated annually taking into account the salary development process. This is a password of over 40 years, but according to a legal outback system, the amount of money should not be updated more than once a year. They don't get anything back again, they don't talk about it. It is forgotten, however, that the amount of at least not to be lower than the index of consumer prices. It's been quite a few years that the increase in social security law has been lower than the indicator since then. She too was not followed. True, this trend has taken place around the time of the year. 39% above the index price of consumption over all these years. It has, therefore, been corrected, sometimes after a long time. [[The president calls.]] After this, we have a 39% rise in two decades, perhaps a decade in the 70% increase in the general labour market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u112	A respectable president. This is the fact when a person is asking for an explanation in this system. I think it would have been right to pray for an explanation because it might have given more and better answers. And what often forgets about this and shows how brilliantly wrong this system is that it is not enough to be impaired in the social security system itself but also goes over to the social system in rural society, such as in the special housing. It's all grown up now. The best example showing how wrong the system is is the reduction from a dollar to a dollar to 65 bucks, against a dollar and how it affected. It just shows that having it this way never works. It'll never work. We must find some basis. We at The Gang of the People gave a bill about 350,000 bucks, tax-free. It is this way based on information about how this system was thought and was in the beginning. As a result, I would say it would be great if we could start there. That would make a difference for people. We are, in effect, obliged to reset this system, just say, " We take out this butt-scraped monster of ours and create a humanable system, one, two and three. ' In fact, we were there for a year, but it would just take us out. It would show us black in white all these billions that are being removed from the system today as well as how they have made billions of dollars in return to a dollar and many other things they have done, e.g. Just this government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u113	Madam President. The first tape worm here for discussion, and I've understood that they will be two or three, in itself, is not bold to see. He's kind of old-fashioned. But I wanted to review a few things on this bill, on the other hand, things that I can accept as an improvement and a failure. And maybe the third thing that's not to be found here, but should be here. First, you have to go over the fact that there is still what is called an increase in petals. The next year, the state's budget is to be paid 1.8 billion, but it will, of course, cost the population a lot more than 1.8 billion because of raising 2.5% now, as it has been done most of the years, to the exception of two or three years ago when the government was under the leadership of God's people. paritaprevir The Sigmurs of Gunnlaugsson Gunollon, is not a political decision. It's a systematic decision. And some financial writer encourages Enter and calculates these increases in Excel. It is, however, a political decision, Mrs. President, to cancel this decision. But the present government is not original, it is not bold, so it is not interested in breaking down a piece of paper and abandoning it. There's another thing about these so - called automatic increases, it gives all selling goods and services in Iceland a set of opportunities to raise their services by the same dollar without specifically realizing why they are doing it, and they can quote this document we're working on. Since we're talking about sale of goods and services, it's only natural that in some ways a new product has been raised recently, in some respects, by lowering a crown. But in other respects, it is said that it is because of the increase in pay. When I go to the supermarket, where I usually shop there myself. I don't think they've been paid up on self-imbursement. On the contrary, they gave up their own expensive product more than they bought on the day before and in the month before. So the example the state sets here is by raising 2.5% of the annual fees, rather than walking ahead by example, telling all selling goods and services: The Kingdom is going to keep these joints unchanged. When these 1800 million people here sound like nickels compared to what needs to be put out now because of what the situation is - and that may also be because this is not the time to give up a ball to all business people in Iceland, they are free to increase products and services by 2.5% in line with what the State is doing. I don't like that. I would have wanted the government to have the courage or primacy needed to turn this over once. Here, too, it is assumed that a special price for State Radio will be raised by a few hundred dollars, something people may remember about. That's 180 million. K. But as it is known, the State Radio is Ohf. not under the direct invitation of the Generals and not the executives, there is no one who can set the State Radio economy requirements except the administration of the company. That's why it's not a bad idea for people to resort to the right business of money instead of expecting state radio to run out of business like other people - can I say state business? The position of this company is very vague. These include the highest responses. Education Minister that it is not possible to answer whether or not the employees of this company have the wisdom and rights of public employees. It would be worth one Mass for the highest. A minister of education to investigate it so that it can be explained in a general way. What may be said is that this bill is good or good, for example. to increase the taxation limit of the fiscal tax. For example, credit is now one of the taxes that you consider to be the most repugnant. The idea of taxing on people over grave and death is unpleasant because it is usually just one person's life savings, in a few cases some other, where taxes have been paid from the income that made this property. They've paid property taxes from the same property. But it cannot be released as soon as it is divided between the survivors, it must only be left out there. This tax would normally be the best thing to do in the ocean. In addition, there are improvements to the level of parish costs, but attendances in Iceland are a very large number of financial resources. But then it is being used now, because the church has been successful, expanding its parishes, and increasing the number of churches, as each priest disfellowshipped. In itself, this is a cutting down in the ministry for parishioners, not having access to a priest's service as it has been. But that's another story. However, there is another thing that I feel is completely missing from this document, Madam President, on the state's income gain. It seems that there is a measure of inadequacy in the current government, and even lack of interest in collecting fees, right-endumed fees, and when charged with charges. It's like there's some sort of difficulty in it. We've seen examples of this lately, since customs of imported agricultural products do not seem to have been in any way consistent with the existing import, which is very growing. In itself, this is a threefold offense; it is a violation against a government fund, which will result from income. This is a violation of farmers who will be made from incomes otherwise, if they had produced this product within the country. Third, this is a offense against consumers, because the product that has been brought wrong-toll marked into Iceland. It cannot be seen that the advantages that may have been derived from this import have been returned to consumer products. If there is a problem with a pot broken, it should be noted that for the last month, in October, it was the case with the so - called plant cheese, which has been imported to 30 tons and 50 tons of to every month throughout this year to Iceland, that at the time of its import and toll treatment, the import of the product has nearly been investigated. It was imported two tons last October. There are two indications: Either radical consumption change, change in national consumption in one month, or the product that has been introduced and brought in here for months and years, has been introduced into the wrong toll number, which has resulted in the loss of income and consumers taking a small part from the table, except for natural farmers who lose their farms. It's that inadequacy that I find completely incomprehensible. The middle party has moved three times, I believe, on the 2nd. The budget of the past few years' proposals that customs will be tightened. It seems that there are no or few representatives of the system that you meet are aware of what customs control is. Toll watch is not a man down at the Cheflavour Airport opening suitcases. Tolls are to follow the fact that products brought to the country, whoever they are, whether they are parts, agricultural products, or whatever they are, are transferred to the tax numbers that are to be used and to buy, are properly implemented for the sake of government funds. I don't know how many times the person standing here has had a discussion with the highest level. Secretary of finance on these matters. It seems to be at the highest. The secretary of finance is not very interested in collecting financial expenses, i.e. Expenditures on administration schedule. We're not talking about a new tax system, Madam President, so it's quite ready. Rather, we collect when properly under pressure. What has resulted from this? Yes, unfortunately, these companies are going to go to a level and become bankrupt, and the government fund is stuck with the loss in all cases. There's no surveillance, and it's perfectly clear that there's no manpower in there. This has repeatedly been pointed out in recent years, and we have been left out of people's minds. And, by the way, Mrs. President, these are not expenses that are unsettled or similar because they become a government fund for spending money, on the contrary, they are set up to collect improvements in the state funds. Of course, we live in a changed world, considering what we did a flat year ago. But I can't remember any better than the last time I asked the highest one. The secretary of finance to what was thought to be the amount of money in the so - called black economy that would not be paid due fees for state funds - a number of inquiries were needed to get an answer - was the answer at 80 billion times. It has also been pointed out in recent years, including Of the people here, that in the case of hibernation, there was one fragrance called in the daily conversation of airbb - although I would not speak English here in this pontu, President, I do not remember this being Icelandic - that it appeared by the day, after the examination of an tax investigator, that in this field alone there had been an under count of the income of 23 billion in recent years, 23 billion. I'm not sure that much of the resulting fees are collected in the present situation. But there will be spring again in the valley, and there will be tourists here again, hopefully, and then we, Madam President, need to be prepared to have a serious check on the activity then being done. And not only should we hunt men with some relic, but also because of that we should not forget that those who refrain from paying dues and rights are also infringinging the competitive position with those who run honest companies. So I continue to talk about the tourist business, although he is now in hibernation, this species was at its time perhaps a third or more of all accommodations, e.g. Right here in the capital area. If money has been avoided by the taxes of my time, as well as the figures I mentioned earlier, then the natural situation of hotel competition and a place to stay with these agents has been a bit out of the question. We in this room are supposed to make sure that men are equal in their rights, all of us. We are here with laws and regulations, equal rules, and we have rules that require people to be dedicated to them and to enforce the procedure. So into this bill it's missing in my opinion, and I'm sure more, the law is that customs and IRS should be promoted in Iceland by funds. It takes money to make money, so I quickly pick up the only American word that was on the lips of many people here. Simply put, this bill is predictable. It's old-fashioned. There is no boldness or primacy in it. There's not much politics in this bill. It's more like self-control from the Ministry of finance. I've been thinking, Madam President, that politicians should be in charge for a long time. They should not wear their noses in each person's coat or breath into the neck language of all who work for the State. But politicians are to rule in such a way that they are to pursue a course. This document here does not mark policy. It drives on the same trip, on the right trip, and this bill is not to be rolled over with rocks. Therefore I have hope, since there is hope of two more tapeworm, that there will be an emptying heart. That there is going to be a scar on the will to break out of a stillness as instructed here. That there will be serious decisions, bold decisions made by men and women elected by the public to pursue the interests of the public rather than to pursue systematic tasks that exist for the system itself and maintain it, Madam President. It's not our job in this room. I see that time is running away from me, and there may be another talk at some point later on in this discussion so that you can improve in your individual activities. But let me reiterate that this is a quiet status bill and systemally very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u114	President. Hv. A senator here spoke of the parish fees I find to be a very interesting way of putting up with the lifestyle of his partner and others. The majority of these proposals are suggested to increase the application rate even more than expected in the bill. I wanted to think about it with a little bit of what it was. A senator would be less successful after all, letting the Buddies themselves collect their parishes and decide for themselves how high or how low the fee is to be, just as they were done, e.g. To the farm organization not that long ago. They were once on budget, but then they were given their own freedom to collect dues. This is a way of freeing societies from this omen of ours here to determine their social fees. It was only a problem of parishion, a poor fund, and so on, but it has something else, it has a church meeting under and it pays on top of it, unlike other lifestyle groups. It makes the matter, I think, even more interesting, that this arrangement is still like this. I think it's a very old-fashioned arrangement and I'd like to think about it by reason of it. A senator could think of some change in that situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u115	Madam President. I love to have hurt a boy. In answer to this, a senator was charged with charge. It is my great pleasure to discuss parishes for what they are. A senator. What he discussed is that each parish is designed to collect itself is not an absolute idea. But I'd like to remind you of the collection we're talking about right now, maybe we're evening the situation of the parish, which is very different all over the country. And let's see if a country that is harder to run is called for the same service, i.e. The same access to psychological care, etc, as is made to the urban population. In that respect, I don't think it's all too old for us to, like a boy. A senator put it, assigning it to an obligatory capital because, as I say, it is quite equal to the situation of the parish which is very different. It is like many other things we do in this hall that turn toward increasing the equation between the region and the urban core at the southwest corner. Therefore, I believe that this method, used here, is designed to create an equation and to help the worst of the parishes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u116	A respectable president. This is of interest, especially because the charges are fixed on an individual. I can't quite figure out how it would be equal, when it all comes down to it, if a certain laboratory society located somewhere in the country was going to collect their own fees from their peers against getting the exact number of fixed parishes for each individual anyway. So I don't quite understand how it's gonna make something equal, at least when you look at it like that. We're having a little difficulty scratching ourselves through this legal committee on the church meeting, which is the other part of all of this, the whole bix of this business. We do not know which land the State was given to fulfill its part of the church meeting. We do not know how much our land was worth against the money we paid from our public funds for them. It's all somehow invisible to us who are supposed to have the budget, that we're in charge of this kind, that this parish is just being paid $1,080. for each person on the parish but cannot just decide for himself. I think it's as if in 1907, when we first started our church meeting, we're still in this system that I think I'm gonna hold back parishes and lifestyles when everything comes down to us because we set the limits they can't work out of.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u117	Madam President. I put it here, and thought quite clearly, that the parish has been expanding. The number of churches under individual parishes has increased, and the number of clergy is on the way. Therefore, the application fees may be more effective, so there was no need to raise them. Here, too, there are natural opportunities for principles of living or for any other, superstition and bug, to get a course. We have a very recent example in which releasing the possibilities of the individual religions or principles so that the collection of expenses was not at all successful. It was set up on a research organization or a religion of uncertain identity, and a government fund financed the very public society, and no one knows what happened to the money. If I recall correctly, this case is still for research, so it will prove to us that this case is never too careful. But, of course, there are opportunities in this, and it just so happens, as recent figures indicate, that here are biological societies that seem to thrive fairly well and then are expected to get further attendances with other members.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u118	President. I just want to continue with the discussion of the application fee, which is part of the talk I was going to give. As shown in the answers to what happened. paritaprevir Sourstein Sæmundsson, he was expected to refer to a zizist who did not collect social fees but took the social fees from the state for a member of the government who is registered by the government. There's a list of the Commission on who's in any lifetime development partner, which is for the first time a natural crazy. There was no doubt about how many of the partners were, but that company was about to get their parishes and then pay them directly to their partners, in effect repaying what is now going to be 1,080. per month. That will be remembered for many. But, yes, it did. There seemed to be a little scam in it with certain parties inside the table, though it was done in good faith, that I was understood by the people who started this. Then there were some jurists in this with those who took over the company and some other side of it. But I think this is a rather good example of the fact that the government should not interfere with these matters. It is simply to take the application fees and throw them away, allow private opinion companies to have membership fees, and charge them as if for any other general association. And then we have a microscope to look through all the needleeyes at the church meeting too, since we are in the issue of religion. It's something we should look at very carefully. I'm interested in the fact that the bill speaks of the application fee raising to 980 bucks. but the more part changes, more than 100 k will be provided. in addition per month. I don't quite understand where that requirement comes from. At any rate, I have received indications that this is kindly refused, even from a life-investment society, which I find very Colombian. I don't quite remember the percentage in this, but the National Church is naturally taking part in the church meeting, which is up to a billion dollars a year, 61.7 billion, something like that, something like that. And then there's the charge for $3.3 billion, so something like that, it's mine, I should have cut this down, or I'd have brought up the budget bill, too, to keep it close to me. It reminds me that about 60% of the parishes go to the National Church. She has registered members, and she gets both from the church meeting and then from the parish. You might think this is just for the part of a philosophy of life that is under the Church of America. It would be interesting to see it better. Like so many times before, we're getting some changes and a pretty big one, I think. The application fee is about to be increased by 10% for the treatment of the greater portion without a complete review period. This is a fundamental change in the proposal submitted in the bill, which is this classic increase per year according to the prices number, etc. Here comes an extra hundred times that comes after the whole narrative. Perhaps some comments called for a higher rate of parishion than those who have made contact with me at any distance, sent comments and conclusions from their lifestyle partners, encourage us to reject this. I find it interesting because, as I know, these reviews don't necessarily come into it. The committee has been reviewed, and if people make comments about these changes, after the matter comes from the committee, they are not listed as such and are not available to the public. But who knows, maybe they'll be listed that way in some way, but I doubt it. I also wanted to cover the carbon pay in very short terms. It's a 25-dollar rise in the gas section of the carbon. At the same time that environmental costs have been raised, I wondered if there are income backs. This is a question that we on the budget board would ask about better information. I was looking at it today if the answers had been received, and I could not find them quickly, because we don't have such a good filing system to keep track of what questions have been sent out and what answers have come in, it's a little scratch. You have to go through all the documents and guesses, here's a document from the Environment and Resource Department, best to open it and see if there's an answer I'm looking for with this question. It's just a particular piece of work, but it's not too efficient. The question was, What income is being made because of the environmental costs we are making. What are we paying for the pollution? Who is it? What's it like using that money? This is not so clear, and the explanation is not so clear as to explain what the effect is on this context of the increase of what - 4%, 2.5%? I'm not supposed to count on the speaker, that doesn't produce good results. Then there is another subject that I wanted to discuss. There is a change in the law on the affairs of the elderly. There is an increase in the elderly's budget of under 300 bucks, 296 bucks. It looks like it's me. We have a shortage of nurses and daykeepers, i.e. leaves which will be noticed, e.g. treatment at the hospital. We've asked a couple of times on a financial committee, nothing has come out of it, how it is done to the elderly, who are to cover the costs of the construction of houses and so on, but tires today share in the cost of their business over the changes made after a collapse. To find a coin somewhere, Pása was placed on the building of residences, and instead, this coin was used in their business, and it hasn't changed since then. We're still using this funding to run a home, but at the same time, others are needed. When we ask how this problem, which has often been called the efflux problem, is solved, the answer has been that it is an added emphasis on home care. That's good and good, and that's great. But it does not answer the question in general how to divide this budget into the elderly's enterprise fund and how to divide it. Is it perhaps part of a home nurse business? Is that what this means? It's clearly not now because changing the market income law turns it all into a state fund, and when, indirectly, it has been stirred up, money is given the equivalent of the amount of money that comes from this currency. What we see, however, is that the currency does not clearly deliver its purpose. Though, by law, to build a living room and a nursing room, we still have this problem with its lack. We have a currency to build, but we're in a position where there's a shortage. It tells you that either there is something wrong with that currency or that it may not be meant to cover all the needs under it. The public tax stocks, the merit tax, etc., should cover the rest. This is the problem in a nutshell I'm trying to describe. Everything is vague in this process. How do we produce the results when we have a shortage of nurses and residents? This must be either a financial problem or in some way a problem and to provide the funding effectively. When we see that part of this budget goes into business rather than building up as it is planned with these laws, we must scratch our heads and make other decisions because of the problem we see, because of the objective and the way it's done to screw it up. Again. It's just a simple, low-level increase, I don't see the percentage, I could turn up the phone and figure it out in a short time, but it doesn't matter, it's a very low percentage increase in percent. It may fit into the 2.5% that they're always talking about. Probably. Yet, the problem exists in all these decisions being made. A 2.5% increase in all dollar charges is being decided. It is less than an inflation forecast, certainly, but it also produces inflation at the same time. It's not being followed, it's an increase for the next year that winds up and generates a measure of motivation and the need to follow it to cover the costs resulting from an increase in centenarian charges. If the money policy is to try to keep the index number low, and we just let the Federal Bank handle that project, and the General doesn't take any part in that work, it is very strange that the government would suggest to the Council that 2.5% of government prices are due. There are interesting things in this bill, and as we've seen before, this is no revolution, if you can put it that way. It's the same as it's been before. Same fractures, same faults. The problems that everyone knows about are not being tackled. Oh, they've always walked like that, and, therefore, what we're law has made them worse, perhaps the attitude. That makes me feel very strange, for we should know how to restore our systems because we know what their purpose is to serve - or what? No matter how many times I ask for e.g. the expense of a legal project at some institution is always the answers: we do not know. We only get this total amount, and it goes on every assignment we do. We don't know how much this project or the other thing costs. All we know is how much this whole thing costs, which is really weird. If this comes together, then you must know about the parts. But for some reason, it seems that the decision always seems to be to guess that the overall process is sufficient to carry out, and the order is, in part, like: You just get this whole thing and you're going to do the whole thing regardless of whether or not you're going to do it. The result is seen breaking out in various places, such as long periods of waiting and such. The thought of both the budget income plan and the financial remuneration plan seems to be on this prince's side: just better guess what's good. Illuminate 2.5% on the centenarian expenses, resulting in some extra income that we can add to our expenses on the other side, without knowing whether these expenditures are sufficient or not to perform the services entitled to the public, without having any idea what the consequences are of the changes made in order to try to perform the public service. Thus the problem is between what it costs to pollute money from the government. It is not obvious to people who want to see it. That is why people scratch their heads and complain about their carbon account because they don't see the effect of it. It is certainly paying for pollution, but it cannot see the consequences of pollution, can't see the benefits of preventing it, can't see a link between them. Although the market income law has disappeared, so the radio rate does not go directly to the State Radio, without the government funds, we still see the purpose of the law that will process the charges. We'll see in the law on the elderly, that's what we're doing. We'll see what it's all about. And then the pay runs through the state funds. So we're asking if government funds will achieve the objective on the other side of which the currency will set. The answer is no. The answer is no in almost every instance of the system, in all systems. Then you start to ask yourself, " What does this bill mean after all? ' Are we paying just fees that will render the service that we legally choose to be the right of people? The answer is no.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u119	A respectable president. I recommend here to the Committee's list a greater proportion of welfare committees with a change in bill for a change in construction law, or the classification and monitoring of activities. The bill suggests changes in the construction laws, No. 160/2010, hiding amongst those in that a minister in the Regulation shall stipulate monuments according to size, severity, intended use and community importance with the aim of adapting the application procedure and monitoring to the extent of implementation. The bill then contains a set of principles relating to electronic interpretation of design data, electronic signatures and agreements for the application process and the submission of data for the mechanism of action. The bill is suggested to require aptitude for the community's construction office and Homekeeping and Engineing Agency under the 19th paragraph. The law will be taken away. The bill suggests that the structure will be stratified by the risk level and monitored accordingly. It will also discuss how to monitor the quality management systems in the construction of workers, i.e. Legally established designers, construction managers, and master of industry. The review of the Homeland and Civilization Agency points out that the bill's translation of the surveillance will be carried out on the basis of written structural information could lead to a misunderstanding that the motive for monitoring depends on the fact that comments on the activities of these persons are recorded in a structural puzzle. This could result in a confusional view of the Bible. The majority contributes to a change in terms of Article 4. the bill for monitoring quality control systems. This change is aimed at ensuring that monitoring is unequivocal and easy to read for those conducting the surveillance as well as for those under observation. For the Commission and the review of Iceland's Organization, comments and comments were made on the importance of the full availability rules for all being followed and encouraged to increase emphasis on compliance with current design requirements. Substantially, the majority agree to this view and aim it to ensure that full access regulations for all that workers will be carried out in the future. There is emphasis on, and, as with ecology and other, that certain quality management systems could be carried out and when used, on the other hand, the law and rules, such as on universal design already present, are monitored as being carried out by burn control and burning requirements and drawings and many other aspects of life - tolerance, and all of it, that monitoring the universal design is similar to that on this electronic architecture. However, the Commission and the reviews emphasized the use of electronic architecture. The majority agree with the indications given to her in this regard, directing it to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Homemaking and Engineers to take good care of the electronic building mystery. A greater part is important to get general use at the first opportunity, but monitoring for building projects will make it much easier. This will also focus the larger part on the above parties in particular on assessments, assessments and recording of moisture damage in the new structure and contributing to monitoring. So, just as a result of the correction and explanations at the end, I want to know that this process has been going on for up to ten years, developing, and changing operations. I think it should be successful now to coordinate the surveillance, increase the quality of surveillance, detection, and so forth by implementing this electronic architecture puzzle, there has become more consistent and so on. Then I think it's possible to have a better perspective on this so that the interests of consumers can be assured what is best, and it will make it easier for the developers to take care of this surveillance and conform to that. Then I'll just refer to the new proposal to the new proposal with the Commission opinion. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this, but in other respects, she signes an opinion. The members of Helga Vala Helgadóttir, who stands, Vilhjálmur Árnason, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Árnadóttir Kolbönóttir, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, Halla Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdóttir, Rafney Frney Magnúsdóttir Magnústótir, and Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u120	A respectable president. Thank you. The majority opinion official Vilhjálmur Árnason for the review and celebrates the case presented and all the main objectives it has. One thing I wanted to ask. A senator about. It's in the committee's opinion with a change of motion. The senator did just so. It says at 1 mg. on page two under the title Absolute Design, by permission of the President: To the Commission and to the review of Iceland's Institute of Environment, comments and comments were made on the importance of the full availability rules for all being followed and encouraged to increase emphasis on compliance with current design requirements. And I'll continue, by permission of the President: To ensure that the full availability rules for all that workers will be implemented, the majority of the components under their views are directed to the permit. I wanted to pray. The leading authority of the committee opinion may be to cover a little deeper than where it is going, whether or not there is a view that the universal target of design will be mandatory, e.g. In terms of width, opposition, and so on, instead of being the current guidelines or guidelines, such as Article 6.4, we see in current guidelines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u121	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this question. What we're talking about in this case is how monitoring, data, and other activities are carried out and how it is being carried out. It's a little bit about how present requirements are being carried out, so we're not here dealing with the building requirements or the building regulations or the building laws or what is involved. But on that point. A senator asks about, in universal design, an extensive discussion has been made, with objective articles being developed and developed. What we are stressing, and the Generous Community in its review, is that the results of these discussions, these laws and regulations that we have come up with so far are being carried out. But we are dealing, not with the rules of universal design ourselves, but with the rules and results we have obtained in the past few years' work, at least is carried out and something is in the systems that see it, not so that the drawings come and it looks like there are laws and regulations, but that is something else. It is often the construction of buildings, even public buildings for public money and in general systems, where these rules are not being carried out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u122	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur, Árnason, answer. In fact, the committee is not encouraging the change of present order. That's why I'm asking this. While it is of course important that the disabled are able to make the most possible possible possible access to them, there have been views to see if it would be wise to maintain the rules of what every apartment is to make for an apartment, including a look at the construction costs and other such. But I don't have a question to ask you. A senator in my later stand, but it's good to be clear about the views of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u123	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again. Then I'll just stress again that here we are talking about the execution of the law and the quality systems associated with them. A long talk on universal design could be given. This is not to be talked about, but rather, to enforce the results we have found in it, and the natural goals there are to create solutions. So I think that it will always be, as the building history moves forward, easier to match the absolute design and it's only more expensive in buildings if the reaction is always needed instead of immediately thinking about it. I think it's a big consumer thing on every side that we're doing a good job here at the start of construction.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u124	Mr. President. I just wanted to come up here and face up to what. Special Agent Vilhjálmur Árnason. I'm an emissary officer, and I agree with this opinion and celebrate the case. The three major changes there, and if corpses act, they're all very positive. I'd like to have some. To review just how the committee suggested suggestions or tips from the OECD on the simple nature of humanitarian activities, a senator and a guide. A few of the accounts showed that this particular report was postponed, and it received considerable publicity in another field. These are tips that you might have thought would have gone in here to some extent. I'm an emissary on the committee, but I haven't been able to track all of them. Counts 'em out. A senator saying there's a match between them? If the timelines had gone down better, would it have been something that would have been normal to wrap in here? Or does the senator feel that these tips have some point in the future work on these matters? Is there any overlap in there? Could we have done so a little better? This is a third point in the case where the proposal is being made to require the practicality of the unit's construction officer and the Housing and Managing Agency to be reassigned and then important work to speed up and make all this work over the head in both efficient and simpler monitoring without compromising quality. The question may be: If OECD had come to account for these suggestions, would it have been possible to improve matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u125	A respectable president. As I came in earlier, it has been a simple process of changing the surveillance and other changes that took a long time, sort of from 2010, when it was first started to create a new one. Regarding biographies, a building site that worked and offered suggestions on how to simplify and what to do was now a simple building order. This has been the beginning of a large conversation of the construction industry, consumers, through unions and the public, and is in rhythm and has been affected by most of the aspects of the OECD process, which are naturally the focus of staging in this and streamlined with applications in the process. But there, too, society has to come along, totally. This building problem will facilitate the rural community throughout its administration. It was only a matter of discussion in the Commission which administration is in the rural community and what management administration is not there, so the rural communities will continue to maintain their administrative databases, but the structural mystery is this way to coordinate everything around them, and this should reduce the administrative costs etc. So I'd like to come into it from OECD that the North countries have also been working together to take down administrative barriers and to coordinate their building rules, which I believe are also a very big step in all of this. So I think we're working in a lot of places. This is a good step, but it can be done even better, and I trust that with the construction site and the cooperation of the establishment of Housing and Engineing Agency, we can do even better in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u126	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. This is exactly as the senator enters, it is the work of many long - term members. This is a process because it has to be said as it is in recent years and decades to develop a rather complex system of rules, probably with good intentions, but it has become a number of obstacles, both in the speed of construction and in the cost and then in the surveillance process. I would like to discuss another aspect, i.e. These electronics and electronic ports. In the bill it is being slided that data can be turned electronically, by electronic signatures, and by application consents, to work out, and to be done most electronically. I am, that I know what to do. A senator is also, quite interested, that we will take a little step in the matter in the near future, and I just want to hear from it. Senator: Is this not something in the opinion of a senator, if this works well, and I believe it when you observe the preparations that have taken place that we are going to get a good grip on this, which we can cross on quite a number of other systems that have not gone so far? Isn't this some kind of a learning process that's about to start right now, that we'll be able to access our system to this electronic work to save people time and work, and hopefully thereafter? Can't see why. A senator realizes that this process of learning has been through this matter can be overcome in other areas of the administration? I'd like to hear what we're doing. A senator has to say about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u127	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these inquiries and reflections. I take to heart that here we have a very positive step, but we must say that it has taken an incredible long time to do this building mystery. Yet, what makes you optimistic is that the new institution set up, a Housekeeping and Engineer's Office, is so focused on digital work in this electronic, driving it along with the support of all the construction agents and rural society. That's what I think we should transfer to as most of the lawsuits and organizations, to be so enthusiastic about going into the modern world to improve the management of users, as well as operating management. I don't know if it's connected to the fact that it's already been financed, but there's never been a debate that they needed money to finish it. It was just, "Now the law comes and we're gonna drive it through and finish it." Then we have another case for the council where we ask: Wait, why are you going to take yourself to 2022 or 2020, as if we've known other institutions on the welfare committees? Then capitals are always blamed instead of setting the focus only on increasing the service, increasing quality with increased coordination and perspective, and increasing access. You need to stop crying about money and just get into things.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u128	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much, but I wanted to come up here and celebrate this bill. It's part of a long process. Like what? This process has been under way for more and less ten years in one way or another. The subject, which is one of the three core elements of the bill, was taken into the environment and transportation committee where we both have our seats, me and the head of the Committee, along with the coordinators. paritaprevir Katrín Friðriksson's son. Hv. paritaprevir The Brjánsson, who sits in the hall, did not enter the environment and transport committee then. So we are very familiar with this matter, and here we are dealing with the viewpoints that appeared then. It's probably been 149th Congress, if I remember correctly. I think there will be a great improvement that the surveillance system will be determined by the complexity and scope of implementation, as follows, by the permission of the President: ▪... to classify monuments according to the scope and scope of their actions in the Regulation. ◯ So the Lands Hospital ▪ College Hospital and Harpa are not held in a similar fashion as a house in which the construction conditions are simple. One of the main elements of the bill is, by permission of the President: ... that electronic interpretation of design data and electronic signatures and agreements for application and return data to workers' data will require a principle... It's just a very positive part of the electronic Iceland that is constantly being built up. I'm telling you, after working in this man-infestation environment for a few hours, it's going to be a big advantage for all the proponents; designer, contractors, and contractors. It's gonna be a simple outsider. This will reduce the chances of failure outside teeming and building up like a multifolding data and having to constantly send employees, I don't now talk about in the current state of disease action, the local population between drawing an update, stamped after the old song. I am very happy to see that this is finally over. The third key issue on the bill, as mentioned here, is the requirement for professionality for the local construction office and the MEC. In terms of these professional requirements, they were set in very clear lines by the Environment and Transport Committee at 149th Council to be removed from these requirements, which are disproportionate to what happens in neighboring countries and those of our control countries, as stated in the bill itself, by permission of a president: ▪... has repeatedly been called to the attention that the requirement for professionality of all organisations is unknown elsewhere in the states of the North and other countries in which Iceland aims and that excessive household costs will be over-reached by all members of the surveillance team. It has been noted that such a broad demand for professional practice does not result in the simple management and order of the construction industry. It is very good to note that these views have been addressed in line with what has been passed on to the Council's Committee on Related Affairs, both in the former Committee of Human Action, which says the Environment and Transport Committee, and then on the welfare committee, are being looked for ways to ensure that a more efficient housing can be provided than a thread of regulations that will be promoted and that it will be, I don't want to use the word modern, but it must always be considered that the flow will be the best of all. The campaign group produced proposals in January 2019, 40 suggestions for the improvement of housing markets, which included: had the goal of lowering the construction cost. With this work and other similar bodies, to form the viewpoint of the industry's Association, we need to continue to work so that we are producing apartments and shelters of good things in the most practical way, with a minimum of the cost being paid. It doesn't make the home any better, it doesn't improve the property the client has been committed to making photocopies and ending up among the kontoors with stamps. We need to put the energy into the focus where we can achieve economy, a better flow, a less complex level than at the same time try to maintain the quality of buildings and to put energy on a well - kept pace, such as studies of the mold problems that have been all shut down in these sectors over the past few years, and they don't provide the end. We need to put the emphasis at a high rate as we try to carry on with the goal of offering useful buildings without wasting time, energy, and money on unnecessary and foolish occasions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u129	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this case much, but I'm on the committee's opinion and support it. I'm just gonna come in on the absolute design. The idea is that public buildings are not put into use, and then, after a few years, they may be completed, but they make sure that design is absolute, so that those who need it can reach public buildings and other buildings at the same time. That all, whether in wheelchairs or not, may make good use of these buildings. Sadly, this has failed. Official buildings have been opened because an elevator has not been dropped and has been drawn for many years. Then, of course, it is a matter of paying close attention. It is just as sad when these things have been done in every way for those who are going to use ramps and other items for wheelchairs, but they can't be used because they are wrong. We're just supposed to make sure things are okay. I think and I hope that by putting this into the Commission opinion, they will make sure once and for all time that such facilities are not put into use until it is clear that everyone can take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u130	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill of a change in terms of merit tax laws and financial taxes. The bill's on the roof. 464 and 372th for the council. The objective of the bill is varied, but their main material is reported in III. section of the bill. I'm going to explain to you the key elements of the bill. It is suggested that credit laws should clearly state the current appenditive value tax pay on the sale and distribution of financial services. In this connection it is suggested that insurance, which is also the exception of a valuable tax, be dropped under the term "final service. " At the same time, there are some secondary changes to the budget laws. The laws of the law allowing the release of financial and securities companies to remain unchanged from the law's sentence. In recent years, significant technological changes have occurred in financial and related activities, such as financial technology. In this light, it is considered appropriate to adapt the wording of the law to the changes that have taken place in the global environment of financial services. The aim of the change is thus to reduce uncertainty and increase tax clarity. The bill is now presented with a change in the terms of this addition, and taking into account the comparable requirements in the Norwegian values tax laws, which require sale and transfer of financial services to be a restricted tax laws. It is thought that Norway should be viewed in these areas, where Norway is in the same position as Iceland's towards the European Union, i.e. stood outside the Union, but within the European economy. In fact, it has also been developed in Norway on the interpretation of the law in recent years, both tax authorities and courts, which can be seen and seen in the product of the bill. Then, the bill suggests an extension of temporary regulations 33 and 34 on cost taxes, which are always attributed to the campaign all work, with the provision of a temporary increased remuneration of the valuable tax to the inhabitants and owners for construction, reform or maintenance of housing etc. With law No. 25/2020, for the change in the law to meet the economic effects of a pandemic crown virus, was agreed to increase the pay rate of human work at the site of construction from 60% to 100% in the period between March 1 and December 31, 2020. At the same time, the reimbursement rate was agreed to include the reimbursement tax paid on the basis of human work at the construction site of a vacation home, as well as the design or monitoring for innovation, reform or maintenance of an apartment and vacation home. Along with these changes, it was also adopted during the same period to reimburse owners or tenants of an apartment building 100% of the worth tax paid for domestic services or regular housing care, as well as to allow 100% reimbursed credits to be paid to individuals outside the sector that were paid by people who were paid for car repairs, car paints, or driving rights. With law No. 37/2020, on the change of the law to face the economic effects of a pandemic crown virus, was also determined to include 100% reimburse money from work to another home entirely owned by a community or institutions and partners owned by them. It was also legalized that certain public welfare organizations, for example, to form humanitarian and charities, sports companies, rescue teams and other organisations, should be entitled to 100% reimburse a tax of work during March 1 through December 31, 2020, at a construction site, maintenance, or reimbursement, according to specific criteria. The law of No. 73/2020, about the change in credit law. It is known that at the end of this month and at the end of this year, the sources of preliminary quotations are still unchanged. However, it is thought that by 2021 the evidence for the increased financial reimbursement of the provisional regulations will continue. Following the severe but transient effects of a pandemic crown virus in the community, it is suggested that their time be extended for one year, i.e. ... toDecember 31stDecember 2021. In addition, a change in the values tax laws is proposed, providing a reduction in the maximum reported release of a link vehicle, now under legal temporary regulations 24 of the law, to certain conditions being met. With such reduction, imports and sales providers develop a link to the import and sale of environmentally linked vehicles supporting the government's action programme for climate change, aimed at the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions to 2030. Thus, the change has a positive effect on the measures taken by the government's emission-lowering strategy. It has been estimated that during the past few years, significant developments have taken place in the technology of a vehicle vehicle. In this regard, the development of a linking vehicle on pure electricity has greatly increased the last loss that has resulted in less carbon dioxide emissions. In view of this, changes in authorised maximum emissions are now considered appropriate. The change is not expected to lead to a significant decrease in the number of connected automobiles that are subject to indiscretions according to the directive, but some linking vehicles that release excess new limits will fall out of coincidence because of the change. It is then considered necessary to establish a new set of laws for temporary 29 on the terms of cost taxation that must be allowed to cancel the value tax in the import of medicinal products administered by the State or its institutions for the treatment of patients in medical institutions. The legalisation of the directive will now be allowed to cancel the value tax for import in the clinical studies in this country from January 1, 2021 to 31 December 2023, but now there is a plan for the Landspians to participate in a clinical trial for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia in children who will be included in the directive. There is also evidence to allow the conversion to eliminate the valuable tax from the import of other medicinal products due to the Covid-19 pandemic administered to the State or its institutions for the treatment of patients in the medical facility. The bill further suggests that if a valuable tax report is submitted at the specified time, it will be permitted to reimburse the tax of a treatable tax tax tax tax, although there may be an unsolved report due to the previous renovation period. However, this reimbursement will continue to be prohibited if the application of previous up-to-dates is based on the Governor's programme. It is thus permitted, on the basis of the requirement, to repay the terms of the worth tax, although an internal report due to the previous run-in period is unsupervised, unless the application of previous filing periods is based on the government tax management programme. Finally, legalisation of new laws is proposed temporarily on the terms of cost taxes, where it must be authorized to deviate from the Code of General Reconstructions of the Law in the period 1st of March. 2020 to 31 December 2021, i.e. will be removed or suspended, and will be returned to the value tax, due to the sale of the taxable service implemented on the basis of written contracts to at least Two years of real estate and at least Six months of renting and renting of cash, meeting specific criteria. There is evidence that many tenants, for example, were made up of long - term tourist contracts, have not been able to pay due to a loss of income due to a global economic situation created by a pandemic crown virus. This is especially true when renting a job house, where credit is paid for. Even though rent costs are not paid or paid, rent halls are required to provide due tax pay on pay paid on due due due due due to the period in which they appear to provide services in the form of rent from month to month according to the financial tax system. Following the high declines that have taken place in various sectors, governments have responded by various measures. The proposal is for a comparable reason and is intended to deal specifically with the loss of renters, as shown here, which are bound by long-term contracts. A respectable president. The bill's proposals are considered to have a negative impact on the total tax pay of 9 billion dollars. It is therefore assumed that the proposed changes in terms of budgetary services have virtually no impact on financial funds, but are primarily leading to greater clarity. Suggesting for the extension of all work for the next year is believed to have a negative financial impact on a wealth of 9 billion. Almost all the financial impact of the bill is found in this law. It should be noted that even if the projects that must have taken place in 2021, the actual reimbursement can be applied for six years, and the loss of the income of the State on the basis of this provision must be assumed to be extended over a longer period of time. Suggestion to reduce the maximum number of registered emissions of a link vehicle is mainly designed to contribute to the implementation of the government's policy on climate, as I have considered, and the import of drugs is not thought to have a major impact on the income of the state's funds. In terms of reimbursement, on the basis of a valuable tax report, it is largely assumed that it can have a positive financial impact for the state's funds. This reduces the likelihood of paying interest from a government fund, reduced reimbursement on the basis of such reports over a legal period. It is involuntary for taxes, thus having a good effect in all respects. It is not expected that the proposal of the bill for temporary subsidies or continuation of reimbursement and credit due to the sale of taxable services in the form of property, housing, and rent funds would have a significant financial impact on the state's funds, in view of the fact that, in most cases, it is a source of authority to transport the valuable tax from the tax to the tax. I think I did well with all the key points of this matter and the evidence for them. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee following this discussion and then the 2nd. Here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u131	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to Level 4. the bill involved in changing the thresholds of the emissions of connecting cars falling below XXIV. provision for temporary use in the terms of merit tax laws. This law went against the bill that the minister ordered here a year ago. That's when they went to the top. A minister to be in favor of connectors fell from the beginning to the new millenniums, which are about to begin with the following words: Since this is the case, it is considered that such inquisitives are not needed for vehicle vehicles beyond the end of 2020. This preliminary principle was introduced into the races on the last day of Christmas by the year, from the end of the year. The Economic and Business Committee, whose manager proposed a 16th - December conversion that went contrary to what a minister had said in favor of link trucks, had simply yielded the results. That's why I wondered if the Ministry did this proposal in 4. c., evaluated the impact of this preliminary principle and the highest. A minister may, from the fact that he provided a bill on the support of eco-friendly vehicles a year ago, continue to argue, or whether something has changed to justify the strictness of this provisional principle in the law on merit taxation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u132	A respectable president. The factors that take place in the evaluation of the law are up to a considerable degree of thought and cannot directly be placed on a ruler to determine if that time is exactly now, or if it will be later, in order to eliminate these specific coincidences. You're right about what you're doing. A senator that we have at considerable speed - and when I say at high speed, I refer to the speed of the changes being made in the production of this type of automobile, the great changes in consumption patterns within the country, in the composition of the fleet, and so on. It's not entirely certain that we'll always meet in the middle of every shot we've got. However, here we have been reasoned that we should only narrow the requirements for the inquisitive import of a vehicle vehicle and among those shaved who have been identified in the leading of this case, they say that immigrants say that their clients for many years have moved from traditional fuel or diesel trucks to link trucks before they are fully involved in electrical vehicles. While the electric cars are not advanced in the development that we see there, the strong evidence has developed from immigrants that this option should continue to move on in order to speed up adaptation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u133	Mr. President. The thing about fast-changing is they're going to reach natural electric cars, too. The situation has become that motor vehicles are far less needed today than they had last year, let alone meet the previous year, to bridge the gap between cars that cover fossil fuels and clean energy cars. I agree with that to narrow the conditions for a contact car to get an injury, as the secretary proposes here. But I would like to see it taken into consideration by the Commission because, yes, these are mental standards up to some extent, but climate and environmental impacts can be assessed by decisions like this. There is something that should be done when it comes to the use of automobiles. But as soon as we're talking about this particular provisional law in the ESP, I'd like to ask the minister of a change proposal coming from a Economic and Business Committee to the Union we talked about earlier today, where the Committee suggests to postpone the wish of next year's linking cars. This results in a total of 3 60,000 dollars. amendment for each buyer of such a car if all make full use of it. And if the sales of these cars get something like this year, we're talking about hundreds of millions. There have been 2,000 transport trucks for the remainder of this year. 2,000 times 3 60,000 per car would be 720 million. You're on top of it. This minister is the best provision for money for energy exchange?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u134	A respectable president. I think the two adjustments made by the council here to take a stand on the matter are a bit of the same hurt, the one that hasn't. A senator refers to an answer and the one I'm measuring for. The question is how we achieve our long - term goals and how we speed up the process most. Hv. In support of his presentation, a senator uses two standards, one on the other, the scale of climate success, and the second one uses his financial standards for financial wealth. It may well be worth seeing from possible revenues due to changes that might otherwise have resulted in transport costs, just to see more development in the formulation of the vehicle fleet. In particular, I'm going to say that in the past few years, we've achieved far more success than we could afford to hope, since we began to use these strong intentions. In fact, we have reached the present time when we have begun to reduce them slightly. The bill on which we are on the schedule starts to reduce the inquisitive forces in favor of an automobile vehicle, on the other hand, because of the positive development of an electrical carvagation and because of the results we have achieved. If we drop all of these cars, transport vehicles, and other environmental energy sources, we're moving in proportion of most of the nations from such vehicles to the rest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u135	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the change in income tax laws and the tax standards for capital gains. The government's government contract contains laws that stipulate the increase of capital taxes to 22%. Early in this terms period, a legal change was made in accordance with that policy, but in the government's covenant, the tax stock will also be revised. At the beginning of this year, I ordered a team of workers assigned to shape proposals for a reimbursement of tax capital taxes in line with these objectives and is involved in the bill. look to the proposed task force. The task force has thus produced a more detailed report on the subject and puts it in historical and international contexts, a very well-deserved report carried out by Dr. Axel Hall, economists in the financial and tax fields of the Ministry, as well as in the tax collectors. The bill is based on this report, this assessment, which I encourage you to study, which is available on the Homepage of the Ministry of finance. This bill is based on this job. This bill suggests four types of changes that all involved in the taxation of capital income. First, 150,000 is suggested. This is a four - mile - long [300,000 km] - a - day [day] contribution to the interest industry. Second, the pay market is also suggested to take in the form of profits and stock markets in registered partners. Third, the sale interest of a vacation house is suggested to be restricted in a comparable way to that of an apartment building within the laws of the law. Fourth, when individuals see certain expenditures in a foreign currency, such as school fees abroad, rent payments, or other types of deposit, they are given the more detailed examples of how this might work, and the conditions that could be explained. First, on the voluntary interest market: Here, as I have stated, it is suggested that an individual's holiday target, whether he or she has unlimited or limited tax obligations in this country, increase from 150,000. of 300,000 k. every year. It is estimated that the income of the state's budget will decrease by 770 billion. K. the proposal is accepted. The bill also offers a new suggestion for expanding the funds that fall under the interest market. If the law changes, it will include not only interest markets but also interest and market stocks in partners registered in an orderly stock market or market market for financial gain. The reviews of this aspect of the law have included. It has been shown from Salell that it would be desirable to extend this law somewhat by e.g. that it might take on First North Business. I believe that as a result, there has been an excellent reason for it, however, I believe there is a pretty tight line between doing business in a structured stock market in this context and opening up for an unsolved letter to fall under the rule. This would bring a $300,000 bill. The pay-off target is equal to interest income, profits, and stock markets of registered partners. On the other hand, if a common income is more than 300,000 dollars. the above would be tax-related according to the general rules. This change, however, provides tax incentives for investments, resulting in interest gains and income incomes and markets. It is hoped that the change will make the stock market a payable investment option from what has been and thus encourage greater participation in stock markets by the public. In 2021, the proposed adjustment will take place, and the pay will be dropped by 150 million. K. Each year the proposal will be approved. The profits of house sales and house - to - house living are generally considered taxable on a year of sales. However, interest from the sale of housing is not considered to be taxable income, the seller's residence at least two years and that the total total house house owned by a seller on a day of sale is not more than 600 cubic feet [600 cu m], i.e. Two hundred cubic feet [1,200 cu m] in the event of a married couple. However, if the housing business is for its own use, the size limit does not match. The interest of people from a vacation house is considered to be taxable capital pay on a year, and the profits of all equal to 22% capital pay taxes, an additional factor that has such a loss in the interest of individuals who receive payable payable payable taxbacks from public security. On the other hand, an reformer who sells another house that has not been used by himself does not pay taxes on the market and its benefits will not be impaired, provided that the total volume is under the boundaries. It's a little hard to talk about these total numbers. People in general have not gotten used to using volumes when discussing property, but let's just say that 1,200 cubic feet [1,200 cu m] is a fairly thin rule and that it is rarely tested, very rare. This conflicting management of sales of vacation house sales and the sale of another househouse that has not been used for itself, however, seems unfair, not to mention the extraordinary impact that the sale of a vacation house can have on social security rights. If we just take a typical case that might be related to a person who sells his leisure house in the Grimines, for example, then sales may be used for such a property, often resulting in such a thing. when a person has recently lost a mate and then decides to sell the vacation house, to form a taxable stock, and also to reduce social insurance payments. If that same couple, who then fell away, had a place at Selephoss, decided to get rid of the property there, would have met up with other conditions, the number of cubic feet, did not come to taxation on the market, and since he was not a taxpayer, neither would any restrictions have been made on public insurance. Now, let's assume that these are individuals in the same year, almost neighbors, one who owns another property in the county of Aarhus and the other with a house of summer in the Gímiras. If their circumstances are otherwise the same, our tax and insurance systems are handling these two matters in a very different way, only because one was selling his other property, even though he did not live in it, while the other was selling his summer house or his vacation house. This is what we want to fix with this bill. We want to fix both, different tax treatments, and what is involved in the deterioration of social security. This we do by suggesting that profits from the sale of private house - to - house use will be taxed in a comparable way as in an apartment home setting, as being met by the requirements for time and size. However, an additional requirement is that the possession of a vacation home has lasted to a minimum of five years on a sales date for two years, as appropriate in the case of housing. The decrease in income fund is expected to vary from 600 to700 million. K. Each year the proposal will be approved. The last item listed in this bill turns to the prosperity of special savings accounts. It is recommended that the withdrawal authority be at the level of the insolved gang profits with certain restrictions. In accordance with local regulations, there is a tax and local legal obligation to injected. Thus, a person who deposits 1,000 euros in a currency account may have to pay a tax of interest, even if he works out the same 1,000 euros shortly later, if the Icelandic kroner's gang has been reduced to well worth it. The adjustment does not interfere with the overall tax obligation of an individual's inaccessible deposit in foreign currency. The change is aimed at meeting the individuals who see certain expenditures in foreign currency in the near future and invest in foreign currency in order to protect themselves from the changes in the Icelandic government. This is so that people can establish a special account for this purpose for up to 15,000 SDRs, on which they can turn, and that is done for a certain declared purpose. As in a bill report with the bill, this depends on men forming such accounts in consultation with financial institutions, which in other respects make sure that the conditions of the law are met. This can be done for three years, and this is the effort to support people in what would want to reduce their risk because of changes in the minimum financial level and is in a way in addition to the rise in the holiday market, while the gang changes in the Icelandic Clan and the consequences of tax reform have been criticized because people are not experiencing a huge gain in the progress of the cent. But it should be noted that when we evaluate tax effects, we turn everything into dollars. The rise in the holiday market will help to reduce the tax benefits of the Icelandic Walking Change for all the normal sums of which three Icelandic households may have in currency, even though it may not be the norm. Then this comes another one. This is an assembly of individuals who see certain expenses in a foreign currency in the coming years, as I've been doing here. These may include school fees, rent payments, or the like. Don't buy anything, though. I believe this law is a great improvement. This adjustment also involves the legislation on the local tax payment on capital income, so that the incorporated prosperity produced by these specialized savings, which must be established in this purpose, would not be subject to payment, as is now the bill becoming a law. The change is expected to result in a loss of income less than 200 million. K. A year or so, but the effect would be primarily if there are mood swings in the Icelandic world, and only if there is a decrease in value. Thus, it is a little difficult to estimate, on average, a year into the long future. I believe that this law is greatly improved, but as we have seen, it is the simple market that has much greater impact and reaches even more. Into the effects of gang change, as I've only been on the inside. A respectable president. I have evaluated the impact of the proposed bill in my case along with material coverage. As a whole, we are talking about a decrease in income, which can be between 1.5 billion and 1,800 million. This amount is similar to the effects of an increase in the worthy tax at the beginning of the season, though lower, as it was proposed to the council at least I believe I have considered all the major issues involved. To this end, I suggest that the bill be referred to why. The Economic and Business Committee and then the 2nd. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u136	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss this bill's key elements with a little different prefixes. As with this older couple, it is likely a matter of justice. A minister mentioned things that happen when one of his or her spouse falls away from having to sell the summer house and lose them. Social security against the sales profits that will be made from the little cabins in the Grimines. It's good to get my hands on this. The report says that in most cases this will prevent the deterioration of social security benefits. I'd like to ask the minister, "What are the circumstances in which these matters are not ignored? " Likely, we want to, when under attack against a degree that people think is unfair, to embrace all of them. On the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the loose market and on the other hand, depositing money under the perennial market, I pause a little more, and especially because of it, as observed at the highest level. Minister, this is a considerable amount of money. During such a time when there is honor and dignity, there is no quarter of billions of them, especially in those days. The head of the legislature board is struggling to keep seawater in the business of state funds. Then it seems to blow a little bit about opening up for another billion out of the state's budget. That's why I stop to eat the effects. This article examines the economic impact of the State but would not have been successful in evaluating, e.g. influence on gender equality, because I suspect that there may be a gender difference between people who have a lot of interest in interest or who take advantage of money and sales, as well as just influence on certain social groups. [[The president calls.]] I suspect that although there is a general law here at the same time, there may be a very specific, small group of people involved, and there is something that we need to keep before making a decision on this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u137	A respectable president. First of the cases where we can't get the bill to have this positive effect on the rights to improve social security. That would be when the person was selling vacation house and his overall house was over 1200 m3 rule. There was a taxation that led to the taxpayer's loss of income. If the possession had not reached the 5-year reference period, the same could have consequences. It is of course to provide the Commission with information on how money taxes are paid by sex, the money under which they are, and, depending on the events and the details that can be considered, on the social groups. But I think it's obvious and I've seen numbers about it--I don't have them in my head--that men pay the capital tax to a greater degree than women. However, women are also very large lenders of fiscal tax. In this taxation in older generations, taxable income is more characteristic of the tax. I think it's a bit of a puzzle not to make a difference between the tax layer, like I was referring to my case, and I think it's also an important, independent goal to increase the number of options for saving Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u138	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize various tax and tax laws. In the name of the bill, we say that it is a tax impulse for lawyers who work for the greater good. I'd like to start by saying that this is a matter that has been considered for quite a long time in the administration system and one of the findings, in the review of these matters, is that when it comes to building a tax system that simply says to all the important public welfare involved, we appreciate what you are doing. In many places, even in countries that we call high taxes, such as Denmark, have gone a long way in making it possible for human resources to be distributed into funds that are highly taxable and even protected by law. In fact, there are strict conditions, e.g. for the permanent expansion of possessions placed in such funds, etc. But if the funds have established in more detail the purpose of the law, you can say nothing more than that the tax system operates in such a way. There has been quite a different development here in Iceland. True, we have considerable self - interest institutions and various kinds of charitable organizations and public welfare. There is no denying that we have injudicious rules, e.g. for such things as Landsbourg, and in various ways we reach out to other activities of sports and hobbies, with various social functions, making it easier for humans to develop such activities. In many ways, rural communities support such activity in an intangible way, but the tax system has not been used much as an instrument for this purpose. And what's more, there, of course, are exceptions, we have taken shorter steps, I want to mean, but in many other places we can be seen to encourage both individuals and legalists to support this operation and so, without a direct change of state, free of capitals that are available in the community in behalf of such activities. And this is one of the things this bill is about. In fact, it's about both, that we can directly apply our taxes to such activities, but we can also use it indirectly, so that a third person who does not personally engage in such activity will be inclined or motivated to contribute to the third sector, as we often call it, a team. All of this is to think and suggest here because we appreciate what the third sector is doing. I think that often and often the importance of social activity in this area was greatly underestimated by those who are being discussed here. That's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna go down to the bill a little bit further. I'm glad it's out. I would have wanted to make that effort some time ago. I want to thank all those who have had the opportunity to prepare it. I know we're not all at all meeting all the expectations of those who've been watching their work, but I still feel that we're here with a very important case that's urgent to be taken care of. The objective of this bill is, in line with what I've been saying here, to improve and strengthen the tax environment of the citizens working for the greater good and to fall into the third sector. This is an activity that is not considered to be the private sector or the public sector. A international comparison has revealed that in most of our neighboring countries, tax incentives for the public welfare work are more widespread than in this country. Thus, it is necessary to increase tax incentives for these legislation, thus strengthening the support of the work done there rather than for the public and fall into the third sector, which plays an extremely important role in society. I think we all know deep down. We can see that the hearts of the people are beating with these stakes when they get their lights on. We see this at the turn of year - to - year business with Landsbourg and the relief forces in the country. We can see that when people buy the distress call. We can also see this when the elf is sold to support the activities of the U.S.A. We can see this in so many cases in the face of conflict, but here we are not making any effort, we are talking about creating an ongoing better setting for all this activity. But we are, as I said before, not only to increase the tax incentives for these legislations but also to increase motivation for donors because of gifts and contributions to this operation. With increased tax incentives for both receivers and donors, the work for the greater good, which falls into the third sector, will grow stronger and will again enrich the important volunteer work being done in the various members and partners of the country. The changes take to a large extent the proposals made by a group of workers that I made in April 2018, the tax environment of the Third Sector, and returned their proposals in January. In the past, we have been trying to map this out, and we were able to contribute a considerable amount of material to the work force. I would also like to thank the group for the fine work that was done there. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson led him and was president of the group, and we have previously published and discussed the results. This bill is based on this job, and here it's all developed further. I will now review the key elements of the bill, and I will try to make this method so that all of it will be delivered: It is suggested that the term, "the general good, " replace the term," the general culture of the term, and be further defined by the law on income taxes. The concept is not currently defined in income tax laws, but tax administration has been regarded as the deduction of donors given for a particular category of activity, as defined by the separation of the legal profession to the public goods or not. Thus, under the term "general Forces of Salvation, Scientific Research, Self - Education and Other Education, Neighbouring and Prevention, National Institutes, National Institutes, and Other Records of Religion and Life. " It is assumed that a Regulation shall be set up that will determine the different categories of issues and the actions involved in the other aspects of the procedure. It is then suggested that individuals be allowed to draw large financial contributions to the citizens working for the greater good from taxable income, up to a maximum of 350,000 dollars. every calendar year, to meet further conditions. It is a new source of income from outside the workplace, which will be considered very important in making money where it encourages giving, and it promotes the legal rights to the public. According to this arrangement, people can reduce their tax base, their taxable income, by up to 350,000 dollars. It's done here in the bill, more detailed in the report, how this happens, and I have to say that I think the work on the subject has led to a very good conclusion about this. But as the report indicates, this occurs in practice, beginning with the registration of humans and registration of the tax, it is conditional that they can be accepted for a grant that falls under the rule. When the strength is given, a receipt is given to the giver. The recipient of the granter's grant is then obliged to enter the iRS in a kind of return form for all the requisite donations, which eventually lead to tax returns with the advantage of the appropriate contribution, up to 350,000. per year of taxation in this case. I must commend officials for my efforts to this place. In other words, the only thing a person needs to worry about is that he or she is building up a registered and receiving a receipt, and the next thing that happens is that the tax process is introduced, which will be taken into account when stressing the under tax rate. It is also suggested that the share of the workforce as a result of individual PES will be increased from 0.75 percent to 1.5%. We're doubleing this deduction clearance. It has been 0.75% of the company's employers, but will be 1.5% as presented here. At the same time, a word change in the light of the changes laid down in summer by law No. 86/2020, the deduction of carbon balance operations, such as forest production, healing work, and recovery of wetlands. This recovery is an independent authority to provide donations for the activities involved, i.e. 1.5%, and that's how we really are, if the employer uses both sources, from 0.75 percent, and not to 1.5%, but to 3% of revenues. These are by then 3% of the income that can be used to lower tax populations. Finally, I have to guess that there is a change that this deduction warrant does not take on political parties, which are in accordance with current law. I think it's a natural change in the light of how we've been raising our support for political activity in the country by means of public donations. A little more detailed on this point, because it has been shown that we are today with a rule of 0.75 percent of revenues as a reference. In a paper with the bill, on page 18. 6 in a specialized copy here before the council, you can see that when we made the transition from 0.5% to 0.75 percent, gifts and donations increased a billion each year. I must say, there was a big change. We see this in that during 2015 the change from 0.5% to 0.75 percent, and contributions had already been 2.7 billion, but in the year when the change took effect, these numbers, gifts and contributions, increased from 2.7 billion to 3.7 billion, a tremendous change. And now we're going from 0.75 percent, which has averaged over the past few years to a total of 3.7 billion each year for gifts and contributions, to 1.5%. Whether we can expect such an increase, we shall not say, but I'm sure we'll see a considerable increase. Then there is the endless addition that particularly concerns the green issues I was doing here. We can expect that even if this becomes some government income loss, contributions will be made directly into the public population. As I have entered, there is a new reference in the bill that the deduction criteria, whether in terms of law enforcement or individuals, that the legal entity working for the public goods is registered in a social social network of the tax and that must have been used when giving a gift or the supply is granted. It is then suggested that the citizens working for the public good will be sullied and income tax from revenues, but Iceland is the only nation in the Netherlands today who will not subside the financial gains of the citizens working for the public goods of income taxes. I think this is a very important thing. The bill also suggests that those who work for the public good will be able to request 60% of the reimbursement tax from the work force at the construction site, or due to improvements or maintenance, to meet certain criteria. Here we are talking about a permanent law. Here earlier tonight, I was measuring the extension of 100%, all of the people working the campaign, but here we are talking about the permanent law that would last longer, not temporarily, but for a long time. I realize that some in the third sector have been looking forward to paying them not only for work at the construction site but also for shopping. That was what we considered. It is difficult to accurately evaluate it, but it is a very classy step when we compare with the general remuneration authority we have had in the merit tax control on this. Some might say that it doesn't matter because the objective, the objective, was noble, but it comes to the conclusion that if you want to support it rather than do the variety of resources that are present in this bill, we are not bound to use the valuable tax system in itself -- as if you want to. In such cases, we can find other ways. But having said this, is the task really enough to answer the question, Is it enough? That is, in fact, the underlying question. Does this mean that there is more to it? I think it may be much more the question, and I think that we just haven't seen enough convincing evidence in the preparation of this case that in general such support is needed, that what we are doing otherwise in this bill does not come up with much of it. Sixty percent reimbursement is the one outside as a permanent rule of enormous navigating. I don't think that's to belittled at all. But the rest depends on something. What's the need? How far should we go? Should we go further in applying the valuable tax system, or should we possibly go further, if we appreciate it so that it needs to go further, in drawing money from job efficiency? These are the kinds of questions we've had to go through with this bill, and here's a conclusion that is quite appealing, although I know that many people would also want to see the subject underneath. The bill suggests that the concept of charity should be defined more closely by the law on the value tax. At the same time, it is suggested that the date in which good works will be expanded from the worth tax and that the law will be extended. It is thought that the time limit is too narrow, and it can even counteract the prospect of a fund - raise. After the change, each activity per month can last for a maximum of five days instead of three days before. The same person can thus only be given a minimum of five days for one retail operation each month. It is also suggested that if annual events occur, such sales will be permitted continuously for 25 days instead of 15 days in advance. It is suggested that persons who work for the common good and are reserved for income taxes will also be excluded from the required timers' fees according to the reference charge. For example, legislators who are an exception to income taxes and spend their profits solely for the sake of the public good, making this as their sole goal today. It should be noted, then, that the clock charge of documents relating to the possession of ships has been removed over five grosstons. The change includes: has a positive influence on the activities of rescue teams requiring the change to pay 1.6% of the payload price. This can mean a lot to partners like this. Finally, it is suggested that the laws on genetic tax be passed not to pay hereditary taxes on donations and contributions to persons working for the greater good. Therefore, this law will no longer be limited to the contributions made to partners and to automates at this time, but to all those who fall under the terms of the P.R. but so far it has been only gifts and contributions that, otherwise, should be paid from the financial tax that has been taken into account. We're extending the rule. It will not be required to pay your genetic taxes on donations and donations to partners working for the greater good, much more extensive policy. A respectable president. As I am here, it can be seen that the proposals of the bill will have a negative impact on the financial income of the state and will take up the change of $2 billion. every year. I think it should be the way it should be at least 2 billion francs. who go to the public good work every year in no time. I hope it'll be to achieve that operation all over the country. This is a category in the evaluation of a legal authority to cut down on income from a donor or a donation of some 800 billion. K. What concerns individuals is about half a billion and the loss of the state's budget by the legal bodies that only protect their profits to the public and have it as their sole objective as approved by the release of income tax from capital income can lead to about 400 million. K. ... lesspayingfora sumoftheweapon. It is, for example, that the university fund and other educational funds are benefiting from a wealth of about 2.5 to 10 million. K. every year. Expenditure of the reimbursement tax due to man's work at the construction site is estimated at around 200 billion. K. every year. Plunger pool, about 100 million. K. The growth of the genetic tax can result in about 100 billion. K. loss of a year. Of course, it's all estimated numbers and it's hard to measure exactly, but it's like this. I'm going to allow myself to assert that this bill will have a very positive effect on the function of the citizens working for the greater good, but it has proved to be much harder to go so far as to identify the impact of the bill on sexual equality. I think I've done quite well with the purpose of this case. I am quite convinced that we will achieve positive changes with this matter, that we will reach many. I believe our tax system should send out the message that we appreciate all the work being done for the greater benefit of volunteers and even paid staff around the country all day. I'm also going to say that although we're taking a rather big step with this today, I think this case will possibly open the eyes of many people to the very little we've actually done to this. Thus, this may be the first step in many of the steps that we may take. I'm sure we'll learn something from the act of the law, if the bill is approved, in the coming years that may lead to further implementation, and there's nothing wrong with that. It's just the most natural thing. But it says in this matter that we need to come together here at the council and send out a very clear message to all those involved in the work being covered in this matter. I suggest that the case be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee following the discussion and through 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u139	Madam President. V.E.G. Minister here has provided an interesting bill involved in a tax-based impulse for legislators working for the entire public. These persons have long waited for a more potent improvement in their function, most likely resulting from the changes proposed here. (b) Why is it vital that we do what is right in God's eyes? ..... Who agrees with this definition of being a work that is considered to be a public interest. There are a lot of them, but I want to kill my foot off on a specific stage in III. a section on the alteration of the values tax laws involved in one of the things under the greater good, i.e. A sports job. Today, members of the international community are endeavoring to improve their facilities for sports and social activities. I mention in this multi - use house, sometimes called a laundromat, a home used for recreation both older and younger. Some efforts have been made to get these houses into cooperation between partners and partners, sports partners, and these groups together. A post-improvement tax can't reach such projects if local communities have anything to do with it. Is that not correct? Eight. jobs at a construction site are taken out of 60%. Is that not correct, too, that there can never be a higher proportion? According to the bill, this is just a follow-up from the staff, and I'm asking a minister, and he's actually done a very thorough answer, and he's made a good impression that this is just his staff, it's not the material team. I am quite busy looking to public health, health benefits, and the equations on the situation of people who live outside the country. [[The president calls.]] Only small amounts are available to these laundromats and multiuse houses. Is it not reason and does not consider a minister to be able to frame this in some way in order for small rural areas to set up a situation like this? [[The president calls.]] The contest is tough in the sports world. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u140	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u141	A respectable president. Truly, I am a great sponsor for building a lacrosse house or a covered gymnasium, and actually, I think that if we took out the capital area and maybe only looked beyond the capital area and were to pull a ring that cut off the Rhines, except for Whoville, and even a year's city, up to Ak Arane, and back to the Gulf once again, around the capital area, and we would think the soccer houses in this area, I'll allow myself to doubt that we can find another place in the world where the denseness of soccer field is equal. It doesn't come about by nothing. This is because we live in the north, and we have had a great need to build many of such structures. However, during the past two decades there has been a tremendous improvement in this regard. If we want to go beyond what is listed here, we're just in the face of questions such as shock. A senator came in. I may not have felt that clearly in his case, but here we need to answer: Are we trying to support our rural society in building such buildings or are we going to try to support the budget that is going to be involved in such a house? We have an example that the budget has taken on itself to build such structures, but in general it is responsible for some sort of contract with the rural society involved in renting a facility for youths and children in the local community, so that they have some secure farms, etc. That's a very valid question. But I think if we're going to get into this further, into the workers' construction, we're going to have to go through more than a lacrosse house or an athlete's building. We need to examine the other social status that is important. [[The president calls.]] Let us not forget that we even have a religious function underneath. [[The president calls.]] Then we must answer what is to be said about churches and other matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u142	Thank you very much. The minister's answer was to show him that these covered houses have made a difference in our success in sports, not just in soccer. I may think it's the issue of Caesar's beard, but it may be a little bit easier to talk about whether it's the locals or society that's supposed to be involved and whether they're being helped. I think it's about our precious wealth that lives in youth and how we cultivate and produce that wealth. But all of that. I wanted to kill here on another point. It is the bill of a social organization that has been submitted repeatedly, last year, and was dismissed or referred to by the government after 2rd. The Company didn't vote on that proposal, and one of the head of the Economic and Business Committee agreed that the bill would soon return to the council for approval. This, of course, is a universal law code on a group of members and is a full list of how it should be implemented. And I'm going to ask the minister, "What is the situation?" What is the position of this bill? Is the government unable to provide a comprehensive Community legislation for the greater good, and is the government going to make the changes presented in this bill? Is it a minister's opinion that total legislation is unnecessary in this field, or is this bill, in particular, going to favor the sentence of a total law?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u143	A respectable president. I just want to say the word. A senator on what purpose we are to work here when referring to youth service, sports society, and other comparable activities. I have been directly involved in working on such matters, both as the head of a social group and as one of the organizational committees in my home, planning and knowing them all well, both as a professional and as a parent, and as a member of the community. So that, of course, is the major goal, and it is also right in the middle of nowhere. A senator that the construction of the workers has had a tremendous positive effect on our progress in recent years and has made great progress. With regard to the bill referred to and brought to the council, I suppose it came to the council more than once, and there was a heated dispute over that matter. I thought it would be an improvement to finish that job. The matter rests with the travel, industrial, and innovation minister, and I'm not sure if it's on the Constitution. I would have thought it was there, but I'm told here from the Hall that it isn't, but it would have been for progress. But the last time I discussed this with the minister, she was a little exhausted from her dealings with the council. She had brought it back repeatedly and had always got it back in her head. There would be progress in completing that matter. But let us not forget that the matter does nothing but create a setting of activity, completing all the formalities, making decisions, who can commit those organizations that happen, etc. [[The president calls.]] That would certainly be progress. However, this matter can be very independent of these changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u144	Madam President. V.E.G. A minister of finance recommends a fine language, a very good language that has a long provincial approach. Minister mentioned. There is reason to thank those who have engaged in that work, such as that of men. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson and, of course, a lot more. It is a very positive step here. But I'm asking the highest. Minister: How does he see it as a definition of what companies are considered for the greater good? V.E.G. A minister mentioned that this would be more defined later. Now there are very different things people think are for the greater good and what they don't, I don't talk about in these imaginary political times. Is there a danger that an organization that is really in a political fight might fall under that issue? To illustrate: The environment and the highest is discussed. A minister, in fact, mentioned land healing and forestry. I think that everyone can agree that land transplants and forestry are desirable, but not everyone agrees that it is desirable to shovel in a ditch, can even count it as unnecessary and much better to plant in that country. Another example: Would an organization name them and say that the members of the Council, which claimed to be well treated with government funds, are at the same level as an organization that is fighting for increased expenses in some area? Or an organization that is fighting for people who go their way in a family car, are ensuring their safety and that they make their way, having the rights of an organization that, in the name of environmental protection, would be fighting the family car traffic?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u145	A respectable president. It's a big question, and of course it's important that we deal with it in this bill, even though we leave a little more details on the Regulation. We are considering the reasons why we resort to the tax relics. We are, for example. access to the income tax laws and, as is explained in the report on the terms of the public good, can lead all to the fact that the work being done here is not being done for the benefit of those in it or that those who are social workers have the purpose of obtaining it personally but are actually benefiting from the work to improve society. There may be other issues of opinion, such as why. A senator mentioned whether the recovery of wetlands is by shoveling in a ditch or other cases, as he did in his case. What we are primarily looking at may not be the different people's interests but what we are indiscriminately agreeing on and conforming to terms such as humanitarian and euthanasia. I hope there's not a lot of disagreement there. Youth and cultural activities, including sports, as stated in Genesis. g., doesn't require a very deep, more detailed analysis. [[The president calls.]] I don't think there's another answer in itself. In time, we may be able to agree on whether certain activities we imagine fit in with the law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u146	Madam President. I agree with the highest. Minister that things we generally call charity are hardly controversial, i.e. where there are groups being strengthened, some causes, people who are e.g. poverty, sickness, or something like that, relief forces, and so on. But because we're talking about a job for the public good, I just reiterate what I mentioned earlier that people's understanding of what is considered for the greater good is very different. There are other examples, e.g. I'm sure there are some who believe that fighting for an entirely new constitution, the rejection of the Constitution, would be very public and perhaps most important. Should such an organization, then, be supported? Mostly, I wonder, Madam President, if there is any danger that the issues that are represented by the system each time, in grace, as it were, should be passed over others. Problems may be similar political, but is there a danger that the system may choose to award the issues of today's era that rule out others?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u147	A respectable president. I want to make it clear that 1st paragraph. The bill is listed as being of the public interest by the number, in the a◯g team, and I briefly traced it to my case earlier. However, I did not believe that it was in accordance with the law's purpose to cover a unique number in the community, which merely aims to work for political interests. I wouldn't think that would be in harmony with the main purpose of the law. This is in detail in the report. It highlights a number of factors that are relevant to the definition of the common good. We're here with a coverage that brings it up to a definition of the term, based on the language categories that fit into 1. g., have a key translation. In other words, it is noted that the legal bodies are abdicated from the tax obligations discussed in Article 2. today's income taxes, and they have a home if they spend their profits solely on public goods and have it as their sole goal in accordance with their approval, according to Article 4. income taxation. This is followed by a little more details. [[The president calls.]] It's hard to go deeper into these issues here in opposition to what I thought was a struggle. A senator makes some important comments that need to be kept in mind. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u148	V.E.G. President. We are here in 1st. bill of changing various tax laws and fees to the tax-employment incentives for taxpayers working for the greater good. I want to start by thanking the highest. The financial and financial secretary for the history, he was very careful with the suggestions contained in this bill. I didn't mean to come up here, a respectable president, for a long talk, but I think the bill we're dealing with here is a very important step for the important volunteer work to the public good in the country. It is recognized that such activity rests so much. Over the years, there have been a number of Parliamentary cases that have contained some of the suggestions shown in this bill. So I'd like to review, because there's not a personal objective article in this bandormi, the task of the staff as the highest. A minister ordered, and he came on in his story. The suggestions found in the bill well reflect these goals. That is why I will briefly review the basic points. First, the task force was to cover the taxable environment of the third sector with the goal of strengthening the taxable environment in which they live. Second, to help with what is known, e.g. In our neighboring countries. Reports can be found right back to 2004 on this factor, i.e. compared to a tax environment. It'll even come. reports from the time that European charity companies, as it was stated, have some problems with the tax environment than with comparable societies in the control countries. Third, to provide suggestions for changing laws that apply to the taxation of the activity that falls into the third sector or culture. Fourth, the proposal for change is to promote and strengthen the important work being done by thousands of volunteers throughout the country. I think, more dignified President, that the suggestions we're looking at here and the changes in various tax laws we find in the bill are in line with these objectives and the report made by the staff. But I'd like to introduce one thing to the highest level. Minister of the Committee to Reservation. There has been a known way of reimbursement of the cost tax from work at the site of construction and is in line with the current provisional principle on counter-important measures adopted here at the General Assembly in spring due to Covid-19, about 100% reimbursement of the valuable tax, which is suggested here that the directive as stated in the bill will not be valid until January 1, 2022. V.E.G. A minister gave a bill here just a few minutes ago to the extension of this law by 100% reimbursement. In fact, the service group proposed a reimbursement of part of the developed costs to a degree that met with precise conditions. It should be acknowledged, however, that there would likely be more complex devices and even more than the 2 billion, over 2.1 billion funded in next year's budget. That's 2. The bill is a new bill that has a view of individuals being able or permitted to withdraw from their tax revenues and contributions to legislators who are involved in the public welfare work. I believe, most respectable president, that this new saying, this law, will make the most of the public good news. Then I'd like to refer it to the Committee to review well-declared public good records. That was evident in the answers to the question. paritaprevir Brjánsson and the highest. Minister that we have been offered here several times a bill on the overall social welfare laws and I think it would be a great improvement if we were to finish it. I believe the Minister will offer it. It was dismissed, and the person being present is responsible for this, since the entire sports movement was opposed to agreeing with these laws because they have reasons for agreeing with international legislation and regulations and special sports laws, etc., I'm not going to go through that. The project was, then, that the minister would take a conversation with the athlete and find a solution and bring it back into the council that I believe can be made. Therefore, I refer to the Committee to consider carefully the use of public good records. It is an important prerequisite for such catalysts to be followed, and those making such contributions can benefit from the authority laid down. The bill refers to Miss VII's rules. section of the Treaty on the PES Protocol with cross-border activities and values as appropriate. So it just exists that the bill that I refer to the overall law for the public good news should not necessarily be an obstacle to such a public gospel. But I wanted to come up first and foremost, a respectable president, and thank you to the highest degree. Financial and economic ministers for leading the situation this way, ordering a team of workers to eventually lead to the bill we see here. It was initiative that may lead to that, if we can accept the bill, to take a potentially larger step than has ever been achieved before. There is also the expansion of public good work in the country and recognition, perhaps most important in all of this, of the volunteer work and the support of all the work the public community is doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u149	Madam President. This is followed by the report of the work group discussed here, set up by the secretary of finance on April 1, 2018, and was aimed at reviewing the tax environment of the business that fell under the third sector with the goal of strengthening it. I'd like to agree with what was presented in the Supreme Case. Secretary of finance, of course, that it is urgent that this case be resolved because it is a good thing, but if I had chosen to have brought this issue forward earlier. He would have had a chance. But the third sector, as it is called here, is very important in our society, and volunteers provide valuable employment for society. I think we can all agree on that. Actually, the government has relied on volunteers in the various tasks, such as. As far as the rescue forces are concerned. So here it is that the timely adjustments in the environment of the public good news organization are being made in this bill. The changes will no doubt have a positive effect on this third sector in its important work to the well - being of the public in the country. So the matter is nationally important, as it were. I am convinced that the change will be positive and beneficial for the whole community. To make good use of the tax system in this way, to increase economic incentives for donors and contributions for public welfare, there is the responsibility to contribute to the increased, social responsibilities of companies and individuals in this regard. I find that enjoyable, for certainly many companies could look more to their social responsibilities. It can be said that with the present arrangement, a government fund actually provided the burden of challenging charity to the public good - as odd as it is, it is just that - all of which is always on the shoulders of volunteers. The bill also includes recognition of the important role that communities play in their public welfare in New York City and the unselfish work that is done more often than not performed by volunteers under difficult circumstances. An recognition of the social value - these are natural social value, Mr. President, it is truly unique to have such powerful volunteers as such. The rescue forces on which we rely absolutely if the weather is severe, and in disasters and such. This is, to say, an important form of recognition, and that, of course, is very positive. This is recognition of these social values that result from this unselfish work of the many volunteers who work for the general public in the country. In addition, there is also recognition of the good work required to carry out social important factors that are also based on voluntary work. Increased tax incentives to promote financial support for public welfare do not come in particular to smaller communities and organisations that make most of their money on individual and business profits. The same can be said of an exception to paying for an inheritance tax from gifts to those who work for the greater good. It's very important. For the organisations that have and run real estates in their activities, the regulations involved are income tax and value tax from work at the construction site are very important, the restoration and maintenance of housing a high cost in their operations, as we know it, and the importance that this does not weigh the work any further than necessary. The only part I would like to stop at the end of the return of a worthwhile tax from a building or a reimbursement. It is certainly clear that lawgivers working for the public good will be able to request 60% of reimbursement tax from the work force. I think it's both fair and important to go further as far as it goes. There is an increasing awareness in society regarding neglect of the maintenance of housing and the serious problems associated with it, and we know it about molds and other factors, can be devastating. That's why maintenance is very important. If it is lacking, it can simply threaten the safety and health of those living there. We know it, it's been discussed here, and there's a lot to talk about in the community today. Additional requirements include e.g. prepared for quality, safety and bioavailability of housing for the public. It is important to support the enterprises that are the most based on volunteers, as mentioned, that they are successful in maintaining their new facilities. So it is important that there is a window, if it can be said, in the law on cost taxes, so a community organization for the greater good, who have only a new home, can apply for a full reimbursement of credit due to new building and maintenance of housing, both working and shopping. I'll find out a little bit later. Eight. The bill suggests that a reimbursement of 60% of the paid non-employment tax from work at the construction site, construction, maintenance, or reimbursement of activities entirely owned by citizens working for the greater good of the public, should be met by the more relevant conditions. Implementing regulations on worthy taxation, No. 50/1988, covering temporary privileges for reimbursement of cost tax on building projects, it is also permitted to request reimburse the value tax of services due to design or monitoring the construction of such structures. An article with the bill, in the logs, refers to the b-joins 7. track No. 25/2020, in an explanation of 8 pars. The bill. It involves not only construction work at a construction site but also construction projects, maintenance, or reform of monuments, as well as design and monitoring. In view of such costs, the simple and natural value of a work tax in designing and monitoring of a building fell under the same rule as that of other workers built for public goods. In addition to this, it can be noted that to support the public good work it was not only reasonable but also normal that the required reimbursement was also due to the purchase of goods, i.e. shopping, even as it was bought. This would be in full agreement with the purpose of the bill and that those who agree with the law can neither take advantage of legal tax from purchased goods nor purchase services. Using the same perspective, it can also be noted that the preferred reimbursement of a value tax would be used in this way for the entire product instead of reaching only 60% of it, as expected Comments on the matter in the consultation press show that more people need to be treated with the need to take into account that groups are often paid, not on a single payment, but, rather, divided into payments each month. I think a lot of people know this, they support an organization; partners, rescue teams, etc. With monthly donations and frequent credit cards, it is a relatively convenient way to strengthen a good subject. Therefore, it is unfortunate for those who want to achieve this and to support the activities of their public welfare partner in a regular way, as mentioned, to be indiscriminate, compared with those who wish to make such donations occasionally or gifts. This is something that the committee must carefully review. It has to be assumed that when each person's strength is in the range of 10,000,350,000 k. A total of almanac years are given to the relevant tax deduction to meet other conditions. The work of the bill needs to be explained further to me. This could, e.g. the text of the Law was adjusted to be both taken out and applied to a minimum of 10,000 times at the beginning of the arrangement. and up to a maximum of 350,000. In the almanac, anal. I think it's very important that the committee carefully reviews this because there are so many who choose this arrangement. It is easier for people to support important activities in this way, these monthly donations, and, of course, the same rules are valid because they vary in each donation. This is a legal arrangement that naturally contributes to the support that most people want to support in this vital work that goes with many public community members, and really everyone. In that case, technical factors must not prevent people from being able to support these activities. However, the view has been made in this issue that free organizations working for prowess are also defined by activity for the public good. It's been shown in the discussion, and I took it for granted. Gunnlaugsson This is a very important case. These include transport safety organisations, drug use prevention, suicide prevention, etc. Such partners are very important in our society, and they rely on the well - meaning will of the public, businesses and various funds and government. It may be reasoned that such an organization will fall well on the grounds of the law. This is also one of the things the committee should consider, and it is very important to do so, since this association operates with social goals and has the main objective of working to improve the public and the community. I would like to finally say this, Mr. President, that it is normal and important that the items I have mentioned here be specifically discussed with the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-12-02-30.u150	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to correct the change in social security law, No. 100/2007, and Social Services Act, No. 99/2007, with subsequent changes. The main focus of the bill is the change in the rules of calculating specific replacements due to the implementation of disability and rehabilitation of donors. The 2019 budget set out to provide 4 billion dollars. contributes to the proposed global social security changes in order to improve the quality of disability. With law No. 97/209, the change in social support and social security law laws, the first steps were set towards the restoration of social security by disability, which included the law. Reduction in the impact of micro-energy transplant recipients on calculation of specific substitutions due to extensions in order to account for only 65% of the donor's earnings in terms of losing their fill instead of 100% previously, as well as reducing the impact of age-related microenergy supplementation in the calculation of the supplements. It was so called in return a dollar that the law reduced the amount of money. The cost of this change is 2.9 billion. This makes it impregnable to 1.1 billion. ... ofthecharitance. Is it intended with a bill to ensure that the funds will be permanently useful to the group of microenergy and rehabilitation centres which have been cut off? In the bill this it is assumed that the impacts of income insurance will be reduced in terms of the disability and rehabilitation of donors. Twenty-two. Law on social security, when calculating specific updates due to implementation, by Count 9. Law on social assistance. In accordance with local laws, income insurance is considered to be fully payable on the calculation of the supplements, but the bill suggests that only 95% of the total money insurance is considered to be 100% in the interest of a pensioner. Therefore, it is expected that there will be continued efforts to reduce the impact of social security benefits on the decision made by some special replacements due to implementation. If the bill to the law, it will result in the provision of the microenergy and rehabilitation donors who receive the remuneration will be substantially increased and the average amount of compensation will increase most in the income-priceding group. In this way, calculations show that the most efficient micro-energy and rehabilitation centres will receive 7,980. monthly increase beyond the estimated 3.6% of overall increase in social security benefits in the year 2021. This will result in an overall improvement in social security and social support to the most incomeless pensioners of 19,700 dollars. an increase of 6.1% at the next year and monthly. Thus, the largest of the exchange funds will be spent to improve the favour of the largest energy - and - rehabilitation group of microsurgents and ensure that those who have no other income than social security benefits will receive considerable compensation. As a result, calculation shows that the average increase in all pensioners will be nearly 7,000 dollars. per month. At that time, about 35% of all microenergy and rehabilitation workers will have a maximum increase of nearly 8,000. per month. These increases are in addition to the 3.6% higher improvement expected in next year's budget. About half of the pensioners who get higher improvements after the change earn less than 10,000 dollars. every month, 667 million dollars. or 56.5% of the amount expected to follow this bill will flow to this most efficient group. The change will also result in an increase in the rate of change from 13,473 to 14,079 or about 642 in pensional patients receiving special supplementation. Is also important to keep a higher proportion of those who receive special compensation are women and is the proportion of women who will receive higher pay by 63% versus 37% men. Thus, a total of 8,726 women and 5,127 men will receive higher pay from social security as a law as a bill. A respectable president. I've traced it here mainly to the bill on this subject and to the change in social assistance laws that are expected to be established right away at the next year's. In addition to what has already been stated, it is suggested that by 2020, disability and rehabilitation will be paid in December and that it be prescribed in a new set of temporary laws on social security. It is assumed that the microenergy and rehabilitation pensioners who have in the current year had the right to pay the disability pensions, in accordance with national insurance laws, to accident biofuels, under social insurance insurance laws, or rehabilitation pensions, under social assistance laws, receive special payment as a student of 50,000 bucks. If the bill is legal, more than 21,400 microenergy and rehabilitation pensioners will receive their monotherapy. They suggest that those who have been paid by the insurance agency for the entire month of the year receive full payment, while the amount of deposit paid to those who have been paid a year will be in proportion to the number of months of the year that the person has had the right to pay. Also, in view of the special circumstances in this pandemic, it is suggested that these only be tax free and thus not be considered a pensioner's income, thus not leading to a decrease in other payments, such as housing benefits. This is in harmony with the previous monopolitan pay for pensioners in 2020 that this government has promoted. Is the bill assumed that the government's insurance agency will pay this fee this month in December. A respectable president. I've done a big thing about the material changes involved in this bill, and I'm going to get all micro- and-replacement pensioners to the good, especially those with the lowest income. In addition, in the bill it is expected that the revenue target should be adjusted at the time of the year. 2 mg. Count 9. a law on social assistance will be updated in the law, but these criteria increased on January 1, 2020, and are now 255,834 k. a month for those pensioners who live with others and 321,678 k. in a month for those who live alone. The budget of the income markets under the law has been updated by a Regulation, but it seems more clearly that there has been an updated amount of money in Article 9. The law. It is also correct to expect a 3.6% rise in the revenue criteria since January 1, 2021 according to the bill for next year's budget. According to this plan, money from income criteria will be 265,044k. a month before the pensioners who live with others and at 333,258 K. in a month for those who live alone. A respectable president. Finally, I would like to encourage the council to settle this important matter quickly and carefully so that those who receive the microenergy or rehabilitation money from social insurance will already receive the most pay-to-be-exploited terms in this bill and also ensure that the changes proposed to the rules of the calculation of the specific reforms due to forward, and will be used most of the income-employed biographers, will be immediately implemented at the next month's meeting. A respectable president. After this discussion, I suggest that a discussion be referred to. The welfare committee.
