ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u1	Advertisers are set aside to conclude the discussion on the 2nd part of the program, perhaps even more, if things are going well and they could be at dinnertime. They will be further proclaimed as they get closer and with reasonable notice.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u2	V.E.G. President. In the past week, an agent of children and a group of young government officials handed the conclusions of a juvenile council held in November. A baby council has now become a permanent part of life. This was established by law, and it must be conducted every two years to include children and young people from all over the country. The government's emphasis on the increasing influence of young people is being displayed in many places, and today I want to draw your attention to a major convention that was also held in November. That assembly had the subscription Children and Transport. There is news, since this sort of meeting has not been held before. Although children are the major users of the transport system, there is no mention of them in the current transport program and only in the young. Children travel with cars, children fly, children cycle, children walk, children sail, and children travel by bus. Their viewpoints need to be like that of others. Thus, one of the improvements was to put children and transport into a transport program. The benefits of driving children are in many ways different from the interests of older ones as well as their behavior in traffic. We could use the help of children, their opinions, and their ideas to reflect on those who know the system today, as well as future users. The European Court of Auditors has made progress in preparing transport programmes. Controversy with people of all ages throughout the country is important in harmony with viewpoints. V.E.G. President. The government's first investment package will produce 1,000 jobs for the next few years as a result of transport construction projects, and this will result in an increase in government property. And note that this is all out of the current transport programme. We're very interested, and we're doing a lot of work. It is our responsibility to have a young person involved. They need to live by our decisions into the future. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u3	A respectable president. During the last few days, many companies have decided to reimburse the support they had received by the part - help route. In my mind, this shows the importance of public and political maintenance as well as the power of public discussion. Today, several government ministers have declared that there will be narrower conditions when the way is extended. That's been happening since the beginning of the month. It is important to remember that the partial improvement method is a way to protect employees and their recruitment relationship with the employer. Yesterday, the World Health Committee received a presentation on the top of the bill's main points. Social Affairs Ministers on this subject are severely restricted to all the factors discussed in the past few days and more. So I'm a little surprised. The head of the welfare committee claims this, including on Facebook, that the majority of the members of the council are not interested in deciding what to do on the way. On the contrary, the company may take advantage of the situation to get money out of a government fund. The conditions set there are far worse to walk than the prime minister will. Law code can't be repeated unless it's involuntary. The partial improvement process was performed in a relatively open way so that the recruitment relationship could be protected by most people. At that time, the duration of this situation did not exist. This has, in some respects, become clearer, yet there is still considerable uncertainty. Sadly, many will lose their jobs. Government measures, such as innovation, will take a great deal of importance in saving jobs and in saving jobs by means of the partial and other measures by year. [[The president calls.]] The conflicting conditions towards enterprises will ensure that money cannot be drawn from a government fund. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u4	Mr. President. Food security is a term that many are familiar with, especially in discussions about epidemics and natural disasters, a real constant threat, as we feel these weeks. The offer of food will not be left to the growing world in the next few decades. Transport of food from world angles increases the rise in carbon tracks and increases yields relative to the consumption of food as near as possible to the production site. To this end, it is our duty to look for all ways to increase the sustainability of the country in terms of food production and thereby provide security for the nation and, of course, to reduce the negative climate impacts as far as possible. One thing we can do and should do to achieve these goals, i.e. improving food security and, especially, reducing negative climate impacts, is being met by vegetarian farmers about electrical transport prices. Mr. President. We've so far focused on traditional fishing and agriculture in these waters, but I think we should look at more angles, like, e.g. to have more of the form of algae than it is currently. From it, oil, nutritious food for humans, animals, and good food can be produced. The Blue Forest Frontier Government sent senators a food security report yesterday. It encourages the government and all the people of the land to take hold of the nation's food security. It even says, by permission of the president: THE European Commission of the Blue Forest wants to challenge the government to ensure for the future that fundamental factors are most important to the nation's food security. These include land ownership, conservation of breeding land, toll protection as well as general knowledge and recognition of the rightness of different types of land for different land uses, and especially food production. [...] Food production, including food production, has to be increased. by supporting climatic, horticultural, and agricultural development. The use of Icelandic grain is highly malnourished in farms and farms. There's a great opportunity to use clean energy and water resources to produce quality food and good flowers. Mr. President. I think all of us can truly agree with these words of the Blue Forest government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u5	Mr. President. The man who stands here and we in Correction has always said that we are making the way of all the good things of the government in these difficult times, and we have been able to do so. It is much worse for us to see how firm our governmental forces are in rejecting all our proposals in the woodland, and, indeed, the rest of the opposition, that it seems usually without paying any attention to their advantages and weaknesses. That's a great poem for the cohesion on a sledgehammer. General Assembly, especially in view of the emphasis laid on the role of the Parliament in the government covenant. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ An unusual situation calls for adjustments in practice, open management, transparency, and respect for tasks. It is the will of the classes that are now involved in government cooperation and the promotion of the Generals to a new approach to the work in support of the general public in the country, especially by giving intensive support to the General Assembly and increasing its effectiveness. Never will there be too many references to the magnitude of the difference between words and wealth. That was certainly said in November 2017, but if circumstances were unusual, what can be said about the situation today? Mr. President. A third U.S. government pack of measures was introduced on April 28th. Today, two weeks later, there is no bill for the council to work with, and that is mildest, especially in view of the assurances made there that people are already doing their work. Now it is discovered that the government wants to set certain conditions for its assistance. [[The president calls.]] What conditions, then, will be set in the back of those who follow this course? This is not a good work, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u6	Mr. President. While the result has been that a stationary company has taken money for financial gains, none of which have seen and returned. I'd like to mention some firms that share the common public service, i.e. one stopped and committed business in the north gave it to its store and two business companies in Reykjavík. One of them is Hagar's salary and the salary of the director's committee, in which breaking the employment relationship with two of them costs as much as hiring 20 to 3030 nurses for a year. The fourth largest shareholder in that company is the pension fund. It says in the fund's tenure policy that it is a fund's estimate that the work programme should be initiated at the discretion of the managers and others. you are looking at the size and scope of the business and the general worksheets offered in the environment in which companies work. So many words, and I ask, Mr. President, where are the heads of the pension fund in these companies? Where are they and what is the responsibility of these directors? They may want to come out and tell them why the salary of the executives in this particular company is in this way, at the cost of a year's salary of 20 to 30 nurses to cancel contracts with them? The taste of the week, Mr. President, has the president of a firm called Festival. He was like a bunch of other cattle with a nerd in a common cake of the country and returned to his father. And what did he say later? He said that he was not proud to drive into a ditch. But it's not about pride, Mr. Chief. It's about respect, honesty and honesty and it doesn't exist there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u7	A respectable president. Yes, the discussion might be more specific. Sometimes you feel like a word. The secretary of finance, which he recommended at the beginning of this economic operation, that it would be better to do more than less, to be a bit of reverse, and to the government having the power to do forever, but less than more. The lack of employment is beginning to manifest itself, and it is our duty here to respond to it quickly and well, for it is a terrible terror. At times, you may feel that your understanding of this problem might be even deeper. Even in the most unlikely and unfortunate places, you face certain misunderstandings as to what unemployment means. You can even hear the jokes of the most unfortunate party that there is a pay here for not doing anything as if it was some form of idle compensation rather than unemployment. However, I would like to use this opportunity, Mr. President, to draw out what has been successful in this work and for a reason to celebrate. It was as if yesterday's proposal was adopted by our representatives on the Economic and Business Committee, Oddný G. Harðardóttir Daughter, that families that need to rely on basic non-employment benefits get higher pay from each child, i.e. They increase by 6% instead of 4% of basic non-employment improvements. As a result, at the end of the year 17,370 won't be allowed. per month with each child instead of 11,580K. Of course, we as officers feel that we need to do much better, that the house's income has to be treated much better, but we are glad that the administrative part has agreed to our proposal rather than put her to sleep and try to make her its own. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's how we're supposed to work. That's how the public, Mr President, wants us to win.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u8	Madam President. I'm gonna read here, with permission from the President, a book I sent to the welfare committee yesterday. ▪ An economist suggested that a welfare committee transport a bill to see if operators are benefiting from the government's subsidies, which could pay off interest or buy shares while they were using government aid. So I'll shoot in here, Mr. President, that the bill is not meant to address anything else, thinking to deal with the obvious failures of the law as soon as possible. Then I'll continue, with President's permission: The government does not protect public funds to support businesses who use funds to pay interest or other profits to their owners. In unprecedented economic distress, such measures are completely devastating. The bill of the director is essential to ensuring the legal right of the government of companies involved in such activities and that it would have been an important part of maintaining solidarity in the community by means of the instruments involved. The majority of the Committee chooses to resist the proposal of the Chairman with the argument that a comparable bill was to be expected from the social and child - care minister. However, this bill is not to be expected during the treatment of Congress until the end of the week and will not be effective until the next month's meeting. The position of the majority ensures that companies who are abusing or planning to misuse the part-change process will have considerably longer than that. Signed by this process, they lament and express deep disappointments by the practice of the majority of welfare committees. I add at the end that it would have been easy to agree with the bill, thus ensuring that the government's legal right to businesses immediately, even though a minister has another more thorough case that will go further. It wasn't either /or, we could've both done it. As a result, I find that the conclusion of the majority of my life is amazing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u9	A respectable president. According to recent numbers, 2,519 people have been on the waiting list for three months or more. Today, a total of 4,500 people are on the list. The fact is that those waiting there are waiting for cartilage breaks, cataract surgery, replacement operations, and waiting, and waiting. But our hypocrisy does not go against one team. At the same time as we're pumping billions, not tens of millions, but hundreds of billions of dollars into a private company to save them, we say: No, we must not use a private company to shorten a waiting list. We put 400 million in the media, private media, but 400 million, e.g. of the Viðum of the Year, to do 400 operations. No, the subject can rather be sent to Sweden or other, and there are 400 operations for 1.2 billion. What righteousness is there in it? Why is the situation still so urgent today? It's pretty serious to have to hang out on a waiting list, a hot-stealing pain pill, make family and friends watch it. What, then, are we doing? Yes, we're producing micromanagements on the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u10	A respectable president. Today is the International Day of Nurses. So I want to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate nurses on the day. I must also thank them for their essential contributions to the community, for their health and welfare. You can see that nurses are essential to the welfare of a community. For today's occasion, I'd like to send a host to the nurses. Sadly, this large group of women enjoys the injustice of having no contract in the middle of a pandemic. This is injustice, Mr. President. Piratar and I have regularly studied society's values for the priorities of the State, and it has been seen year after year that people place the most emphasis on good health, well - funded, and effective health systems. A basic premise for good health care is the nurse's quality and good work status. Nurses are basic criteria for good health. Nurses have watched for us through this pandemic, and nurses have watched us through a sour and sweet season, Mr. President. In spite of this, the Landspians have had to live with their high standards year after year. In spite of this, our health system has been funded year after year. And in spite of this, we still have a secretary of finance who won't negotiate with nurses a year from now on - and still refuses to do it. We live in times that require social self - examination. We now have the opportunity as a community to look closely in the mirror and ask ourselves, " Is society's value reflecting real value, whether this is the society we want to be for the future, whether we have strayed from our values, or is it true that our government reflects the true values and values of the nations? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u11	A respectable president. The economic situation we all know, of course, and the crisis we are facing is not just deep but, rather, of course, a past crisis and the measures needed in 2008. Acute tourism is a major project, one of the largest, and it is important to respond with a safe response to general transparent measures where the assumptions need to be businessual. At the same time, of course, unemployment is in historical places. One thing that governments can do and should do is provide progressive action with the aim of raising demand within the country. In recent years, international travel has become apparent. Visits to foreign countries will likely be few and none. This has a specific opportunity in the land in the troubled situation that exists. The government has presented the procedure for sending all 18 and over 5,000 cells. Traveller's check. It's a good procedure, but it's a little weak. I think she's studying within 0.2% of the entire article, and that's if everyone uses this check. The travel service needs a lot of injections, and when it turns out that the country will not be able to travel abroad for the summer, it could and should have been done with much greater force in the general procedure to encourage the move in the country and make it possible for the family to do so. This operation would have been bigger and more powerful, since it can start more people, thus supporting our tourism, supporting our job life, supporting our settlements and families, contributing to the production of good Icelandic tourists for the people of the country. It could be a good and general operation for all of us, the whole nation, and at the same time an opportunity to introduce Icelandic tourism to the nation. [[The president calls.]] I wondered, " Why has this good idea been implemented in this powerless way? ' When a test is tested, the value is 5,000. No more than an ice truck for a family.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u12	V.E.G. President. The more impressive success in the fight with Covid-19, that no infection is detected in the community at home for more days, but not much relief to us Icelanders. The actions under the leadership of the tribe have proved to be effective that has caught attention in many parts of the world. But isolation and unemployment, including Following this procedure, feelings of distress and economic concern are naturally caused in many homes. Reports are of increased consumption of alcohol and other drugs, as well as increased domestic violence, and children are usually vulnerable and vulnerable. In these circumstances, the availability of individuals to seek help is more necessary than ever before. One of the best preventions for children who watch their parents uncontrollably from mind - changing substances and thus destroy their home is to see the parent seek help and change his life - style. Then, however, help must be readily available. The Central Party has proposed a synonym with a health - care minister assigned to order a group of working groups to improve the availability of individuals with addiction problems to treatment options available at the Hospital Hospital Vogi. Over the years, there have been 5,500,600 people on a waiting list. The government's budget is not sufficient to maintain minimum services at the Vagi Hospital and have members of the U.S.A. Try to bridge the gap by e.g. The leprechaun known to the country. Because of the Covid-19 situation, the fairy sale is expected to be electronic and appears to be successful. In fact, the presidents of political parties have agreed to become elves, and they have become a competition for who sells best. I challenge anyone who wishes to support the good, needs and is urgent to buy an elf because addiction is a disease that is not impartial rather than the Covid-19 pandemic. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u13	Mr. President. I'm gonna talk about police and women's union. Officers have been out of contracts for over a year. This is the class that stood in the line of fire after the 2008 economic collapse, as it turned out, and reached the level of ignorance and continued to prevent this from coming to an end. This is the class that has also stood in the line of fire lately in the battle against the virus, along with other important classes. It's the union that comes when we call it, it's the union we don't want to be without when we're in trouble. This is the profession we rely on when all the swimming seems closed. It's the union that's been out of contracts for another year. This is the class that doesn't have the right to strike. Maybe that's why, Mr. President, for which police officers are not getting benefits from their terms or from the heads of their customers' attention. This is the class that deals with more complex and more difficult projects at the same time as the number of active police officers has decreased rather than increased despite increasing population and tourism and projects. Many of them have been well under all conditions for decades. It's a profession that is in the working situation that usually takes the first place and never really knows what it will be like. In many parts of the country, there is one police officer working in a large area and a long way to help. At the same time that there has been a growing risk of a growing internationally organized crime, this class stands out without agreement. In the fall, I gave a bill saying that police officers will recover their strike rights. Mr. President. The time has long come for negotiations with police officers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u14	President. I'd like to introduce to you the Gras under which the Piratars have taken off. This is an opportunity, since those who are familiar with Pirata's internal work would like to be involved in the basic policy, the protection of civil rights, and the increased involvement of the public in matters they care about, and those who want to work on these matters but who may not know where to begin. It is always this way with voluntary movements, such as Pirantars and probably all political parties, that those who know the work, any tasks are available, those who have the knowledge and want to share it and those who want to participate, want to learn, want to want to work. That's what the Grasbian is. Those who know Kicker, kick things off, recognize the thing. If we wait, Mr. President, we'll hook up with those who have a job, have some product, but need funding to start off with it, and those who want the product, and are willing to pay. This is how the radiator works for grass - based work. Those who are interested in sharing in the work I have started here, which is General 101, the work in the spirit of basic policy, can go to x.piratar.is, where they open pages where Pirantar is on top of the left, an overview below, etc. The bottom is a hand against the ceiling, the Grass subs, and there you can click and log in. This is something most political parties should record. This should be recorded by the union of partners. This is what the United Nations has now done for 20 years, and it is now an all - time effort. Those interested in them can register, since we really associate people with them for social activities and really for good work. This first assignment I've put in here is a course, the 101 General Assembly, a basic convention work, where I'm collecting at least one. Seven interested persons, more are then possible, should be examined. The purpose of the course is to gain a clear understanding of how the Council works for them to be able to carry out or to help members of the Parliament who are doing it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u15	A respectable president. I like others to join with certain joy that it is becoming a significant success in our fight with Covid. And what does that tell us? It tells us to listen to our scientific people. It also tells us that cooperation between individuals, scientists, groups, and nations has never been more important. We realize that in fighting the virus, listening to scientists has been extremely important. Of course, that also applies to other areas. For years scientists have been warning us about climate change, warning us about the environmental pressures we face and the whole world. Therefore, cooperation between nations is of great importance and more importance than ever before. If people think that we are going to continue to talk about international cooperation, about the European Union, the ban here in this hall, defence cooperation, Western cooperation, and the expansion of international cooperation, they go astray. It is my opinion and my opinion that the further the fight against the virus, the more important it is for us to stick together to the importance of international cooperation, democracy, freedom, and open society. This is exactly the time. I especially want to rejoice that the Foreign Ministers of the North have issued a clear message regarding a miserable democratic development in Hungary. In this way, we too are to respond as an open, free, and sovereign nation. We are to be heard, and we are expected to expand our cooperation with other nations in all areas, whether in the environment, in the economy, in the area of democracy, and in the right of human rights. [[The president calls.]] That's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u16	A respectable president. Government policy has been to back up well on gardening, especially because of the positive effects of green work on climate action and the cry for security and sustainability. We're calling for a growing gardening education. Ever since Iceland's agricultural university started a year ago, new policies and arrangements for gardening have been warned of the consequences of learning and working in gardening, I have been told. Those who are involved in the field ministry can have very serious consequences for the study. There are conflicts in the agricultural schools between the school executives, and I'm told that officials have little understanding of criticism that has focused on new policy, the setting of study, and the arrangement. A person's experience is open to people who are employed in gardening and who are studying for staff. There has been a discussion in the garden of Eden that will not be an acceptable option for students of the Gardening School in gardening companies to end school policy that does not match the needs and desires of the industry in this article. Last year, it was happy that 80 years had passed since the start of a gardening program on the smokers in Elfus. Now the task must be taken to ensure intensive training in high school gardening in the womb of gardening in the country of Smokers in Whos. A respectable president. I give my word to all of us, senators and Ministers of Education, to support the development and development of horticultural education in a healthy and fertile environment of Whos making. Countless opportunities for the future lie in the garden of Eden, which is vital to make further use of without further delay in the intensive labor program of the Gardening School of Smoke in Elfia.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u17	Mr. President. It was mentioned earlier in the talk "What Is It? " paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen said that at a meeting of the welfare committee yesterday, the position of the greater part of the Committee would have been described on a case proposed by the chairman. That's wrong. However, it is true that the majority of the committee did not consider any reason to participate in a matter's contributions. The director wanted to contribute for things I mentioned in my talk earlier. It is important to note that in this denial of the greater part, there is no position on the subject. Chairman.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u18	Mr. President. I feel compelled to come up here for a talk. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson here was at the end of the council saying that I had been told in the press and on the Facebook page that there was no one in the greater part to change the law and that it was not true. I haven't said that. So I refer to what I've been saying about this, and I'll tell you about the bill I was trying to get a bang. The welfare committee to transport, by permission of the President: ▪ This bill is just two small regulations. It's simple and ready. We've had it checked by the experts, and it stands, and we could take it to the Hall tomorrow and finish tomorrow. But, unfortunately, there is no one willing to do so on the part of the government, says Helga. She says that the matter will appear in a very Spanish way. It makes me feel so weird. Because this would allow a labour agency to demand reimburse a company and it could be from the day the law takes effect, which must be something we want. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's exactly what it is, Mr. President. The majority did not want to reimburse the workforce from today on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u19	President. I come up here to deal with a word or two. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son, who says I was wrong. I don't quite understand. In my speech, I said that the majority of the committee's wishes to resist the proposal of the president were to be expected from the social and child - care minister. Failure to participate is an attitude. That's an attitude. The majority opposed that the committee would present this particular case with the argument that another matter was coming from the social and child - care minister later. I can't see that I've said the wrong thing, and I'm standing by them and by the booking that will soon appear in the meeting place of the welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u20	A respectable president. I'm here because of the events that were on the welfare committee yesterday that focused on a little special things, that the welfare committee would accept as a whole a senator's case or a president's case. It is said that in part we have rejected what I don't understand because the case of the individual senators does not have to be accepted by the council. We received an expert on these matters, and it was shown that we could certainly bring up this case, each one of us, but it could require a government damage demand, that would not be clear. So I think it's very special to put this up so that we're turning down something when we knew it, getting a presentation on the case from a minister, and it says that we all meet conditions. And there's nothing to say that although this case had been approved yesterday, it would have been approved here at the council today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u21	President. First of all, I feel as if we haven't been at the same meeting. [[Up front.]] Excuse me, I'm talking. There were experts before the committee, and there was nothing to show that if we were to deliver this case and it was to be approved, there would be some damage in the state. Or I was mistaken. A senator? [[Up front.]] No, I didn't understand it that way, I'm saying that. [[The president calls.]] The experts showed up, and that's not how I understood it. But the director may be able to explain this better. I think it's important for me to find out that what the president did was a proposal for a Senate hearing. She suggested that the committee move it to speed up the situation. It is unusual that the committee's committees might have a case to fix faults or mistakes in some legal arrangement. It is unusual for the committee to do this in an effort to speed matters up. Of course, it is clear to all of us that any senator can present a matter of Congress. It wasn't about that. It was a question of whether the committee wanted to deliver this case, and the majority of the committee didn't want it, so simple. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u22	A respectable president. Because of this unprecedented meeting of the welfare committee last night, I just have to say, just as it is, sometimes you might think that you are in some theater of absurdity. It was very simple. The chairman was suggesting that the committee be together to see to stop what was going on with a company. This came in the next bill that the minister was not preparing. It was just to deal with the situation today. To be able to get the case back and forth in the nonsense it did yesterday is a disgrace to us. We on the committee were to stick together, and we have an obligation to make sure that these things do not happen and that they are in their interests as soon as we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u23	Mr. President. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen. It is unusual for the committee to bring short bills to fix what has been done before, especially when a bill has been approved and worked in a very hurry, as was done with the section-improvement bill in its time. Of course, the committee changed matters very much, so it is only natural for the committee to try to correct them. This was shown by the experts for the Committee yesterday, even though this is not part of the case, I want to do so because of the circumstances. þm. Halla Signý Kristunsdóttir did so here, that they not only stressed that the matter would go into the council quickly but would be quickly accepted. [[Up front.]] It is up to us to protect the state funds and try to secure the interest of the taxpayers and citizens of the country, and it is important whether we accept a matter of service to take effect after three weeks or we can accept this matter now and give this warrant now. [[The president calls.]] There is no question, however, that this matter, rather than a minister's case, should we? [[The president calls.]] It didn't show up, and I know it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u24	Madam President. It was so clear that all the time this case was before the committee that I did not agree that the committee would deliver it. That's what I said at every meeting when there were a lot of suspense on this subject. It was all along, and the Ministry is still with its best men, and has made its best counselors to discuss this matter, is ready for a bill, and it was introduced to the Committee yesterday. There were people who assured us that this was a fence for all the baits that have to be fenced up and that they were not drawn up at the beginning. So I believe that the committee is on the right side of this matter under the direction of the minister, not of the chairman, who has naturally destroyed time in a most evil way in the last meetings with lengths of paint and grudging words.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u25	A respectable president. Although we have refused to bring up the matter as a committee, we did not stand in the way of the president's ability to deliver this case, and he can continue. Then I just want to say that last night at the meeting, an expert at work told me that this could possibly cause damage to the state. This was shown in his words, no matter how people understood them. We did not violate this matter. In contrast, we suggested that we together as committees make a statement. The minority rejected it. That's what I'm talking about. We received a presentation on the bill, which had narrower conditions, that would be more effective. We're getting it into the committee for the treatment, and we just thought we should wait for it. A lot of experts had come to that. We are not beinglittled about the other thing. [[The president calls.]] It can be moved especially.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u26	Mr. President. I'm not going to comment on the guest's position at the meeting or what some visitors might have said on the committee meetings. All I've said is that it's wrong what was said in the matter at any time. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen in his work earlier that some position on the matter lies in the fact that a greater proportion of welfare committees did not want to be involved in the move of the president's case. It isn't like that, because the major part is very much continuing to include a much greater matter and is much more detailed and close to the matter, should be submitted as soon as possible, and that the committee should agree that the matter will get out of the committee and come into the chamber.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u27	Mr. President. It is strange to listen to more than part of the discussion. They had run in the media and on social media to express their shock that a company had taken advantage of the part - improvement method that was well - founded and should not have done so. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] When the chairman of a man. The welfare committee and memory sections suggest that the committee itself prevents other established enterprises from making use of this Kingdom power, which leads to more conflict. Councilman down. The welfare committee will appear here, Mr. President, stating that there is a minister in the government who is taking the lead on a Senate Committee. It's the Minister, that's the Commission that will take the lead on the Senate committee in the opinion of the greater part. This is outrageous.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u28	A respectable president. I'm trying to figure out this phrase that's going on. Certainly, a greater proportion of the welfare committee took their stand by refusing to adjust the parting process now and wanting to wait for three weeks. The share - improvement process is now in effect for two months. It has been two months, according to the government, to misuse the partial relief pathway. This has been the case for now for two months, but more part wants to wait for legislation to take effect after three weeks in order to ensure that a company has two months and three weeks to misuse the partial reform pathway. There's an attitude hidden in it, a respectable president. To say something else is just a phrase.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u29	Mr. President. As we know, the part - time improved thinking for hired persons is intended to maintain recruitment relationships, and therefore, it was not under very strict conditions at the beginning to maintain recruitment relations with companies as important as it is. Then it turns out that a successful business is abusing this method. The government's advisers, prime ministers, social ministers, and financial ministers made it clear that this would not be the case. This was illustrated some time ago, and six companies have seen a decent way to return these funds. I don't see that it made a big difference or that under these circumstances and Ministers' declarations that this is going to be changed and conditions taken care of, when the partial reform process is extended, there are now a number of companies and are going to continue to abuse this process. It's just not like that. And when the head of the welfare committee knows that a minister is making a thorough case about this and plans to strike a knight, it's pretty empty. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u30	The president asks for silence in the hall. Silence in the hall. This is not a meeting of the welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u31	A respectable president. There are a number of things that do not seem to fit into what is reported at a meeting of the welfare committee, e.g. that a workaholic has recommended the procedure discussed at the meeting, but at the same time he would say that the State would render a responsibility for harmonization. That's what I read out. paritaprevir The sound of Halla's Signý Kristjánsdóttir, who does not see how people speak there completely in the form of a cross to themselves. What I really want to talk about is time. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson spoke of. It is not a matter of wasting time when a Senate committee reviews the rules of emergency measures for Covid. It is not a waste of time to fix the measures that are abused by companies that the government states agree that it needs to be fixed, but then when it comes to adapting, it is not time to pick it up. We're still waiting. Three weeks after the three operations pack was introduced at a press conference, we're still waiting for the presented prime signs from the same advisers, which are just around the corner with an extraction into the improvement process. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How long are we gonna wait? I think June 1st is optimistic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u32	A respectable president. I had to come upstairs and agree with what I had to say. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson. It is not a waste of time that members of the Parliament take steps to correct a major defect in the government's package of action. It's just not a waste of time at all. On the other hand, I think that the one that drives the most part in this is simply the one who makes this suggestion. That's what counts. That's mine, I got it. There's been this whole operation, and I think it must be the motivation behind this behavior here and now, just like the first day.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u33	A respectable president. This discussion is now as incomprehensible as it was yesterday. I don't understand how we can be arguing about this, because it's very simple. We agree. But the weirdest part of this is that the majority of the committees agree to do what we want to do at some point. What's going on? [[Taken out on: right.]] Let's do this now and don't do it later. They want to do this later and wait for something else, but we don't know what this is going to be. We know what we're going to do now, and we're going to do it. Let's stop it. It's really annoying. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u34	Mr. President. It's quite true. A senator says we're all in the same place because we want to make changes. It was found that conditions were not strict enough, that the companies who carried it would need strict rules. But we do not agree on how to reach that goal. We in the greater part want good work to be done, and the conditions will be strict, and more will be involved, and we have already received a presentation on that subject. It sometimes pays to be careful and not to put forth extra effort. There was nothing to discuss with us on the welfare committee of the Chairman or to consult on the matter. When a committee is dismissed, a great consultation has been made, not some monopoly. It's been the Chairman's solo game. We haven't been in a conversation preparing the language the Chairman proposed, far from there. [[Take it up to three meetings.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u35	Now I think most of the welfare committees have talked about the President's conference board. For this reason, members of a welfare committee, as well as members of the council members in general, will be encouraged to discuss their dealings and settle them at that level, at the council committee, but will not make the entire Assembly Hall a crime scene for it. What is being done on a closed committee meeting is confidential, and it is difficult to echo comments from the committees here into the council chamber, and even the members of the Parliament need to do so. Be careful. In general, the president directs them to members of the regular committees to try to discuss such matters. They believe the President is the right place, not the entire Assembly Hall. Or are we much closer to this issue after this discussion in the hall? President won't see. I don't think it's either the employee there or here in the gym that taking a lot of time for discussion as a matter's nature is more likely to get success in the field, i.e. on the bodies of self-employed members of their professions, as we know.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u36	Mr. President. I have to say, I'm a bit closer on the fact that it's the clean, mature attitude of the greater part here at the council to want to slow down in this matter, not to accept certain rules about who gets the transfer on the part-way. It matters to me, even though I am not a member of a welfare committee. And to be well understood, it was not the government opposition that began this debate over the President's conference board. Rather, it was a member of the government council that began this discussion, in order to be maintained. Of course, it is important that the positions of the greater portion be made in and outside committees at the Assembly Hall. We're all working hard, all trying to help, work time, set priorities for the Covid business, but it's all about who's in charge of it rather than dealing with the material issues. Only if left green has become a policy that can be used and applied in any way. [[The president calls.]] At least it's not my position.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u37	Mr. President. I hereby recommend the Committee's Committee on a bill to legalize financial support to the less operator for a pandemic crown virus. As noted in a committee study, the committee received a number of reports as well as visitors. The bill is a part of government action because of the economic events brought on by the pandemic of Covid-19 and is in addition to the various laws that the General Assembly has already agreed to. The bill suggests that the operators, individuals or lawyers, who had to shut down or quit their activities because of the shorthands at the time of advertising No. 243/2020 on the limitation of meetings for epidemics can apply for a special closing strength to the more relevant conditions. However, employers with annual income range from 9 to 500 billion per year are advised. K. and have been exposed to at least A 40% drop of income is available for support loans in favour of the state's responsibilities to meet the criteria. In 1st. The bill comes in, including... to ensure that the legislation applies to operators who carry an unlimited tax obligation in this country under Article 1 or 2. Law on income taxes, No. 90/2003. The Committee has considered whether this framework of the set-up of the set-up of values is to prevent organizations that use a so - called tax host to avoid tax pay that should rightly flow to the Icelandic state, enjoying the financial resources of the bill. The bill support measures are limited to the operators who are settled in this country paying their taxes and expenses here. The majority of this feels clear, as is the requirement for unlimited tax obligations that the carer should be principled to pay income taxes in this country from all his taxable revenues, wherever they may be acquired. An employee who has unlimited tax obligations in the country, but who takes income out of the country to avoid paying taxes here, or who fails to account for his foreign income, makes it a matter of legal action. In accordance with the nature of the case, members of such tax collections may not have government support and feel that the majority are sufficient for this by factor 4. And number six, paragraph 10. The bill. The changes in the share include improvements in terms of conditions required for use of the resources laid down in the bill. Lays some more parts, including.. to require that the operator be submitted by the so-called CCS when appropriate and to add the conditions of the information about the real owners. These suggestions include: aimed at providing guidance on which aspects of the operation of the law will be maintained directly. But first to the closing point: The majority point out that since this bill has been submitted, there has been a new declaration of limitation at meetings due to epidemic disease. The advertisement closes certain activities beyond what was realized when the bill was submitted. Must call for a review of II. section of the bill, especially the maximum financial level available to sources that are clearly recognized need to remain closed. However, when this matter is taken out of the committee, it is not clear how long the additional closure that the advertisement would recommend. Two. 2.g. The advertisement stated that the government reevaluates the need for limits on the level of the budget, including the state of the environment. taking into account whether limits can be corrected until the time period is established. When this material is clarified, the greater part feels it is clear that they will be met by those who needed closure beyond the time of advertising No. 243/2020 as II. The section of this bill is in line. In some cases it will be done by a change in these laws, if the bill is accepted, and more part expects the committee to consult with the Ministry on such a change in due course. Otherwise, it is suggested that we be number four. .., on the conditions for close-up grants, there is an increase in annual accounts and the submission of information about actual owners in those situations where appropriate. Similar changes are provided for the 6th over 10th paragraph. which attracts support loans. In addition to the submission of annual accounts and information on the actual owners of the provision, a greater part is provided to specifically state that the applicant for support loans is due to reports on the ownership of the CFC society if the applicant falls under the scope of Regulation No. 1102/2013, of the taxation due to the ownership of legislation in low taxes, authorised at 7 mg. 57st. a treat on income taxes. By making a requirement for the submission of information on real owners and CC reports when this is true, the aim of the greater part is, in particular, to stress that we will be looked forward to the complete submission of applicants to their unlimited tax obligations on this land, in line with the principles of the bill, which I turned away from here, and to the interests of their management, and to the remuneration of public fees in accordance with that. In addition to the above, the greater part contributes to a change of the 8th sector to 10th paragraph. The bill. The review of the Committee included Critically, the provision was open and given grounds for espionage decisions. The majority suggest that a minister in the Regulation should account for the objective criteria that should provide the basis for the assessment of the sector. Expecting the greater part that the criteria will be clearly defined in the Regulation and that there will be scope for interpretation and taking the evaluational decision for management will be minimised to the extent possible. The members of the majority of the section report that closure concentrations and support loans are structurally similar to measures. Sealing concentrations are specifically aimed at improving damage to the chosen and clearly defined population, which may be preferentially expected to have undergone a very high degree of income loss during a certain period due to the direct recommendation of the competent authority. Support loans are a general procedure aimed at aiding smaller business providers who have suffered a dramatic loss of income along with changing economic conditions. Because of this, it is not right to link the amount of money of these measures together in the way suggested in the bill. Therefore, close concentrations are suggested not to impair the possible support loan. The majority contributes to several changes in terms of conditions and money of support loans. First of all, it is suggested that we make maximum power according to the 2nd section of Article 10. Increase from 500 million. K. into 1,200 million. K. in accordance with the definition of little partners according to the annual accounts legislation. Second, the majority contributes to the maximum budget of support loans, such as Article 11. will be 40 million. K. 6 million instead. K. The report pointed out that 6 billion were included. K. If you need to increase the amount of money, you need to make sure that you have a number of operators have a dose and that it would be necessary to increase the amount of money. The majority, however, consider it desirable for creditors, creditors, to carry some risk of higher loans in order to promote safe and responsible loans. In order to accomplish this, the greater part contributes to the full bail of 10 million. K. but only 85% of the amount of support loan that is more than 10 million. K. In line with this change, the majority of the item contributes to Article 13. The bill shows that loan institutions will be unrelated to giving a higher support loan than 10 billion. K., even if the applicant meets the 10th paragraph requirement. The bill and the maximum loan for him, according to Article 11. is over 10 million. K. The estimated extent of the State's responsibilities on support loans, in terms of changes in the share, is about 40 billion dollars. It should be noted, however, that this is somewhat uncertain. Two. Section 12. The bill is suggested that the operator at his application for support loan should confirm that he meets the criteria 10. ... according to incidents such as they may be implemented by the Minister's Regulation, to the information he provides, and to make a fundamental decision on the basis of Article 11. is correct, and he is aware that providing wrong or inadequate information may be a threat to stress, fines, or prison. The majority of them consider it necessary to ensure efficient implementation and limit complexity of decision-making to be based on confirmation of the operator at 2 mg. Section 12. The State's responsibility for supporting loans thus does not go down against the lender, although later it is found that the applicant has given false information unless it has apparently been realized that an application was based on other criteria. Because of this, the more part contributes to a change of 12. The Ministry pointed out that the IRS is a source of information that may need to be considered on the basis of the lender's application for support loans. 5 mg. 7. The bill is expected to include the tax to the credit centre limited information on the specified amount of closing capacity. Clearly, more information is needed in order to assess support loans such as whether the applicant has been on the payroll, his taxable income, and his salary in 2019. In addition, it is necessary to recommend that the Skatti be allowed to be provided according to the request of the information requested to the head of a central service portal. An application procedure is planned on Iceland's website, whose supervisor is the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs. In view of the information provided by the Ministry's Office, the more part is suggested to allow the tax to be passed on to the head of the central Service Commission and to the lender at the Bank of Iceland, the information available in the tax databases, and it is necessary to determine whether the applicant should meet the criteria for the loan and any amount of it should be. The 2nd matter of parsity. it shows that the loan time should be 30 months. 16th degree. it shows that in the last 12 months, loans and interest rates should be reimbursed with 12 equal payments. In view of the uncertainty of the longevity of the economic depression behind the bill, the greater part of it feels that the precise rules for loan time are presented in the Minister's Regulation rather than in the law text. For the shape of such a principle in a Regulation, the majority of the items include: can be considered as to whether there will be room for a loan date and if, under certain circumstances, the loan period can be extended if valid evidence recommends. The majority suggest an expression change of 13. the bill showing that the loan period of support loans should not be less than 30 months and that the loan period in the Regulation should be determined more closely. By the changes made by the greater part, on the other hand, the sum of back loans and Kingdom responsibilities, which increase the financial risk of creditors, the more it seems fair to the borrower's value beyond the full state of responsibility to allow the borrower to calculate a moderate amount of stress. The rest of the section suggests we're at 15. The bill adds to a new paragraph where it says that the pressure should be negotiated, which should reflect the financial risks and costs of financing, in the UN Bank and the lender's contracts. According to the bill's proposal, as many as two years of imprisonment are in serious violations of the premeditated law or gross insolence. The majority believe that the punishment of such offenses would be raised in line with other serious violations of financial rights, such as embezzlement and fraud, according to 247.3 and 248. General penalties, and inmate fraud, according to 123s, as stated by the 146st par. Act of stock trade. This will highlight the seriousness of the mismanagement, the better judgment, the resources of governments designed to help with management workers who have suffered a major loss of income because of the pandemic. Sets the extra piece to bring the penalty line to the 21st floor. The bill will be up to six years in prison. For the Committee it was noted that it was not possible to make loans for support that could be electronic. It would be important to offer the possibility that the bonds would be electronic, especially during the crowning epidemic and that it could speed up the loans. Therefore, there are some proposed changes to the bill to ensure that electronic debts will be made on loans. As noted above, the majority suggest a change in the maximum interest rates of support loans to 40 million instead of 6 and that the state's budget accounts for 85% of the amount of support above 10 million. With regard to the loans of over 10 million, there is serious doubt about whether a decision to lend a loan is an administrative decision and whether it is a government law. There are a number of other viewpoints in which a loan agency has a share of the risk and is therefore not related to granting it even if the applicant meets the 10th requirement. The bill. The majority of it is important that loan institutions be able to make a decision on loans where they carry part of the risk on their own terms and without being bound by the guidelines for handling and handling that the administrative legislation dictates. So the majority feel that it is preferable to add an article in which the administrative law does not apply to support loans, as III does. section of the bill, and suggests the adjustment of the material. With the same reasoning, the greater part feels that it is right to separate the above decisions from the rules of information laws and the Universal Agent. The majority of these points out that by saying that the administrative law does not value support loans, it is also clear that decisions about support loans are not administrative government under VII. the part of the law. However, from time to time, such decisions may be presented to the decision - making committee on business with financial companies, as mentioned in Article 19. a financial enterprise law, no. 161/2002. Mr. President. I've considered some of the main points of the committee's opinion, which is somewhat further. In addition to the committee's opinion, which is on the roof. 1380, follow up with the requested changes on the deck. 1281 I'm pointing at. Other than that, I refer to the written committee as to what has not been observed here. Under the heading of this publication, however, this publication is under consideration. The members of Valdimarsson Steindór and Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson in advance, and they will give special notice in their talk below. In addition, I would point out that there is some material discussion about them on the basis of the committee's opinion. In view of the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes proposed to the Senate document I quoted earlier. Under the heading "Birth of the Ages " Jón Steindór's Kárason, Jólmur the Valdimarsson of Perdím, for a moment, for Brubber the Brynjar of Níelsson, for Bordi, for the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, for Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, for Sigmundur Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, and for Willum Þór the son of Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u38	Mr. President. Thank you. A chairman of the prehistoric and positive news, especially regarding the loans of support and adjustments that the greater part intends to do on them. That's a good thing, I'm glad. But I just wanted to come in to the lockpoint. It was published in the advertisement which company would have to close and that is, based on their ability to apply for this strength. Nothing's been extended. I just want to come in with it for a second. A senator is not normal, e.g. Places of the restaurant fall on that side, many of whom had to close because there were no customers. This has been emphasized by the tourism organization in its review of the bill. We know that the executives of these enterprises are completely smiling, so you wonder if it is not normal for them to receive some kind of support, as is planned for the companies in the advertisement. Restaurants have lost much of their customers, much of whom were naturally foreign tourists. I wanted to ask you why. A senator whether it is normal for this to be checked within the committee and, as I say, the service has placed considerable emphasis on this. Actually, it's just a fair thing because business collapsed completely and the companies had to close. [[The president calls.]] We can only see it at restaurants downtown.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u39	Mr. President. You're right. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's children point out. Of course, there are a lot more operators, lawyers, and people who have been severely busied because of this epidemic, not just restaurants, and not just those who decided by the local authorities had to close. There are many more who have experienced it. However, we are here merely to meet those who were obliged to close. That's what we have. Of course, it can be discussed, and I think it's a reasonable tip from the wrong. A senator, whether it is possible for others to have some strength or support in this situation. Then I ask, "Where are we going to settle it? ' It cannot be confined to restaurants just because there are a number of other companies that have been completely busied. True, there are some indications that the economy is only about to start going back, and hopefully it is brighter. However, there are various restaurants, because the caterers are very clever, and they saved a lot of people, starting to send us our food home. I think they made it at least. working partially up the loss of income. But this is the right thing to say. Senator. Our problem is that we are merely going to meet those who were obliged to obey the decision of government officials and health officials, the government, to shut down their operation. But there are more parties than just e.g. restaurants that have been completely screwed up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u40	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer and happy to hear that he shows understanding that the companies I specifically mentioned, the restaurants, have been in and are in trouble because the business group has simply disappeared. That's why you ask if it's not normal to look at it, and I hope that it's checked. I understand how hard it is to draw the line, but I think it's decisive, especially in the country, in terms of restaurants. In the second answer, I'd like to get it past you. A senator, because he has made a huge deal with loan agencies and financial institutions on the loans: Is there anything better that he can expect to do? The problem now is that much of this has been at the speed of the snail and has not come about fast enough, and it is certainly shocking and can cause damage. [[The president calls.]] If a senator could only enter it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u41	Mr. President. I'm just going to reiterate what is stated in a committee study: It'll come back to us when it comes to re-evaluating the lock level, at least to those who were cut off for a longer time and are still shut down by the government's decision. My answer to the question, which is it? A chairman of the Committee believes that it is better to negotiate with business banks for support loans than with a planetary loan, it is simple: I don't think it should take very long, and the reason is that my homework has actually been done, when it comes to the factors to be looked at, in the masquerade. Now, all the big business banks, Iceland Bank, Arion Bank and Landsbank, have signed a contract with the Federal Bank, and I expect the banks to be involved in giving loans to those who meet their requirements because I view the Icelandic banks and business banks as part of the solution. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u42	A respectable president. We're dealing with the opinion of more part of the Economic and Business Committee on financial support to less management. What I've seen here and I've seen recently in these rescue packs is a good word, fair vote. What is it? It is also moderate stress. What do I think is moderate and why? paritaprevir Óli, Björn Kárason's got a little something going on, huh? That can be quite different. It says that the financial risks of creditors and their costs for funding tell us that those who owe us more if they are to reflect the risks must receive more than moderate stress, there must be considerable stress on those who owe the least and mention the pressures on those who owe a debt. I'm also thinking about e.g. the banks. Let's say a bank has ten companies, all of them, in business. Five of them are relatively small, and then there are five who owe a lot, they owe a lot, but one of them owes the most. What firm would be the most beneficial thing for the bank to save, so that the bank would be hit as a minor failure? Isn't that the company that owes most? How will we prevent the bank from focusing on saving the one most suitable for it to save and leave the others alone? I'm asking if this bill's been taken care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u43	Mr. President. I'm not quite sure what to do. A senator has studied the bill as he should. This is a process to provide loans foroculated enterprises. It is not as if the banks are looking to lend the company. That's why it's necessary to give 100% responsibility, the full responsibility of the state of the first 10 million, and its interest are Iceland's Federal Bank. When a higher loan is given, if a person may have the right to meet very strict conditions, it is specifically agreed between the relevant loan system and the Secret Bank, which takes into account any e.g. the financing cost of the loan company is. It is clear that the financial cost of the loan system is 0.75 percent higher than that of the Marine Bank. Then we're up to about 3%. The moderate pressure. All I know is that moderate stress is when you take into account the risk that is 15% of what is more than 10%, the pressure must be reflected in it and be moderate. That doesn't mean 1, 2, 3, 4, 5%. So these are probably the most beneficial loans ever offered by companies in Iceland by moderate stress. [[The president calls.]] I put it here that the Icelandic business banks will profit in no way by paying these loans, but they are willing to participate in this restoration. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u44	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason for answers. Yes, it can be a question of what is favorable, but the question is also, Who will monitor it? We know that it can become doubtful whether or not this company will get it. That may be an interpretation. It is said that the case can be handled to the decision - making committee on business with financial companies. But I also ask myself, " Who will supervise it? ' Even if the banks say no, how can those who may not receive the reward that they feel they have a right to refuse, seek their right to examine, and have proof that they have this right and get it? We know that such differences will arise. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u45	Mr. President. It may be all right to just quote to the bill that lies here, 19. par.: ▪ Qualification by Ministers in accordance with provision for temporary II on State responsibilities, No. 121/1997, monitoring for the implementation of this section... In addition, in my speech and in a written committee study, it was made clear that after some cases the decisions made by the business bankers may be presented with the legal right to a judicial committee on business with a financial company, such as Article 19. a financial enterprise law, no. 161/2002.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u46	A respectable president. It's a little weird to deal with these kinds of things, where two physical factors are going on. There is a distinct difference between the grants and the loans, both in terms of the potential use of the penitentiary, the almost monotonous or tiny hair shops and the massage parlors, as long as the loans are thought of by companies making up to 1,200 million dollars. K. this year if the change in the share is achieved. I think these differences are a little exaggerated by the changes in the majority of the items. In the bill, the strength to be up to a maximum of 2.4 million while the loan is 6 million. With the changes, the loans go to up to 40 million. K. I'm calling it up for the rules of IV. section of the bill on violations of the law, whether or not the same wood laws can really apply when you have your hair shop and the company that has 1,200 million dollars a year, especially when the majority of the stocks suggest hard repairs. I understand that reaction in the light of the previous events, e.g. Regarding the misuse of part-time reform, wanting to have a clear penal law, but isn't there a six-year prison full of punishments for a hairdressing clinic that borrows 2.4 million on a supportive loan?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u47	Mr. President. There will not be any danger of being sentenced to guilt or jail because it is quite clear that the person had to close according to the government's decision. Those who comply with the closing point are only the operators, individuals and lawyers who had to close their operations, temporarily because of government decisions. They were forbidden to welcome customers in hair salons. My barber was forbidden to accept me, as it was seen here in the last few weeks. I look a little better now. So it's not. I say, when the committee's suggesting to tighten the law here, it's in line with other frauds, in line with penalties, incarnations, etc. This is a law for up to six years in prison, and of course it means that when a judge determines whether punishment, penalties, prisons, or penalties will come, then the penalty must reflect the seriousness and extent of the crime, so that up to six years of imprisonment does not mean that we should all be judged to six years'imprisonment unless less.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u48	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer, since that only dealt with the matter. This is natural, so the closing concentrations can be equal to 9 gr. They've been offered on grounds they're supposed to have been wrong, so the repairs in these laws may be less relevant to hair salons than they are--no, I'm not going to guess on some operator. There is a theoretical possibility that this procedure will work for the operator who receives a closure grant and it's only good that it's done here, in the speech of the head of a major economic and business committee, that it's not intended to be the strictest law in this bill, but perhaps larger companies who are deliberately violating other regulations of the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u49	Mr. President. It's nice to be able to get some things straight or that I can do it, that's not always so. I'm just going to point out that it also says in this proverb: prison, up to six years old. In the end, the length of each month may be 1 month, unless the fractions are considered minor. The severity of the offense must always be taken into account by the nature or weight of the guilt or punishment. For someone to pick up, e.g. of a misunderstanding of a shut-down strength because he felt that he was enforcing the law and shutting it, but he might not have the right to do so, e.g. Not to me is considered fraud. He will pay them back that money. The final concentration is 2.4 million. [[The president calls.]] On the other hand, a person who cheats on a loan that is unusually good - quality, the best loan you can get, up to 40 billion, may have a six - year prison over his head. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u50	Mr. President. First, I'd like to commend the Chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, for the way he's been handling matters on the committee, and thanks for his cooperation on this matter. However, we do not always agree, and that includes. that's why I have a special committee opinion and suggest a change in the bill. The Union supports the economic and commercial changes to a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, but it also agrees with the changes made by Porta, which would also improve. However, the Synod protests strongly that those who have ties to tax and regional waters are not excluded from the support of the State. So I suggest a change to pars. the bill on values fields so that companies that put up plots to pay lower taxes in this country get support from a government fund. In a contract with Iceland's Secret Bank on so-called bridge loans, it also needs to be set and, in fact, with all the government support in my opinion. Peers have always fought against any kind of tax gain. We cannot accept that rich people make use of taxes, but we do allow the public to carry on the community by paying taxes. Billions are in the tax industry that people hide, so they don't have to pay their share with society, health care, law enforcement, or development aid. The Panama Documents showed that the scope of Icelandic economy was unique in the world at the time of the documents. There is reason to believe that it is still practiced here. The only way to counteract such social ills is to completely ban them. At least it should not be supported by public funds. Political conflicts will come to an end to the tax industry, for the interests of those who use them are great and they will stand together and say that they do not have to ban tax snow and must not place fences because some of the combinations are legal. In fact, we've heard that argument on land, including ... fromcontinents. It is totally unacceptable to extend money to those from a government fund who have not paid their fair share in society and have established complex and complex transfers directly to avoid it. During these difficult times, when a pandemic is under way, with the related loss of income and economic problems of homes, state funds, rural funds, there is no choice but to set clear conditions in the law. In a panel of more part of the Economic and Business Committee, it is claimed that it is sufficient to require that individuals or companies who are supported by the State Fund have full and unlimited tax restrictions on the country, that any employee who carries unlimited tax laws in this country and then remove income from the country, in order to avoid paying taxes in this country, or suffers the loss of entitlement of earnings abroad, will do so by law. There's a lot of misunderstanding in a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, and it's just the wrong interpretation of income taxes. The provision of the majority of the Committee is to set as conditions for what is already required by law. It is not that by accounts of CCC accounts an individual or company has proved that there is unlimited tax obligations in this country, as can be understood by the greater percentage of the committee, and that this has excluded those who use tax cover from the government's support. This understanding of a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on the income tax laws is impossible. What is called a requirement in the bill, and the changes in the majority of the items are meaningless legal regulations that appear to be an illusion. First, all the operators in Iceland have full and unlimited tax obligations in this country. This point doesn't make any sense. Secondly, the applicant's return for support is due a year's bill. This obligation is already in the law, both income tax laws and annual bills laws. Third, inform the real owners. That obligation is already by law. Fourth, if appropriate, report to CC. That obligation is already by law. This shows that there is no new requirement under the law for those who make use of the tax industry and the changes merely to put dust in the eyes of members of Congress and the common people. Everyone who's made money in this country has full and unlimited tax obligations here. No company is left out there. This does not rule out tax benefits or tax marches with the assistance of nationalities. In Indriði Þorláksson, former head of state tax, puts it this way in a fistula on his website under the heading "Application of the Tax Controllers. " That's where he says, by permission of a president: ▪ Exploitation rates and tax reforms with the aid of domesticities are the fact that taxpaying with a fully and unlimited tax dues, in this country, transports income which is made to a community outside of Iceland's tax law, most often a drawer company in a low tax area. It is not to be prevented. On the contrary, it is essential, for otherwise there is no income. These measures are usually not illegal, but they may include avoiding the tax laws, making the Icelandic operator's income seem to be someone else's. Indriði, it is possible for the tax profile to be carried out in a variety of ways, such as by the Icelandic management community of a community in an area of the country or a low taxation area that receives payments from the Icelandic company. This may be money, interest from loans, and a variety of favors. In addition, such companies may be involved in false cover - ups, trade - and - buy products at high prices or at low prices. The European budget is linked to the Icelandic Union through property, and income that should be taxed in this country are being exported beyond the cliffs. The CFC rules do not prevent a foreign partner from owning a business company and an international company in a tax industry that he will transfer his profits to without paying for that tax to Icelandic society. The rules do not reach the Icelanders who live in London, establish a society in Tortoli, and that company in Iceland. In London, the Icelander receives income that is obtained here on land moved through the Off-country Society without paying his taxes on land. The results of the former tax manager are clear. He says, with President's permission: A reference to ◯full and unlimited tax obligations to protect against a person who uses tax covering in his work or who is involved in such activity is meaningless and does not change anything. President. The one standing here, the members of the Committee on the United States, would like to separate from the support of the State all those associated with a low tax state and therefore contribute to a change in the set of values of the bill, as shown in Article 1. It is. I propose to enter 1 st. If this paragraph appears: ▪ The law does not apply to persons or lawyers who have hands, directly or indirectly, ownership or management of any group, fund or organisation that is considered to be permanent in a low tax state, such as 57.g. a income tax laws, no. 90/2003, or of the legislation in direct or indirect possession or under the control of any society, fund or organisation in a low tax states. President. The Danish law adopted in that country by Covid-19 on a similar matter states that individuals or companies who violate their activities against criteria established by the European Union are not supported by the government. There are also four - fold penalties for those who try to cheat government aid provided by the pandemic. To show that they are serious, they have increased the number of employees in tax research and surveillance by about 250. If we were to copy Dana in this regard and increase the number of employees in surveillance and tax research, we should add 15 tax and tax investigator employees. Danes show by their actions that they do not want to support those who make use of tax shelters because tax plots serve no purpose other than escape from paying to society. But what do we want? Do we want to support the activities that have been used to avoid society in such a way? The answer to our match is: No, we are not supposed to do it at all. However, in order to prevent this, a clear set of laws must be set, and this will be done by the agreed changes made by the United States on the bill we now address and by the others who will be involved in the treatment of the Parliament because of the economic effects of the pandemic. President. Now I've been reviewing the Commission's opinion and changes in the United States's proposal to prevent those who use tax seas from getting national support through emergency situations during a pandemic. Then, at the end of my talk, I want to show the importance of that, already that some large packages have come from the government, already the highest. The minister says that the balance of the state funds could be 250,300 billion in 2020, then we must stop at the council and try to assess the impact of all these actions. We'll have to assess a part-improvement process, postponement of payment, lock-up grants, support loans, mortgages, and tax changes, what the tax settlement is, as we were doing last week. It is essential for us to set the budget and to establish laws and accept and to explain these actions all to get expert assessments of how these actions work together, what they will likely lead to, and to try to determine whether they will achieve the results we expect. We don't have that perspective today, and I'm full of words, Mr President, that I'm not just speaking for the smaller parts of that subject. I've got a suspicion. The members of the greater part are in exactly the same place that we need to gain a better perspective and to evaluate experts how all these actions play together and what their effect is.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator very much for his speech. It is not surprising that we do not agree in everything. But I'm going to thank you. A senator very much for his cooperation, and though he may have been ill. A senator didn't sign the majority opinion, so I'm not trying to tell you any secret when I say that. Still, a senator took note of the outcome in the greater part of the matter. At least that's how we worked together. There is, however, an adjustment that I am deeply concerned about since then. A senator who is based on excluding all societies in the state of 57th. a The income taxes are applicable. Who are they? Yes, there are tax taxes that directly or indirectly share in any group, fund, or institution that is considered to be permanent in a low tax state, but that should pay income tax from the profits of such partners in proportion to their ownership without regard for distribution. So I testify directly in this article, with the permission of the president: ▪ These incomes are taxable in a comparable way to the work being done here in the country. I wonder what. So a senator is actually suggesting to exclude many Icelandic companies, which follow Icelandic and follow the 57th paragraph. a The income taxes, to suggest that they are taken out only by parentheses, not having the same rights as the bill we're putting on. Has a what? So, then, a senator is not concerned about the rule of equality we are trying to follow?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u52	Mr. President. First of all, I'm not worried about a political rule in this matter. I want to ask you why. In contrast, for whom do individuals and businesses use low taxes and tax cover? Why do they do that? This is to avoid paying taxes on the land. This is to avoid paying a fair share to the community. I think we should rule them out from government support. I'd prefer to ban them completely, but I realize that they would have to happen everywhere in the world, because men undermine the welfare system by offering their companies and individuals who want to throw away their money and pay less taxes. But at least We are not supposed to take money from taxpayers, take money from the state funds from those who are paid to strengthen such individuals and such companies in the time of a pandemic, and we are in gross economic problems that we cannot see before the end. That's what we're doing here, and that's what we want to rule out, even if they're legal. But this was done, and tax seas and low taxes are used to avoid having to pay their share to the community. Those who do so in abundance want others to share their share in the welfare system. Then we are not to be helped by public funds through emergency services during a pandemic.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u53	Mr. President. There's some misunderstanding here. A lot of Icelandic partners have activity or have a share in partners in a region defined as low taxes. It's not a tax dress, it's not the same thing. Low taxes may vary in one industry or even one company. And, in isolated cases, Iceland, although it is a high tax land, could be defined as a low tax area, due to environmental taxation, reimbursement, etc. Norway, in some cases, is a low tax area in the individual sector. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: Is that certain? A senator would like to suggest that a variety of sceptical companies and innovation companies, those who have been building a wide range of impressive successes in many parts of the world, but who have established within their subsidiary to support that activity - in some cases these communities are registered in countries in the European Union, which, according to the definition of low taxation because the definition is of nature and is clear to 57. ... onthegrad taxanes. This surprises me, however, and is not consistent with all the language being done. A senator I've been listening to, that he's stopped worrying about the 90-year-old rule. That really surprised me.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u54	Mr. President. In general, I'm not done worrying about the rules of 90, but in this case, I'm not worried. I don't get it all wrong. However, it does. Senator, president of the Economic and Business Committee, he misunderstands the income tax laws. I heard nothing better in his speech earlier than that he said that it was conditional for those who make use of their local tax waters and territories, societies, to enjoy what the bill foretells. He says it's guaranteed by talking about the total and unlimited tax rights in this country. This is not to say that it is a single enterprise or an individual is excluded from it. There's just a huge misunderstanding on income taxes. Also, there is nothing new in the credit conditions that deal with such complex and complex transfers in particular to cheat on taxes. There is no such thing in the conditions for the adjustment of the majority of the committee. That's why I was moved to contribute this committee and these forms of adjustment, for of course we won't be able to accept that we are paying and support such activities with public funds. The rules mentioned in the Committee's panels and the changes made by the majority of the segments apply to the Icelandic Member States, which apply, e.g. not for anyone who lives in London, sets up a company in Torttola, which then runs the operation here on the land. How's it going, man? A senator's keeping public money from spilling into the pockets of such a party?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u55	Mr. President. Thank you. Harðardóttir For the talk and the cooperation with the Committee on this matter and other issues related to the epidemic, a Oddný G.. The senator came at the end of his talk to a very interesting point in which we would appreciate the results of the operation. I think there's something that may not be more appropriate now than before, but I think it's a very important approach to the Senator's office. It's important that in some way we can figure it out, and even in fact, as hard as the resources come into existence, what matters most, what works best, etc. And it also matters to us as a community that we try to get the sense of it clearly in the way we spend our tax dollars, as the senator was told, where it was most useful, etc. What I wanted in this relationship with the senator after that is whether she rolled it up or developed some ideas about how to do this, i.e. What are the best ways to do this, and who should do it? Because for us as a community, I think this approach of the senator is of utmost importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u56	Mr. President. As the situation is right now, I think it is obvious that we should call a financial body that has a role in the law on public finances and that we should simply ask for an assessment since the law is not written that under such circumstances it should happen. There are experts evaluating financial policy once during terms. True, there is now a new direction each year for this government, but this is not a good thing. In addition, financial matters should be evaluated. I think the work of a financial body has taught us a few things about government matters. Its review and assessment of policies and plans have left things in perspective for us and have helped us to examine the big picture. That is exactly the kind of help or analysis that we need now because we are in the eye of the storm, and we don't know anything if we hope that things will work out well. Although we hope the epidemic has crossed the country, at least For now, all we need to do is look only at the neighboring countries where the virus is beginning to recover. Of course, what happens in the countries around us affects us, and we know that we cannot go on so indefinitely. Somehow we must stop and evaluate the situation. I've previously said in this sermon that we've been so lucky to have the trinket that's been talking to us every day for weeks, public health care, a psychiatrist, and a land surgeon. [[The president calls.]] We also need a professional analysis on the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u57	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. The senator mentioned financial advice, and I can totally agree with her that it may be an excellent approach to get financial advice to look over this tool and try to see the context of it, especially in view of the fact that we all agree that the state's funds are not bottomless but are dependent on some limitations. That is why it is important to know what kind of vendetta is best involved in such material. The senator also mentioned the possibility of having some experts or other external opinions. I also wondered if. The university community or some sort of expert committee or combination of a National Committee and a Senate committee, something like that, could possibly be involved, for this is absolutely important. We see this to be photographed now, and I know that the Senator agrees with me in that, that many of the things we tried in the collapse may not work well enough, that may not be quite the same today as then. But we're not necessarily trying all the things back or putting all the things back in. But many of the things that worked just fine, such as making the partial improvement, are now familiar and useful to us. I think it's very important that we as a community learn from the collapse or depression like this one. [[The president calls.]] If so, we may be able to take advantage of the ensuing element that will help us to get on with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u58	Mr. President. I want to agree with what. Senator. It's important to make use of the experience from the collapse of the bank. But we must at the same time remind ourselves that it's not as a crisis, it's completely different. If I look, for example. in my area that got really bad out of the bank crash - this was mainly because we were so in debt. We were so debted after we were driven into debt that the nation was threatened with independence. The wealth of money was so heavily committed that one was concerned about the nation's independence at the most. But individuals were also so, so it was mostly a debt, but of course it was unemployment. Unemployment in Southnes, the country in which unemployment was the most unemploymental part then and is now the most common factor in the collapse. People now see 30% unemployment. There's a lot of other places. We are not as debt now, but this has a significant impact on our economy. This, of course, affects homes, children, sweat funds, and government funds as well. So these are bigger numbers than a different crisis. We need to figure out how we get out of this together. One of the things I've proposed at the General Assembly, and we in the United States, are that we initiate a national interest agency that is under the Council to give us a report twice a year on the state of the economy for which the general council could consult and get an evaluation of proposals, etc. If we had such an institution, it could also be the ministry of financial advisers in their jobs and we would be better off in this position. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But it is not like that, so let us look to the future and try to get it on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u59	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a committee study with a modification form from a secondary part of the Economic and Business Committee. It is proper to note that I came into the middle of the storm and did not participate in the treatment of the committee of the case until just after the hearing, had to put myself in on the matter very fast and well, subjecting myself over a few things, and changing my mind more than once in the light of further information, the chairman of the Committee, and the committee to a great deal of joy and satisfaction. But I received clear answers from everyone, and everyone cooperated, and that was good. This is clearly taken into account in the reviews as well as in the members of the committee itself, and the changes made in the treatment of the committee on the case are a great improvement in another very good matter. Yet, there are still some baits that need to be cut off. Finally, rescue measures have begun for smaller companies and individuals operating on their own social security number. Therefore, it should be noted that these smaller enterprises, which are the national vertebral system, will receive financial support in the management of problems caused by Covid-19. Many of the activities of monographers and smaller companies suffered a great shock when they were told to shut down by direct instructions, and it was likely to be hit on the meeting flag. April month was heavy for many operators who needed a fixed cost but who received little or even no income during the same period. Some functions are still down, and it is not clear when they can start again. There are two kinds of options in the bill, and they are very different. On the one hand, there are maintenance grants to the companies and people on a job that temporarily had to cut off the business, close the doors to clients, or significantly reduce business management because of official recommendations on the results of certain activities and limitations at meetings and activities. On the other hand, a favorable loan is available. Government funds guarantee complete or largely support loans from loans to smaller operators who have suffered significant and temporary loss of income because of the effects of the Korean epidemic to meet their operating expenses. That's good. The arrangements are very good, and the purpose and purpose are excellent. The declared objective of the bill according to Article 2. It, with the permission of the President, is maintaining the level of employment and economic activities by supporting smaller operators who have experienced a temporary loss of income due to a pandemic crown virus and the government's efforts to protect against the spread of the virus in the first century. I know that you need to respond quickly and effectively. I'd like to get less operators to help as soon as possible, but they didn't respond to the most serious problems of the bill involved in the use of taxes and low taxes. I hereby refer to the Commission's opinion and to the change proposals of the 1st, the smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee as any. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir went over quite well earlier. I give support to the adjustment proposal. The bill does not provide sufficient resources for the use of taxes and low taxes. I can't support financial support of any kind of operator who does. This is the main reason why I can't easily sign a part of the Committee. It is serious that the committee has not seen a reason to put the resources into practice with an enterprise that does not take advantage of tax cover and low tax taxes. On the contrary, this fault could not be written at speed and speed. Rather, it was contrary to the commission that further fences in the use of tax panels would be put into the bill. This is why I can't sign the opinion of the greater part of the Committee. There were more lurers who weren't cut off by the bill, and I've got a new set of suggestions that cut them off to some extent, but not all of it. In this hurry to save smaller companies who have been seriously affected by business events, it may not be possible to expect that the bill is perfect, but it has to insist that the obvious problems are corrected. Sealing grants are resources for the direct shutdown or discontinuation of business by direct request according to the advertisement No. 243/2020 based on 2 mgr. Section 12. Prosecution, No. 19/1997. Of course, halting the work is a very burdensome administrative decision and can be considered a personal compensation for the damage to the government. The starter to continue ban after April has to be met separately as it is not being done in this bill. This bill reaches only April, but hopefully it will be revised to the end of May, June, and July. The closure concentrations are maximum of 800,000 k. for each employee, or 2.4 million. K. maximum. The maximum amount is too low in my opinion, and it is enough to cover the fixed cost of many smaller enterprises which have been closed or stopped. This strength is very useful to the least of the companies, individuals in the business, but many small companies need larger improvements. Little business is often sensitive and vulnerable to the related tragedy. It may be noted that a definition of small associates reaches 50 employees, but this is a maximum of three employees. It is by no means signed to suggest that the strength is targeted at 50 employees, but it would have been possible to make some compromise to ensure continued management of small and delicate enterprises. Many companies have made use of other government options during the shutdown or limitation of the operation, e.g. partial reforms, innovations, changes in services, but there is good reason to increase the strength in which the least of these problems are less difficult to borrow. It is one thing to accept compensation for the financial consequences of the burdensome government decision, but it is quite another to take back a loan, in a favorable way. This could prevent the continued management of small companies and individuals who have been closed or cut off and, in my opinion, have to go further in order to meet these tiny and small companies that have been almost empty all April, and it appears that some of them will be closed far into May. It was also noted that if you compared employees with employees without taking into account the work ratio, a company with three employees in 50% more than a company with two full - time employees would get higher levels. There'd have to be a number of places to go before employees do, and I'd have to change the motion. It is clear from the news of the past few days that companies who are even in business problems are using resources to improve their interests, not to secure the work of their employees, but to improve their accounting. The director of Marel's radio program reported that it seems that some companies took advantage of the part - improvement process to save the year's contributions and impress shareholders. In this way, there are always ready to milk all the dairy cows that stand on the open jaw, but the taxpayers are not to take responsibility and to support themselves in any form in the companies who do not need assistance. It can't happen. The Commission is obliged to manage taxes properly and to ensure that all the measures taken by the Covid-19 pandemic are directed to where they are especially needed. Therefore, it is evident from these events that the measures taken in a major situation are offered to be limited by clear and firm conditions to prevent abuse. All the talk that we're all in this together and that appeal to the community responsibility of corporate leaders is immediate letters. It is obvious that in the hurry to implement the part-change process, there was a firm management of the government, both the European Commission and the legislature authority, which should have provided the possibility of misuse of SMEs on the resources and funds for them. But now we know better and have time to avoid misuse of expensive rescue supplies. Governments are never ready to appeal to responsible individuals who need support because of a serious problem. For a person to receive financial assistance from the State, he must meet a multitude of conditions - a wide variety of small type and difficult government. It is unnatural for individuals to be more demands than companies. However, we should learn from mistakes that have already been made, pause, and do better. Of course, it would have been normal for every group at the council to meet the criteria for financial support to companies and to place them in all the basic arrangements for an enterprise in the pandemic. This bill has defined special requirements that must be met for the maintenance of a closed-temperature that is sufficient and not burdensome for all the smallest companies. But the conditions involved in support loans are not enough. In a clear way, the bill takes on money and other capital transport from companies to owners while the state - responsibilities of the loans are under control. It is clear, however, that such conditions will not limit access to such loans to enterprises that already have in the past year or to March 1 pay money to profit and one of the companies who are using state support to quit employees. It would be good if we could decide whether we are providing support to maintain a level of employment or to assist companies with staff reporting. So I want to direct the Committee that this will be discussed specifically between 2 and 3. The problem mentioned earlier and the weightiest is that there is insufficient support for companies who use low taxes and taxes. This calls a warning bell for the public. The bill does not address whether companies will take advantage of tax cover or they will possess a tax bill. It cannot be considered acceptable therapy of government funds to lend loans to enterprises whose property or subsidies are in taxes. That's irresponsible treatment of the budget and it's serious. Qualifications in Article 1. In Iceland, the bill on total and unlimited tax responsibilities does not prevent tax collections or practices. There is a chance that many types of income will be moved from a company that has exactly full and unlimited tax obligations in this country, to another company in a low tax area or in a tax industry. Also, the CFC rules do not prevent the use of tax taxes and low taxes. Rather, they only ensure that these partners are made aware. The requirements need to be much more strict and expedient would have been to support the European Union's criteria for the use of taxes. It's like a wet barrel in the face of taxpayers that this payoff is not done. It is to be a standard tool in all the markets for financial support of any kind to the operator. The use of tax taxes and low taxes has been suggested not always to be illegal, and this should not be a requirement for corporate support loans or other resources. But the legitimate nature of the act has nothing to do with it. No illegal payment is required, but conditions that prevent them are given as long as their Kingdom responsibilities and support are met. The same is true of the tax industry. These measures are to be used by companies who are faced with problems because of the pandemic. It is clear that companies that can make money, buy in their own letters, or move income into low taxes, or pay taxes are hardly in a difficult financial position. I strongly oppose the fact that the tax of the public is used to vouch for the borrowing of companies in such actions. I restate on the fact that the legitimateness of the preparations is not involved. The support is needed to meet a greater need. They need conditions for an enterprise's personal position. It is necessary that companies with a good personal budget, if available, be employed before going into the state's budget. It would have been a slow time for the Ministry to create an algorithm for self-finance and its impact on support measures, without being too burdensome, but being reasonable and just. In the bill, there is also a need for effective financial training. The requirement of this medicinal product is restricted to public fees, significant detriment of loan institutions or bankruptcy. Substitution of enterprises to privates, e.g. Because of the means or the purchases of services, often in a failure of financial education, in which bankruptcy programs are costly and often bring little or limited results. This is an essential requirement for the management of an enterprise. Here it is suggested that this condition be added to Article 10. The bill. Industrial organizations pointed out that the minimum limits for support loans are too high. The minimum target for the bill is 4.2 billion. K. every year due to the final concentration and 9 billion. K. for the support loans. The minimal thresholds in supportive loans should be the same as the closing capacity to ensure operating of individuals on their own social security number, micro enterprises and all the smallest companies. This view is accepted, and the adjustment suggests that the minimum target value is 4.2 billion. K. the annual income for both measures. Clearly, many dictators, even in part - time operations, fall between ships and docks and fail to meet the unemployment criteria. I mention to form stagers who have taken on a lot of money and these people should have access to both parts of the talk. Finally, I'd like to talk about a Minister's Regulation, which is specific in two places on the bill. I think it's a bit extensive. The criteria for support are listed in the bill. It can then be assumed that the bonds and loan agencies will make a contract for the execution of support loans in accordance with these laws. Therefore, there is no need for ministers to have very free hands to add objective criteria and to further expand conditions, as mentioned in the bill. It will be better for the lawgiver to set the criteria and conditions rather than to give a minister so broadly the power to assess economist methods of management. I'd like to reiterate and repeat that the options are good and that I support them wholeheartedly. If there hadn't been a shortage of terms that would have made for government support to the operators using a tax host, it would have been possible to sign the committee's opinion of the greater part, but it could not. Change course. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir provides adequate conditions for people with property in taxes and low tax countries to have the government support this bill brings to business partners. Signing supports this suggestion, so it is not necessary to repeat it in these changes. I encourage the entire U.S.R. to support the change in plans. paritaprevir Oddný new G. Harðardóttir. In terms of a modification point of 2nd, I refer to the Committee's opinion where the adjustments are made and the logical support is with them, finally suggesting that the bill be accepted by these changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u60	Mr. President. Here we will discuss a case about a so - called retirement loan and a closing power. I don't think it's excessive that these are long - awaited measures. The committee has discussed these matters extensively in many of its meetings, and I think it is appropriate to commend my fellow committees for good discussions and practical suggestions. Much of it has paid off into this bill, which is a great improvement. It is safe to say that the bill will make big changes if adjustments are made. So I made a decision to sign more parts of my opinion but, in fact, to do so in advance. Perhaps there is a fundamental reason why I choose this way. I believe the bill is a great improvement, it's made a lot of progress. This does not mean, however, that it is faultless, so I have a warning that I will make further an explanation for the following. The second, however, may well be that you have experience that teaches you gradually, and this is once so that all of those matters, when the government stand, and so far forward. At times, she can contribute well, sometimes being listened only to in the terms of the Government, but then a line is drawn in the sand, saying, "Here and no farther. " You learn that whatever the government offers, apart from what the government groups have decided among themselves, will not be checked, and all of that will be cut off. Well, maybe you could say it's a little out of control with me, and maybe you should always believe in the miracles and things change, but that's the situation. I'll make a warning that I'm going to read here, by permission of the President's office: The challenge, along with the changes made by the majority of the committee, is well paid and is worthy of supporting its progress. However, there are especially two things to be said about. On the one hand, close concentrations should not be limited to the number of workers, but to the status. However, supporting loans should be used for parties with less management income than 9 million. K. A further article will be considered in the discourse. - And now I am. In fact, I see that my comrades in the government have proposed some adjustments that I will only come to below, but some of them are concerned with the two things I mention here. I think there's a problem with the lock level based solely on the staff headcount. I know that there are some technical reasons why it may be easier for the authorities to monitor the number of workers rather than monitor their standards, but this can lead to a very unfair conclusion, since many times and times, just in these smaller places, it is important to be able to talk about status values, since there are often people in part - time jobs at these places, so this does not lead to good enough conclusions. This certainly would have been possible, but much of the committee was not agreed to travel. The other thing is about the support loans, which I think are also important. I note that this article took one of the most positive changes in nature, and I don't want to draw a feather over the fact that I'm very pleased with the changes and I think that there was an excellent way to expand the set of values and to give more consideration to the size and attention of the companies who need such support loans. I believe, though, that we may have set the target rather highly, since many indications have been received that a substantial amount of activity falls under this reference number. It would have been better to have her less than 9 million, exactly who she should have been, but maybe somewhere between 5 and 6 million would have been more appropriate. Naturally, there is a lot of discussion, both here at the council and at the council committees as well as in the community, on the grounds that companies can have such support and, like, other forms of it. The least we want is the disposal of the city's taxes. We want money to benefit from those whom we would like to support and that there are real reasons, objective reasons, for seeking the resources involved. It may be difficult, moderate in nature, to figure out how things will be best. The first thing we have to keep in mind -- I think that's general and maybe we haven't exactly discussed it yet - we're in this operation, at least. in the business, to the lawyers, both for this bill, for the loan of the bridge, and for other support, to assist lawyers, lawyers, and this is government support, this is the support of the state given on certain criteria. No one should doubt that such support is official, and I mean that it should be informed about it, that it should be available to those who receive this support. If an enterprise seeks support on the basis of a particular premise, it cannot be a secret for business interests or what it might now be on the part of the company. That's why I think it's the first principle that everything is public, everything is accessible, everything human beings get through this system, because transparency is the best defense against money being treated badly. They've mentioned a tax bill here. All shelter has fallen to the fact that there are always some who crawl on it. Public talk based on hard facts about who received what and why is what we should aim for? I'm saying this, too, because people are wondering if companies will be protected. I think it's a very long-term theory, especially when this is true. In this context, I would also like to point to a recent committee decision that allowed access to public information and was associated with, including, Asking the council where I asked for state support to farmers who have never been able to tell; which farm gets what, they have never to inform them. The decision was to hold on to interests that protected the public, to know what such government support is spent, and to whom. Thus, it has been published in the Senate a detailed overview of all the individuals who have been given such strength and for what, for a very specific reason. So I can't see that this is supposed to be a problem. I think that in itself only the government's decision needs to be made. I don't think we need to change the law or do anything to do this, the government will decide, that's what it is, and that's how it's gonna be. If they are afraid of doing so, they will only be out of the support they seek. I strongly believe that we should not be funded or given access to stakeholders who truly abuse or in some way can bring such benefits to some kind of shelter. A tax area is designed to be the only thing in the shelter that no one knows about, and that is the very point that no one knows about it. It is obvious that money rooted in Iceland, which is in such shelters, is, in my opinion, as bad as it is yesterday and tomorrow. The problem becomes a little bigger when we reach so - called low tax countries, where companies and businesses can be located. There's no need to pull a feather over it. They do so in order to enjoy tax economic advantages, and this is even now a time when many countries that do not stand so far away from us will use tax economic resources to attract investments. We were accepting a large law on supporting a new creation company. You might say that in that way we are reduced to taxes in a certain way, we are under taxes in that sense. We know that many of our innovation companies come to countries where support is great, and it is often in the form of tax economy and direct diplomacy. In itself, we have not made comments about this. All of this made me feel that there are ideas, suggestions, or suggestions. Harðardóttir For example, a youth in the United States who has served as a ministerial servant or a ministerial servant in one of Jehovah's Witnesses may be able to make a personal decision. There may be some way to achieve this goal there. But at this point I do not have complete conviction about the scope of Icelandic enterprises, which have somehow settled in so - called low tax countries. What is this vastness, and are we really sure that we want all these companies to be Catholic except for this help? I don't know. I don't know because I don't know what company this is, what their size is in Icelandic society. I don't think this is necessarily a suitable consequence of setting strict rules, which are certainly set up for a very good purpose, which I support in myself, but we need to know what we're talking about before we do it. I don't know, and I honestly don't know if anyone else knows. Perhaps this information is not so far away. The tax authorities may be aware of this, but they may not be able to inform us about individual companies who operate legally in so - called low tax countries. We're mostly talking about some firms that have suffered a breakdown and need help, and I reiterate that I'm a spokesman for such assistance. Clearly, such assistance should not be abused, and we should not suffer. I used to say that companies are law characters, but the law person controls people, and even if a business doesn't have a conscience, they probably have some trace of conscience, even though I don't want to say they all do. However, a quick appeal to a conscience will be sufficient when a person opens a course of premeditation. It's an old story and a new one. This is hard. You hear me talking a little bit in circles, someone would be found. But it's just because the thing is, I think, not quite as simple as it appears at first sight. But this is a very careful look, and that's what I'm going to do. I look at both Pirata's proposals, which have quite a taste for the comments I made materially with smaller points in the bill, and as a suggestion from the oar. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter trying to figure out that it's not going to be abused. I'm not entirely convinced that this is the best way, but I'm sure I'll take a good look at it and think about whether there's a good way out there. But I have doubts about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u61	Mr. President. I'm going to extend the discussion, but I'm going to try to be a little tighter than a long word. Still, I feel that it is necessary to include the discussion in this matter for a moment. A financial and business committee has worked on an excellent solidarity at the longest level and, in fact, in all basics, reached the same conclusion. It is widely agreed with the committee that this method, i.e. to provide closeness and support loans, to be a means of understanding and to be used. I believe it is right from the beginning that the changes in proposals that may be the most important thing, i.e. to change the amounts and limits of the company's economy are of enormous importance. In fact, in the beginning, I believed that such a difference exists between a company that had less than 100 million. K. ... anda company that might have 500 million. K. More than that, however, think about how important it is that we try to have the support for these types of companies not exactly alike. The committee has been hired and is actually made a third way. When we had been present at the council, we had agreed on the fine way to which it is called a masquerade. That way was to be two. However, it has been found in the work of the Committee that the difference between very small enterprises and SMEs, at least in mediumsized in terms of quality numbers, is considerable. Hence, the process that has gone away is to create a range of intermediate points between the loans and the even more reasonable support loans. Of course, this will change the responsibilities that the State must handle, no doubt about it. But I think everybody really agreed to offer a company of 500 million. K. Ask for a supportive loan of 6 million. K. you may not have been in the business or weighed heavily by saving the company from a final swelling. So the path that has gone is reasonable. In this cross-cutting category, which accounts for 85% of the state responsibility and 15% of the financial enterprise, the maximum loans can be 40 million. K. Again, it is not some huge sum for a company of 1,200 million. K. you know, don't at all, but there'll be no doubt that the less companies are important, and in effect means that companies with up to 400 million. K. can get up to 10% support for your previous operation. This is vital, and we hope that this will be to save many of the jobs and, of course, those who are responsible for them. There have been significant discussions, Mr. President, of conditions and how to prevent the misuse of the resources. A considerable amount of work has been done on a committee trying to find ways, and both the head of state tax and the head of the tax department have come to the board to recruit the committee. The conclusion that the majority of the committees find that they are not perfect in the sense that they do not completely cover the fact that they have money in foreign lands or that they can carry money abroad. It's not like that, for it can be done in Icelandic law. However, I believe and more of the Committee that the criteria set, on CC reports, actual owners and annual accounts, will have any subsidence. I think, however, that the debate that has been both in the council and in the country over the past few days, about how the public and the politicians will respond to when companies that are trying to compromise rules, and perhaps not necessarily but will continue to use them despite not needing them, will help us to ensure that companies who do not need support do not look at him. Still another way the committee is going to try to deal with this is to change the penalty. Now it is so, Mr. President, that I am not in the nature of my criminal. I'm not the one who suggests that everyone is imprisoned or fined. But I think it matters, in order to have the community responsibility that they shoulder by accepting support from the State, that laws make it clear that by breaking the rules, they have money from public funds without having a right, they know how to be punished, both financially and also in prisons. That's the law of prison. Prison punishments are raised from two years to six as a limit, and the fines are explained, so if you search the committee and change them well, fines to the individual can be studied up to 65 million. K. and legal tickets, if I recall correctly, about 800 million. K. in accordance with the requirements of the laws referred to in the members of the committee and in the bill or in the procedure of change. This is of utmost importance, Mr. President, for as all the members of the councils here have repeated, it is of utmost importance that out of the limited amount of money the government has made from playing, we are not wasting up those who don't need them. We do not waste them on those who do not trust themselves to share fully in the community by paying taxes and by applying the same rules as the rest of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u62	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's talk and can agree with a lot of what he said, especially when it comes to us seeing that the activities we have spent the night putting together have been abused by some companies. Is it really extremely sad, and I'm hoping that by the actions we are discussing on this bill, support loans, it is not possible for humans to take advantage of it as we have seen through the part-change process. What I wanted to do was come in with what I wanted to do. A senator's opinion is that he should not have examined this closing process. I specifically mentioned this about the restaurant in answer to what happened. Chairman of the Committee, what? paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, whether to predict that those who are exclusively entitled to these support loans may somehow have the right to close-up grants. We must not forget that it is very important to keep these companies floating. If there is a mass failure in this article, we will see that it will be much more difficult for us to recover when tourists start coming back here as soon as we hope they will soon, hopefully in the autumn months or in the late summer, that their companies will be able to accept it. Therefore, all available measures must be taken to avoid the failure of the number of expenses in this article. In case of a moment. A senator could only intervene in this, whether he would imagine that this closing power could be extended in some way in the next act of the government that has been announced.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Birgir of Þórarinsson answers. The Senator comes in to see if he should have extended his final scholarship, and I thank the senator for special mention. In fact, I believe that to some extent the committee did this by separating the lock strengths from the support loans. In the original bill, it was assumed that if an enterprise was able to gain a close-up scholarship, it would be reduced from the support loans. The committee concluded, however, that this is not really the case with the exact object, so there is reason for understanding. This means that to create a company with three employees, let's say, can pick up both the finals by 2.4 million for these three standards and also gain support loans for the operation. If the company had 100 million, which may be unlikely to have a three - man enterprise, but let it lie in the middle of a section, it could make a total of 12.4 million in support, with a volume of 2.4 million in closing. So with whether we should expand the law, it has been as if speaking, as the senator agreed, that such a course might be wise. I think it might be possible to look into the context of what we see, perhaps when this month has already passed and into the next, whether there will be a considerable number of enterprises that still need to be put in some way, and if they need to stretch further and in the same way if it turns out that we have just missed some group that might have had to close despite the fact that there was not exactly a government command.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u64	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent answer. I'll agree with him that it was most reasonable for me to understand that the lockback and support loans were not subtracting from the support loans. It was a very sensible and satisfying way to learn that much has been achieved by good ideas in the work of the Committee. I'm especially glad to hear it. I just wanted to come into a business in travel service. Now you wonder if they should be allowed to freeze a loan, if it could not be a way to help them over the hardest joint, e.g. that the state would negotiate with credit institutions for interest costs for the operation, and that, in turn, may be divided in half between government funds and banks. These are the suggestions that we in the Central category have highlighted because there are other factors that have special interest in these enterprises. These are the companies that have been the longest in their viral years. I'd also like to mention the real estate fees that can be very taxing for companies with no entrance. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. A senator saw something in this way, that there would be a way to freeze the payment of real estate payments from tourism companies? Of course, government funds have to come into it, society will not be able to handle it. But these are two things I wanted. A senator to enter, this domestic loan of the tourism companies and then the real estate fees.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u65	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. The Senator entered this with a loan freeze or a loan extension. It is natural that many financial companies have already offered this option, but I understand why. A senator is wondering if the Kingdom should have a direct approach to it. To date it has not been viewed that way, perhaps in and out of the fact that we are still a little question about how long this is going to be. Will the greatest downturn last a few years, or will it last for some year? I think that most of us are still hoping that it will be the first thing to miss, and I believe that the scope of the financial enterprise has been created by various measures where governments have helped them to get rid of money should be enough at least A short time. The other would be more likely to examine in the long run if the crisis was to continue for a very long time. On the other hand, with the real estate fees, we have already taken steps to allow our rural society to postpone the payment of real estate. I don't think, at least at this point, we should step in just telling the locals to charge their fees. Now, this warrant is that they can delay their fees, but it would be, as the senator recognizes, a tremendous burden for the rural communities to take that step and never be done differently than after much consultation with the rural communities. Right now, as the situation is, I don't see the fact that the communities existed in that conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u66	Mr. President. A bill of what we are discussing here is part of the measures the government has taken in countersurges or government failures in connection with the economic crisis of a pandemic crown virus as we know it. I would like to begin by saying that I am especially happy that more of the Committee has come up with a much-important modification proposal. It is a pleasure to see what I mentioned in the preceding counterargument that there has been good solidarity within the committee and some comments that have been made there. It's very good at this work that we're all in here together. Unfortunately, it has not been enough that the government groups have taken into account the ideas we have proposed in the government position. Especially do I mention that the media has produced adjustments, and we have advertised them in the media in order to get the attention of the government. In fact, we have sent e - mail to the prime minister as requested. Sadly, those who are sad have not been listened to. They've all been published, but some of them have come to us as directors' suggestions, and that's a good thing, yet they can smile at other things as to the fact that they don't seem to care about where the suggestions come from. It is clear that there have been good changes in the work of the Committee in this regard. The Central Party supports this as well as any other issue of the government, which is aimed at minimising the damage we face because of the viral epidemic. We made the changes I just realized because we believe that many of the laws the government has made do not go far enough. The problem with the government's proposals is that these are small doses that will not be of sufficient benefit in this regard to the loss of precious time that could have been used or that would have been useful to companies if these routes had been gone sooner. I remember the highest. The minister of finance said that it would be better to do more than less in these matters. Therefore, in the Middle Ages, we have emphasized that action is public and large in the unprecedented situation in which we live. I would like to encourage the management to think about this a little, considering that sometimes it's not good to be with small doses because we will miss out on certain opportunities that would have been more useful when it comes to these companies getting over when tourists start coming back here and the economy is about to recover, hopefully, not so far away. The bill's proposal aims, including to ensure that employers can get through the challenging economic conditions that all of us face. Many companies, especially those in travel, have suffered total loss of income and income loss, as well as no income from tourists. However, there are a number of regular costs, and the shoe is failing. The cost must be dropped. This company must get to safety, otherwise there is a danger of mass bankruptcy, and this will have very bad consequences for the article because it must be ready to leave as soon as its limit is removed. As a result, the economy is getting closer. It is also very important that the government's actions are clear and serve as the desired results. It is good to provide smaller companies with close-up strengths and support loans. The central category, however, believes that the volume of closing concentrations is not sufficient; it is more reasonable to increase the figure. In terms of the final concentration, they are targeted at an enterprise requiring closer closure by the health authorities and was published in a specific advertisement on which companies are or on which field they were working. It seems to be quite a boost to which company you can apply for this lock-down strength. We in the Central Party have been talking about extending this route. This has also been emphasized by the traveling agency, and I have been able to make a point of answering that question. Chairman of the Committee and other members of Parliament. I believe that restaurants should agree with this law because many of them simply had to shut down, especially in the country. We also see in the central city of Reykjavík that many restaurants are simply closed, and their managers are totally smiling. In addition, restrictions at meetings and so forth made it possible for us, Icelanders who are here, not even able to go to restaurants. The limits have been considerable, so it was not possible for business owners to keep their companies open, as in the catering business. Of course, these advertisements have had an effect. Many restaurants tried to be open, but they have not been able to do so. The result, then, is that restaurants have lost a lot of their business. Many of the customers were foreign tourists, and many of them were made impossible to operate on espionages and so on. No restaurants that walked safely will be provided at any rate according to Article 4. The bill, in effect, actually prevents it. Therefore, it is very important to examine the dilation of these closing concentrations. We are of the opinion that, under a scholarship, more types of activity should fall than the government's risk is low, as the earlier conditions for over 75% lower income will prevent the abuse of this law. Unfortunately, the measures aimed at supporting companies in tourism have been too slow. I think that's what many people think. This may be the problem with the proposals proposed, the government's actions package, etc., that the project has been carried out. We'll see, for example. The bridge loans that finally come into action right now. It's about month after this strategy was submitted. It must be tried to see that this operation is doing its best and speeds up, that it loses its mark, and that we lose precious time. Therefore, I hope that as far as the support loans are concerned, it will go far faster than the amount of time. with the bridge loans. Hv. The head of the Committee Óli Björn Kárason observed that he was hoping that he would now have cut off a nod so that these loans, loans would go faster. I certainly hope so. As for the banks, in March, many companies immediately applied for cryoconservation on loans and are just now approval for them, I have the authority to do so, so the banks have held tight as they wait for their Kingdom responsibilities to go. Of course it's been a hell of a lot for that company. In addition, it is strange that specific measures have not been required for tourists who are involuntarily badly affected by these activities. When it comes, e.g. that, if I go back to them, the firms that have been slided by advertisements, like salons and salons, can now apply for that strength. That's the best part. Today, these companies are returning with full force, which is, of course, very enjoyable. In other words, they are opening again, but they can, for example, be done. Tourism does not provide logical support for extending the closing power resources. I'm only working on the support loans. They're important operations, as I mentioned, and we're behind it in the media. We have talked about it, and we have thought it necessary to increase the limit of our income from 500 million to up to 1 billion. Now there's a big adjustment proposal to raise the line to 1.2 billion, which I am very happy about. This shows that the committee has listened to various viewpoints and has taken them seriously. It is a cause for rejoicing. We know and know that the goal is to maintain the level of employment and economic activities by supporting smaller operators who have experienced temporary loss of income. In the 10th. The bill is given eight conditions for which the government fund can guarantee the support loans. It is necessary to have a condition, that is perfectly clear, and if it is not available, it is expected to be abused. We've seen it happen, as I mentioned earlier, and in some way it may be written on it, such as by the part-change process, that there was a great need to speed up this plan as soon as possible. They may have seen that it could have been prepared a little better, and especially in terms of conditions to prevent abuse. How sad some companies have abused that way! It is written primarily by the managers of the enterprises who took advantage of this route without needing it. They are the ones who suffer the loss of their reputation. Of course, the same amount is to be reimbursed, that is very simple, and should be followed closely. It is natural that borrowing and responsibilities are required. On the other hand, I feel that there are oversteps to specific behaviors that lend money to the future. The traveling agency made a special comment on this in its review, specifically on the 4th part of Article 10. It is conditional in terms of payment and payment from loans made to owners. These conditions will be reflected in the loans of supportive loans. On the other hand, borrowers cannot be responsible if a borrower violates this requirement in a way that brings down the responsibility of a state fund. At the loan time, the lender cannot monitor the management of the operators. As a result of this condition, they become borrowers, they will be hesitant to lend the support loan. It slows down the system and works against the law's purpose to maintain the level of employment and economic activity. The aim of the loans is to combat financial problems and to put money in circulation, and thus the conditions must not be discouraging to creditors. This must be an option that smaller companies can actually use. ▪ Otherwise it's better to be at home than to go, to go, to say, "Come on! " in the review of the Group of Tourists. In number two, paragraph 10. The bill is taken at the management centre. This means that income in the 2019's was at least 9 million. K. and up to a maximum of 500 million. K. This leads to only the microcompany but not a small business. So it is necessary to increase this standard, as I mentioned earlier, and to make that conclusion a cause for rejoicing, as I mentioned. In the 18th. magazine on contracts with Iceland's Secret Bank. A minister is authorized to negotiate with Iceland's Federal Bank to care for the responsibilities of state funds on support loans, including accounting of responsibilities. Iceland's pay centre is permitted to negotiate with credit institutions for their implementation in support loans and their dealings with the Federal Bank, including the payment of government responsibilities on loans and the information granting of loans to the Federal Bank. I just want to make certain what I mentioned earlier, that it's very important that these contracts are moving fast and well and that we won't be in the same position as the bridge loans. I'm counting on it. The head of the Economic and Business Committee Óli Björn Kárason had the right to speak when he mentioned that we were working a base on the bridges that could be used. I really hope that the financial institutions see it that way and that we don't have to see the fact that this loan is so important that it won't be done until about a month or so. It is a precious time that we cannot extend and miss the opportunities these companies have to try to move forward until some income begins to enter. 19th degree. will then discuss the importance of monitoring. It has to be so-called time surveillance, i.e. monitors are under constant monitoring. A government review emphasized this when we met with her on a financial committee that it would be a follow - up. A policy of government also stressed that those conditions are to be disfellowshipped. I need to be sure, and I'll take my heart into it. Furthermore, a review of the Kingdom emphasized that when financial institutions are brought into agreement between institutions, they know exactly what they are doing and that there is no variation in financial institutions. However, there is a fault that, in fact, there is no matcher. Whether it should be handled by such a committee really does not. This is a defect that needs to be carefully examined. Finally, I would like to mention only that we in the Central category have provided suggestions that we believe are important in the procedures involved in the tourism operation, that there are general solutions. We've talked about freezing all the domestic loans of tourism until the end of 2021, extending the procedure to all tourism companies who have suffered a significant loss of income due to the virus epidemic, that the loans will be frozen from June 1 through June. On December 31, 2021, the state negotiates with credit institutions for the exchange of interest costs for operations. In addition, we had emphasized that the payment of real estate bills will be frozen for 24 months without interest, that the rural community thus freezes all the property payments from all the tourism companies to 24 months, and that the reimbursement will be on 48 equal payments, the first in 30 months. Here are some additional measures that we believe are very important. I encourage the committee to listen to and consider suggestions. Clearly, it is a good cooperation within the committee to examine the various ideas it shows in the changes that have been proposed by the majority of the things I especially welcome. Other than that, I rejoice that this matter is about to be completed, for it is of utmost importance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u67	V.E.G. President. This is where we'll discuss financial support to the company's less care for the pandemic crown virus, as the bill is called. It can be said to be part of the two issues that we agreed on at the council yesterday, some changes in further measures to face economic consequences, and with increased legal resources in a budgeted bill, including Section 6. Sources for support loans found in the bill we address here, and financial permission for the expected amount of closed management. The objective is to support smaller operators who have experienced a temporary loss of income due to the outbreak and the actions of the national government in the environment. Such support is available to defend employment employees, and we must never forget it, and to maintain the power of the sector and the economy needed. With this guide, I evaluate the changes proposed by the committee and the majority of members of the Committee, and all members of the committee, I think, based on the discussion today, support, though there are two excellent minorities that shed light on other factors, are important changes and greatly improved, although I am writing under the opinion of more things. A respectable president. The support found in the bill is one of the closing grants to the operator who was closed. It draws a line into the sand, and it is to be said that a number of indications were received from noncompositive sources but experienced significant recession because other businesses they are dependent on were closed off. In this way, there are limits to the level of activity, as well as the reviews of the committee that will be considered in the future and that will be evident. It is important that this should be monitored, and as the committee considers it wrong to link chemical resources and make changes where people can apply for both loans and grants without a loan loss. However, it is a supportive loan that guarantees that the funds provided by the Sentencing Bank will be fully reimbursed and provided that the employer meets the conditions set in Article 10. The bill. Most important, support, loan, and strength will produce the desired results, as I said, to protect jobs and maintain activities. So, with all those who have spoken up, today I agree that these adjustment proposals to expand the scale of the loans, sums, and bills are a major improvement with the main objective of the bill in mind. In the first course of action, we walked from so-called bridge loans, where the trust of the state's funds was up to 70%, and this puts a high priority on efficiency and try to limit the static level as much as possible, I think it's important as it is. To be sure, these proposals increase the scope of the action by means of a changed staff and budget. It follows, since a sum of 100% may cost up to 10 billion dollars. and up to 40 billion dollars. with 85% responsibility, which is in accordance with the primary objective. Thus, we may say that there is improvement, but it reminds us that there is an increased risk, and these are still loans to be reimbursed. I'm not going to go through any more of these changes or exports of them or the conditions behind them. That's what the Chairman of the Committee, anyway. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, very well. I want, like others who have spoken up, to bring back the cooperation that was achieved by the Committee and especially for the Chairman's contribution and the effort to listen to all the good tips. This time it went very well. Hv. paritaprevir Valdimarsson Valddorsson introduced the importance of transparency, and I believe that in all the procedures we have discussed so far, we have stressed the role in all operations. That's what I'm going to say, a respectable president. Here, two minorities have been introduced into a tax area and a low tax system. Suggested what? paritaprevir It is recommended that Oddný G. Harðardóttir exclude partners in low taxes. It's hard to pull a line into the sand there. I think that all of us agree in the princely act that those who avoid consciously and with open eyes of taxes and duties in this country should not seek public support, but it is very difficult to plan to rule out all the others who have potential grounds for business in areas that can be defined as low taxes. So I think the conclusion of the majority of the committee is a good, respectable president, and I support it. I want to finally thank you for your cooperation with the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u68	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a committee party with a bill-changing proposal for the protection of informants. After 2nd. we took the matter back into the committee and found a representative of Amnesty International, which received a review of the discussion. According to Amnesty International, a comment was mainly made in the use of the term "good religion " to be considered as one of the requirements for the protection required by the bill. The organization believes that the wording can be controversial and that its use can lead mainly to the motivation of informers and intent behind the exposure rather than the material content of the information revealed. The majority of these points point out that comparable comments were made during the past phase of treatment and have been made to indicate that in the term 'good faith', it is essentially that a worker has had good reason to count the information he presents as true but also that he thought for the public to communicate it and that he had no other means of preventing it. In addition, the majority of the reviews mentioned above appear to be due to section 2.2. The report on the bill entitled by the Ministry of State that was not in accordance with the subject of the bill, and the previous committee of the greater section was discussed. In spite of the above, the majority feel that it is wise to leave all doubt and therefore suggest that it be 1 mg. 1st par. will add to the definition of good faith. That definition should also be a basis for interpreting the requirements of other laws. The treatment was also suggested that the concept of good religion be removed from the regulations of the bill and be replaced with the very essence. The majority, as stated earlier, suggest that the explanation of the meaning of the term be added to the law, not as a reason for removing the term itself from the law. In support of this, the greater part points to the fact that the right to good religion is accepted in Icelandic and is to form an established standard for public protection in Iceland. So the majority do not feel that the condition is a failure to cause doubts on the court case. At the same time, the bill, the paper, and the explanation for individual regulations are based on the requirement for good faith, but by removing it from the standards of the bill, there would be an incoherent incoherentity between the articles and the rules in this regard. According to Amnesty International, space was also more needed to be defined by a 1.mg. 1st par. The bill of the term "employees " and put the organization to change the definition in a way that would reach individuals outside the standard working relationship between an employee and an employer. A major part of the report has been taken into consideration by the Agency and points out that the change in the majority of the committee's parts in the previous committee includes the groups that the organization believes the protection should include, which suggest that an employee in the sense of the law is considered to be a person who has access to information or data on the activities of the employer due to his role, including the proposed, appointed, appointed, an independent contractor, manager, employee, temporary employee and volunteer. Further, the organization suggested protection by the bill, and for revenge it should not be limited to informers but also to other linked individuals. The majority of the rights to protect the informants according to the bill involve not carrying criminal responsibility or damage due to the communication, as well as protection from the employer's unjust treatment. The more part shows that individuals who help with exposure or provide information support to the revelation can enjoy protection according to the criteria of the bill, that other criteria met, are involved in reporting information or providing data. Finally, the organization pointed out that the informants, as well as the intended informants, are protected from reprisals, threats, harassment, threats, attacks, and other types of physical damage. The majority point out that the above actions are punishable according to universal law, and all individuals are protected from such practices regardless of the introductions. In view of the above, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: After the 1st case. 1.mg. 1st par. If there is a new saying, as follows: A good belief means that an employee has good reason to count the information or information that is transmitted correctly, it is in the interests of the public to communicate it, and that it has no other option to prevent the wrongs or actions involved. Under these publications. Councilmen Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Páll Magnússon, Birgir Ármannsson, Árnadóttir Enrannadóttir, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Kolbrún Kolblönnadótir Andri Thorsson, and Þorbjörg Sigríður Gunundótir Gunnlaugsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u69	A respectable president. I'm trying to understand this adjustment proposal that appears after the committee takes it back to him. Now, the majority claim to reject the term "good religion " because the term would form an inconsistencies between what is in the Law text and what is said in the report. Actually, I don't completely understand the argument just based on what is being done by law-employers, that the legislator is afraid to change the terms of law-employed bills because changes could result in conflict with the report. I don't think it's quite enough reasoning to make a good and correct change in the bill because it's as valid as an article. As for inner harmony, I wanted to ask you what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir of it because this is the setting of three conditions for what the committees call good faith; that an employee has a good reason to count the data or information correctly, it is for the public to share them, and that he has no alternative to preventing the offenses or practices. First, I think that the third condition is narrower than the conditions found in the bill itself, but I also wondered if the committee examined the internal harmony between this definition of good faith, saying that these three requirements need to be met in order for good faith to be involved, but so have, for example, a good religion. of 2 st. the bill on internal exposure to other references in good faith, in which the steps of the informer must be taken in order to enter outer exposure. Was there a review of the harmony in the intervening process? It is using the term "good religion " in a relatively free sense in the process of change, I think, and this does not seem to be in perfect harmony with one another because of the fact that in 2 gr. It is said to communicate information in good faith. How does it rhyme?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. We examined it from the definition of the bill as well as the opinion of the committee, since we had made some changes, as I suppose it would be. A senator has read about it. Actually, the only disagreement in the Committee was that one member of the committee thought that he just wanted to take out the two words, good religion, did not have other comments in himself in the definition. We went over it with Amnesty, we went over it with the Ministry, and we had been very thorough and thorough in all this process so that I could not share that view. The senator's conclusion that this overlaps or that this is the concept because it is, yes, what it means: If we need to reveal, we have good reason to believe that the data is correct, that the information we have is correct, that it is stated here, and that it is in the interests of the public to distribute it, and we have no other means of protecting the public regarding the offenses we think are here. So I don't quite figure it out. A senator believes that this narrows the concept relative to what is now and the rest is entirely free.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u71	A respectable president. What I mean by being tight is that this is the point where the person needs to feel that it is in the interests of the public to communicate certain information. First, we have come to appreciate the minds of informers when it comes to the exposure that takes place, which is not the objective of this law. The goal of the law is to get information that belongs to the public on the surface. It is the job of the media to determine whether the information is relevant. It is the role of the internal organisation that the informant looks for to determine if the information is correct. It's the role of an external informant to appreciate it. Getting to look at what the informant's mind is just preparing the soil for this to be all about what the informant's basis was for exposing, what his mind was behind it. This is exactly what Pirantar and I have emphasized as to our concern. When it comes to setting up the informant's intentions in the foreground, the rhythm that has always been used when people take the big, important step of becoming informer, the entire focus of the focus, and the type of person he is, and the mind behind his exposure. Here are three requirements for the informer's resolve: First, he has good reason to believe that the data or information that he conveys is correct, which I find to be self-created and normal. It would also have been simple to enact laws that simply say that this protection does not apply to individuals who deliberately share false information. That would be the end of it. But no, on top of that, the committees want to state whether the information is relevant to the public and whether he knows the ways he has to prevent the offense or the behavior involved. [[The president calls.]] If we look at 2 g's. does it not work too well, since how will he prevent the offenses or actions before going to internal enlightenment?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u72	Mr. President. In itself, I don't have much to add. Clearly, we do not share a vision of this material. But I can agree that unfortunately, it has been that way. I don't know if it would change if it would take a good religion out of the bill, such as a member of the Porta Committee requested, that it be the focus of the informer when it comes to the public or the relevant companies. I share the opinion that sadly, all too often, the attention has been directed to the one who steps up and distributes information. But I don't share the opinion that this makes the person difficult because I believe that the person who has to share such information and become a informant for some reason has kept up with himself for quite a long time and is not just going to step out of it. He has information that he feels is beyond his ability to act in order to stop the behavior of the person he is exposing. I don't think this is going to end up evaluating the minds of informants like this one's being said is primarily underneath. It is always so, whatever the case, that we will probably take these steps only for good reasons. And I don't think that those who get the case in their arms, the authorities, and other judges and others like that will come to look primarily at the question of whether there is any other purpose behind them, since that would be expected very soon if that were so. So I think we've made a pretty good deal of it and we're hoping that we'll get some extra money later.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u73	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize the protection of informants. How happy it is in itself that the bill has come as long as it does during the council! Iceland has long had to lack the proper protection of the informants and the need to make it happen. For this reason, it is worth expressing the satisfaction of the bill being here. However, I must say that I was greatly disappointed with the work of the Committee between 2 and 3. because I find the matter worse now than it was before it was taken into the committee to talk to Amnesty International, who had refused to make a statement. I must say, I feel sorry because I found the tips that came from Amnesty International, which were just taking out the term "good religion', " to be completely justified and completely in harmony with the EU directive and the Council on the protection of informants, as well as at the European Council's recommendation for the protection of informants. But focusing on the intention of the informant himself is of no benefit to the informant himself. The requirements in the bill are already very clear, what it takes to do. I already think they're too strict, when an employee, as defined in the bill, may be exposed. The bill already has more conditions than in the European Union when informers may become informers. That condition is pretty clear in the bill already. It's stated in 2 st. The bill, by permission of the President: ▪ Despite the instructions of law, ethical regulations, or agreements of confidentiality, an employee is an employee who has information or data on violations of law, or other reprehensible practices in his employer's activities is permitted to share such information and data with a good faith in a person that may contribute to leaving or responding to the unsaturable or reprehensible conduct. There's a review of how this kind of communication can happen. It then reviews when you can go to outer exposure and are required to do so. But now it's going to be. The General and Education Committee to add the requirements that an employee should have had a good reason to count the information or information that is transmitted correctly, which I can quite agree to is a valid view. But I would have wanted to see it done in any other way, as I came in against why. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, shortly ago and will come back later. However, it is being added to the requirement for the public to communicate with them and to avoid any other means of preventing the offense or behavior. In 2 Timothy 3: 1 - 3. The article that I just referred to should inform the informants of information and data in good faith to a person who can help or react to the unsanctioned or reprehensible way of life. Thus the informant is being asked to first make sure that he has no choice but this one to prevent the offenses or practices involved. It is the good faith that is set out as a requirement for him to consult someone who can stop the behavior involved. There is a paradox, a simple paradox, showing that the response of the majority of the committees was not sufficiently deliberate. She could have taken more time to reflect on the effect it will have on other articles of the bill to improve the legal requirements for good religion, which sets three criteria for what it means to be good in faith. I'm sorry, there's a discrepancy in these terms, a respectable president, and I would appreciate it if it was revised by the committee. I repeat: A worker should go in good faith to someone who is able to respond to what the person calls a criminal or reprehensible behaviour, but first he should have settled all the possibilities for the officer to whom he is to seek, in effect, to settle for him. Mr. President. That's inconsistencies. And three conditions for good faith are not proper. If the members of the committee are so concerned about keeping their good faith in there because of some accord with the report, which I would like to repeat, that I don't think there's a good argument that the Council's fixed committee would use, because she doesn't want to respond to the repeated indications that the concept of a good religion is just not good, and that it conflicts with a report to change it. I wondered what the lawgiver's role is in this context and in the discussion process and if it's just a legal excuse that it's uncomfortable to conform to a paper to changing the defects of a legal law that comes from consultations. I think it's a strange vision of the legislature role and the role referred to here to improve the situation. That's the only purpose of this kind of treatment. There's a reason why the concept of good faith was a giant stroke in the European Union when the decree was prepared there because the focus should not be on the informer's motives, it should not be there. Instead of a definition of good religion, which I think first, is not keeping any water, I would have liked to see regulations that this law or protection does not reach a party that deliberately conveys false information. As a result, these evil parties are wrapped around which most of the committee seems to be so worried about taking vengeance to share false or misleading information with their employers. Then we would not need to be here reasoning on what good religion means, and we would not have to place three basic obligations on informers, to consider first the benefits of the information in the public and the benefits of the individual's violations or practices. I take comfort in the fact that the European Union's much wider decree provides better protection and is better aware of this bill than it is and will come into action at some point, hopefully sooner than later. So it does not change my view that the concept of good faith, as defined by the committee, makes me feel inadequate and is designed to weaken the protection of informers and discourage informers because they need to understand and know what is in the interests of the public to communicate and what is not. There is a requirement for an internal exposure, to go to the next boss and say: "My colleagues are, I believe, to break the law. According to point two. The informant needs to count the data or information correctly. He needs to consider it in the interests of the public to share it, and he must not consider any other option to be available to prevent the offenses or practices discussed before he consults what the bill calls his next officer and is the recipient of the information or benefits, and they are obliged to contribute to the failure of the minor or reprehensible way or to respond in another way to it. How's it going, Mr. Honorable President? It just doesn't. I don't know how many times I have to repeat it in this speech chair. I believe I have made it clear that here is an internal contradiction in the new development proposal of more of the General Education Committee and in the bill itself. If it becomes legal, however legal, it is impossible to consult the next officer because he does not fulfill the definition of the greater part of good faith. It's clumsy. It's got to be said. But now, at least the informant's protection is in. I hope, more dignified President, the courts of the country do not begin to make the intentions of the informants a key point, despite the fact that the bill makers and members of the greater part of the General and Education Committee are making this much of a priority. This must be the nature of the information that matters, the nature of the fractions being informed, as the bill says, by permission of the president: ▪ The aim of these laws is to promote the enlightenment of lawbreakers and others of questionable conduct, thus reducing such practices. Here, there are many obstacles to those who want to step forward, including some kind of requirement for informers to first make sure that they have no other way of stopping the law before going to officers who are supposed to stop the law. That doesn't go anywhere. Even though it was. I don't suppose a top-of-the-art Board of Education would want to deal with these indications now she'll soon realize the mistakes and correct the bill. A new bill, too, can be provided with a new report that can be in perfect harmony with having no good faith in it. Then everyone must be happy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u74	Mr. President. Here's a matter of action, and it's been treated in the General and Education Committee for the winter. A committee article lists visiting visitors and reviews, but it is proper to mention, as indicated in the Committee's opinion, that the bill suggests the establishment of a new court, a reargument that replaces the Committee of Re-Elections, which has been acting in the past few years. It is suggested in the bill that the judgment be made to five judges, of whom three of them will be judges, i.e. judges who are already serving at the three judges in the country, the district, the National Court, and the Supreme Court, who will be appointed after the advertisement and from the ranks of non-judges, former judges, or officers of the court, who will be excommunicated, as it were. The bill suggests that the conditions of private repercussions will be cleared away from what is now. Significant changes are also proposed in the treatment of re-repets to be taken into account in the case of a court rather than a administrative committee. The members of the greater section discuss some of the opinion issues raised in the work of the Committee, including the Committee, as well as those listed above. will consider comments on the right to repeat, as is called here, due to the release of international courts. To make a long story short, it is assumed that the solutions of international courts could be considered, not just judgments or judgments, but reconciliations, as mentioned in the committee's article. It is true that, as indicated by the original text, there are conditions and needs to be put in place for reimbursement, so that the outcome or release of a foreign court - the European Court of Human Rights or the EFTA Court is called in judgment - is not sufficient but also requires other legal requirements, a general requirement for the resurgence of the case. Similarly, there is no self - activity involved in this relationship. It must depend on an individual's evaluation. There is also reason to recognize, as mentioned in the preceding article, that a resurrection of a case is an exception according to the bill. In general, judicial cases are expected to pass through the judicial system, to the district, to the National Court, and after the cases of the Supreme Court, to be permanently resolved. There is a reimbursement, which is an exception, and it is only natural that there are few conditions for retake. Of course, a court hearing should lead to final outcome in any case, whether in a criminal case or in a personal matter, except in absolute exceptional circumstances. Regarding other opinions presented in this regard, we can note that in discussions with the committee, there was some discussion about the possibility of filing. To make a long story short here, I find it a reason to mention that the general rule is that the members of a judicial court are at their own expense. In private matters, the cost may be high; the decision to make a personal decision and to carry the cost. Of course, if a person handles a case, he or she will be paid in a legal way, and the State will be costing himself if you are acquitted. It is our decision in the Committee that there is no reason to make changes in the terms of the pa·rou·siʹa. I think there needs to be a pretty strong argument to be a general rule on the repercussion, but it must be a personal decision based on any assessment of whether he is likely to get his requirements whether he is looking for a comeback or not, and must be careful that there is no motivation for anyone to go back in reverse without having the rules in such a way that they do not have the cost if they decide to go that way. Then, it can be said that if a renovated record is taken back and that the judiciary system will be replaced by a general set of legal regulations, such as personal or criminal matters. The committee's opinion has only led to its release of judgments. It is largely assumed that it is in accordance with court regulations for the release of judgments and judgments. That does not have to be said to many. Is it true that, in the process of being treated, on behalf of the Re-Election Committee, there may be a basis for changes in terms of expeditation criteria in the case that it will be clear that a person is allowed to grant a request for a recurrence that seems to be falsely determined, i.e. It is not only a question of guilt or innocence but also a false punishment. Is it to say, in a sense, that a person has been sentenced to a probationary prison when there is no authority for probational punishment or something like that, or when a person is deprived of rights for longer than allowed? There is reason to explain this, as the Committee of Re-Electment suggested. Finally, I wanted to include more of the General and Education Committee suggesting that a postponing is suspended compared with what is reported on the bill. The bill assumed that the law would gain the value of June 1, 2020, but considering that it is now well into the year 2020, it is appropriate to suggest that the law take effect on December 1, so that all time will be set up for the establishment of this new court. It's a new institution. In this case you will need to advertise your judges and go through a specific procedure in this regard. It is vital that there be some time before the court operates. It may be that a reorganization committee will continue until the Court receives a re-election committee and will need a certain amount of time to complete the treatment cases. As part of the Committee suggests, with the changes made in a special Senate document, this bill will be approved. Under the heading "Apprehensible " literature, as well as" here, " w. Councilmen Páll Magnússon, Árnadóttir Kolbrún Árnnadóttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Ginsdóttir, and Steinunn Árnadóttir, Anna Kolbrún Árnadóttir and Guðmundur Andri Thorsson signed the committee's opinion in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u75	Mr. President. I want at first to celebrate this bill and what has been won. How important it is that we come here to a hearing court so that justice is under control and we are not letting some committee decide on the return of judgments! I also rejoice at the change the committee makes on the bill that more than outside the world can come to a review, that it is not just a judgment, but it is also possible for people to seek recurrences when decisions are made. is below. What I would like to ask, though, is why. There's a senator about the abduction. Seems to me there's some misunderstanding about the aggressor I'd like to ask. A senator in. It is said that there is no value in seeking justice for a resurgence court and that there is no need to be lenient in that matter because the man seeking his legal rights there and requesting a requisition is likely to have an attorney with him. I cannot understand the reasons why you can't get a license when you consult a remittal court.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u76	Mr. President. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has misunderstood my opinion and feelings, perhaps because I was not clear enough. Thus, general conditions of aggression can be considered, i.e. due to low income or such. I think the point of the view was that it would not be possible to enter the bill a special authority, a general authority, due to the abduction in this case. But the committee can, of course, look at how this is going to work out, just so that a common understanding of the Kingdom exists in this regard. I get it so that there must be a general rule that people need to carry their own expenses, so it is important not to be ousted unless there are special circumstances. I'll admit it. A senator comes to me a bit cold with this, so I shall gladly take this up on the committee again for an explanation and observation if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u77	Mr. President. I leaped forward to see the bill because somewhere in it it it shows that the general rules of the civil law do not apply in terms of grafting at the time of the Reconnaissance. It was only discussed at a meeting of the Committee, and I was so lucky to have the exact meeting because I thought it would be natural for the general rules of abduction to apply in these matters as well as for others. The general rules for abjection are so narrow that the person must have no more than 308,000 dollars. each month to obtain a license, and a husband and wife cannot have more than 4 60,000 dollars in total. per month for abjection. It is obvious that those with such income are in need of support to seek their rights and after going all the way, district, national rights, possibly the Supreme Court, and so possibly for foreign courts, I find it hard to believe that if people are not to be able to ask for a repeat on a court order that is supposed to have been dependent in some way, they did not seek their rights all this way when they came home because they cannot afford it, because there is no support from the state. I'd love to, if you know what I mean. A senator could point me out if I'm missing the bill, but I thought it was like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u78	Mr. President. I think it's right that we look at this on the Committee between discussions, but I think we shouldn't forget that it's the general rule that men should carry their own expenses. It is, of course, that if a person is victorious in judicial matters, he or she usually receives a legal fee or part of it. I think we need to keep that perspective in mind. Just to explain this, and we're a little intervening before we settle this bill or at least the process of understanding it, I suggest we consider this on the Committee between 2 and 3. But I just wanted to correct the view that I don't feel that reimburse the case will give you permission for abduction. I think it takes a measure of responsibility for men to decide whether they are likely to achieve their rights or not. The cost of painting should then determine where the cost will be final. But, as I say, to get a mutual understanding on this particular point, I suggest that we take this back into the committee between discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u79	A respectable president. I must thank you for giving an answer. A pilot has been in my class.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u80	Had it been?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u81	- If we've so far been in the same category as the one that stands here, then this answer will be subject to the subject. I believe there are many things in this language that I know very well. But I wanted to ask you what. An authority on issues involving the order of the re-election court, especially two. One is how it will be handled, as discussed in Article 3. The bill. It stipulates that a minister of five judges, three of whom are appointed for each court level. Was it specifically discussed on the committee in what way this choice would take place within the courts themselves? The report on this requirement includes Refer to GRECO's recommendations and tips for corruption by the European Council National Council on the lack of legal management when appointing individuals in all kinds of committees and tips, but in particular courts, such as judicial proceedings. On the other hand, I wanted to know if there had been any discussion. The General and Education Committee on the Argument to add two judges, outsiders, who will apply for the points advertised, and there would be additional work. [[The president calls.]] Was there anything about the possible incapacity of such individuals?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u82	Mr. President. I'm thinking about the first thing as easily as possible. A member of the committee noted that the selection of government judges would be by court regulations. I think it was made clear either to the committee or to the written information presented to the committee. I assume that there are clear and clear rules that apply to the appointment of government judges from the different levels of judgment. Regarding the two special men, if we call them from outside, a judge who's going to be appointed to the rejuvenate, then the proper rules must be considered. Of course, the individual may be incompetent by various causes. Of course, the same applies, e.g. of the Re-Electment Committee today, which has led to the need for security users to take their seats, and such viewpoints have had to be taken into account. I think the same thing applies in this case, of course, should be very careful of the qualifications of the judge. Of course, it may be in praxis a little tricky to find individuals who meet both general qualifications and who are not likely to become incompetent in a number of cases. [[The president calls.]] However, it may be difficult to avoid it in general, even if this is the case and in the case of secondary work in humans rather than the main work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u83	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u84	A respectable president. Yes, it is true that this problem has been faced with the Re-Election Committee so far, but equal to a administrative committee or a court of law is quite different. With the bill, e.g. assuming that men are appointed judges, and that this applies to proper, specific, and general rules, as is true of judges, as well as regulations, laws, and regulations, of the secondary acts of judges. I wondered if it would have taken me a little more than I heard. An authority to have asked for this and whether it is normal to avoid having outsiders in these things that, as you know, are all likely to become very often incompetent in individual cases, at least that is true of the lawyers who have something to do, if they intend to look to lawyers in this regard. Or will this mean that there will be a very uniform group of lawyers to be conceived, only some of the university community to sit there? Then perhaps it would have been better just to mention it here. I wonder what. One authority considers this to be a further consideration, as well as a matter of how the ones appointed by the courts are chosen. I have mentioned in the previous transfer of this matter to a council, in another form, that it should be especially appropriate to try to select these judges in a random way, not to select judges based on who made themselves available, but, for example, for example. this could be determined by lots, each court would specify according to the lots of his representatives for a particular time that would then be subject to changes regularly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u85	Mr. President. The suggestion expressed in this bill on the order of the rejuvening process can be said to be a compromise. We have seen in the past both during the council and in the discussion, other versions of how the judgment should be made. There, however, the viewpoint was at odds with the fact that it was a court case that organized the judgment and, on the other hand, the outside. Some of the members of the committee have, for example. claimed that it was natural that even all judges in the rejuvenating court were outside. The majority of the committee have not agreed with that view. Rather, they feel that as the bill is presented, there is a right way to compromise. Three judges, one of the court officials, and two of a particularly civilized judge in the rejuvening court, are expected to sit in each court. There is a compromise between different viewpoints, on the one hand, that there is an external experience in a judicial system. Those who are not trapped and appointed judges will come to this place. In terms of inadequacy, I don't think that there is any reason to believe that a large proportion of the lawyers are automatically excluded from this, but certainly it creates a problem when two judges are found in the court that meet these qualifications and are not likely to become incompetent in a number of cases. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u86	A respectable president. First, I'd like to commend a president for his gentle meeting regime, allowing the members of the council to be in opposition to each other even though they are members of the same council. I just think this example shows the need to explain the rules that apply to such answers because the exception that was given to go against members of the community is about when people are at odds and quite difficult to fulfill beforehand, that I don't think they met in these answers. I'm not going to make a special field trip about it with a respectable president, but I think it's a reason for a prime committee to look at that subject and see if these rules are overattentive with any exception, whether it should be considered to have them universally so that groups can never contradict one another or to eliminate these rules. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u87	Mr. President. In case of a moment. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson would have heard our exchange of words. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen would surely have been able to tell that our viewpoints do not match all of this and questions at the same time. A senator to me was highly critical. On the other hand, it would be easier for us to be in a situation like that. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, who never finds himself in the position of asking or asking of a member of the group. However, I am not sure that the work of the council would be better accomplished, even if such arrangements were in place.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u88	I come here to explain to the Americans what the exercise is doing. It's called ethic gymnasium. It's a discrepancy with men, but both of the senators we've talked about here are very shy. What's going on is that last spring was one House of Congress in the press. The chairman of the council said: "How can I prevent one of the council's debates from occurring in the future? Yes, we don't agree with them. That means that unless the members of Congress are in real answers, the anti-sponsor is introduced to the interpretation value of the Council President. There can be very few debates at the council, thus stopping the council. There are very serious reasons to stop it, but there are also sources in the council to stop and say, "The discussion is over and we continue. But they don't want to use that law, so they're going some way out of it. The most reasonable way to stop the debate is that the nation itself receives a lawsuit, that the people themselves can stop a case approved by the council, but the people disagree. Right to nation. Then there is no more justification for members of the Parliament for the practice of filibusters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u89	A respectable president. This is an interesting discussion that has started here. In the context of this decision, I think it sheds light on the prefect of the president's welfare that each decision depends on the judgment of the president. Congress officials are allowed to take advantage of counterargument with a member of the council or not. I don't think this is a good position, a respectable president. It's totally at the height. A president was born born because it is, in fact, the highest. The president who has been under oath for not being the same amount of fighting against all members of Congress, which I am referring to at the highest level. President Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. [[Up front.]] So it is shocking if the rules are not clear, and they depend on the well - meaning authority of a president who is not all trusted by members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u90	For this reason, the change made in the assembly, after several discussions that took place last spring, was in a way that the president was not authorized to provide members of the council, i.e. members of the same political party, allowing each other to respond unless it shows that they are at odds with each other. It is certainly a challenge to find out if members of the Parliament are really at odds with them if you do not see them, for example. In a fight out here or in somebody else's face. But in this case, the president decided to interpret this rule quite clearly, also because he does not consider it an attempt to compromise, allowing these objections.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u91	A respectable president. This is a third pass for a bill to legalize a reimbursement. In this case, it can be said that all things are already three. I would especially like to welcome the changes that have been made on this bill because the one here and others put considerable effort on us to stop the predecessors of this bill. Why did we do that? Because we felt that the welfare of the Court of Justice in the order of the court was too much for us on a previous bill, and we also felt that more of the legal remittances were not required, i.e. Those sitting in the courts already. We did not feel that it was a fall to build trust in a resurgent court that included judges even from the same courts. If, for example, would have requested a hearing from the Supreme Court to be more than a part of a court case that would have been involved. So, what a pleasure it is to see the changes that have been made on this bill and to think that at least it's possible to say. that our efforts against the standards of the bill must have had some success in these refinements here. How happy I am to see that opposition, protests, and hard work provide a better bill that can be said to be as good as anything. I can say I'm worried about what. Helgadóttir I'd like to see more about it in the bill. But I no longer worry about the independence of the courts as I had in the original version of the bill, and I'm no longer worried that the composition of this court would be lacking, and that the court's decisions agree to be just too lenient to the courts belonging to the judges because it has become so that judges outside the court system have become part of those who judge such matters, two outside the judicial system, and one within it. What a positive step that is! A respectable president. I just wanted to come up here to celebrate the success that has been achieved with this bill, and I'm glad we're having a review of which we can be proud.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u92	Mr. President. After a talk. paritaprevir I'd like to state one thing with the Ævarsdóttir Ævardóttir. In general, I believe that judges are and should be independent of their jobs. Our system of justice, with the potential for appeal and appeal, assume that judges revise decisions and the findings of other judges in many cases. For this reason, I am not concerned that judges in the remitte court may be officials, just as it is said. However, the bill shown here is a matter of compromise on that subject. At some point, it was suggested that the courts be two, but outside one. That led to a discussion both during the first winter and in the winter. But I would like to state that if we believe that all those appointed judges are somehow automatically intergaining the system, as it were, and therefore not independent when they make reviews or evaluate the findings of other judges, we are somewhat descended from what the judgment system is based on, with the possibility of appeal between courts, because it always requires that one judge reevaluate the evaluation of another judge.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u93	A respectable president. I want to start by saying that I'm very pleased with this compromise. I think it's the right landing, so we may not disagree at all. Besides, I'm not saying that judges are over their heads unable to reconsider the decisions of other judges, just not at all, far from then on. However, I would like to deny that when a formal review of the case has been completed, when a judicial hearing has been completed, it is a trust for the public to be trusted in the welfare of non-judgment people, although it is certainly a practical option to have officials in their ranks. Why do I say that? Because they have already gone through the judiciary system, and then they want to go back there. I consider it better for both the scene of the re-election court and the public view of him that foreign persons are involved in the matter of resurgence. They are certainly not let down by some means bring reproach on independence from courts or question whether judges can make personal decisions against their colleagues. However, we do know that a system tends to protect itself from one another. And it is often the experience of many, even if it is wrong, to come up with a negative response, such as. The re-election court is just a defense. With this compromise, I believe there are no perplexing reasons to insist, and that's well.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u94	A respectable president. I agree with what is described as the basis for this law, which, in short, is now the current law of No. 15/2013. They were put here in the history of the left administration after the collapse of the economy, in a kind of flags, I think it's safe to say, on a certain basis. These laws were set up by a special Re-Election Committee, a special administrative committee, which has conducted re-acquired applications until today. The race at that time was so great that the law even contained the law. It should be noted that the Re-Electment Committee could decide that cases should be repeated to them when the court requested a rejuvening of the sentence. This committee was then considered to be the Supreme Court, which, of course, rightly stated that it would not stand in accordance with Iceland's administrative committee, to hide a administrative committee, no matter how professional and independent she might be, as these administrative committees are often referred to today, would, of course, be out of harmony with Iceland's Constitution, or the state of court to hide such committees the authority to pronounce judgments that were rightly decided upon by the court. So this has been a problem, and after this Supreme Court judgment was issued, a requisite committee has made many requests and is described in a report that the number of requests has increased year after year, and the committee has agreed on any number of such requests. However, this has not necessarily resulted in a reversal of judgment or even the taking up of court decisions; it has since come to the roll of the courts themselves to discuss it, and it has been done in various ways, so cases have not been given any material publicity in the court but have been evaluated to be sufficient legal in the case of recurrence, i.e. not so it was significant. I agree with this, but there's no way you can have a administrative committee in that way determine if a review of judgments should be made. On the contrary, it has given a view of some kind of false security or unrealistic expectations, let's say, of the future treatment of a case that has already been ended in judgment. In this regard, it is fine for men to realize this, and the members of the left party groups that were standing that the bill of the day realized that it must be returned in this regard and to hide these courts again. Then there's a new court now, and I know it. This is the case with me when I was serving as a minister of justice. However, I had serious doubts about the matter as I suggested it, I can say it, and I accept it. It was kind of a government case that I presented in view of the need for these matters to be handled by some administrative committee. However, when discussing the matter at the council, a discussion arose, as well as a legitimate indication, that the order of this court might need to be considered. In the case I suggested, it was to form a possibility that the Iceland Police Association could appoint a man, that a special representative of lawyers would be seated there. I don't think it's a good arrangement for outsiders to specifically mention their representatives in the re-election court. Now it is proper to remember that this court does not state any judgment or solutions to the subject of the judgment, but rather only whether there is a basis for this, and whether there is a basis for revising the matter. So the change I've made here is moody, in my opinion. The three courts are expected to appoint one of the judges of this court or in this court, one of each court's dose, but the other positions of two will be published, and they will be appointed in a comparable way as to other court cases, with the application of a series of secondary jobs and general and special inadequacy rules. As far as the order I am concerned is concerned, is it possible for men to realize that there is a great danger that a very narrow group of people, who, for pragmatic reasons, can allow themselves to be assigned to these functions, will be appointed as judges to the rejuvenating process because of their special inadequacy? I wished for that in my own time. The General and Education Committee specifically discussed, in the case I proposed in previous councils, whether the procedure should be more beneficial on the part of the courts themselves when they appointed their representative in this court, I made a comment. And what? This case's executive described it here to me that, as mentioned in the bill, it would have been discussed and thought enough that the Court's office would set up rules for this afterwards and that it would be committed to the Court of Justice, a administrative committee, to set these rules. I ask why men have not wanted to have the transparency that is declared by men in this chamber and that the Lawgiver himself has only set rules for this order. Since the mood has not been so limited in the Assembly Hall when it comes to the general appointment of judges, why the high Council and the driving force might well be wondered. Congress officials do not trust to write down the rules about how to handle the appointment of these judges. I believe that it is best that each court would only cast lots among its judges, choose its representatives by lot, and then appoint them in this sentence for three or four years, or whatever it is, and then move on, one new one every year from the courts. In fact, I think that in our small community, where we're biting on every cent for needed projects, it would have been much better to appoint this reorganization solely to the existing courts but let it be the order of new individuals, actually increase the number of the appointed judges in this way. The pressure, as stated in this bill, should not be such that it would be those who are already beyond their capacity to take on the extra work of rejuvening. I would also like to mention it here and here, as shown in the report, that although I'm not flaunting, and I don't have to read like words of God, reports that are acquitted and sacred streaming from the European Council of Depravity, GRECO, it has been pointed out that it is extremely disturbing to see how the Supreme Court appoints its representatives in Social Affairs and more committees and advice. People have pointed out that there has to be some kind of transparency, and I've traced it here. On the other hand, I want a respectable president to come to the basic point the bill shows that as I feel it is urgent that men have in mind. It is the principle in Icelandic judiciaries and one of the cornerstones of the legal state in general that the ultimate judgment of an independent and discriminatory court is to end the issues resolved. They should be able to trust that if they plead before the courts, they will be able to end their differences there. In Iceland, three of us have a judgment level. It's a district, that's the National Court we started to deal with the failings of court case treatment in the Supreme Court, in criminal cases, that has not been asked for a specific evidence assessment. Then we still have the Supreme Court, which will choose matters to cover, issues that concern the public very much, of great importance. Of course, the Supreme Court is not to discuss traditional personal matters or minor differences if it is possible to say so. As a result, it should only be in absolute exceptional circumstances that issues are recorded. That is why it is in both civil and criminal treatment laws, in particular clear and specific which cases can precisely lead to the possibility of re-arraying a case. There have been very few conditions, and this is normal, and it is good, and it is justified that these conditions are narrow, but they are not universal. In fact, in the bill it is assumed that in private conditions these conditions are significantly enlarged, allowing for the reorganization request to increase. A report on how evolution has been developing in the past few years, while the number of waitings for the reunion committees has increased year by year, and the numbers of those waiting for a hearing committee has also increased. You can be sure that the re-vocation request will grow even more closely to pass the bill and I don't think that's possible. I don't think it will increase the security of any person in itself that a case that may already have been passed through three counts may be handled by another painter to wait for years after the fourth judgment level, and this is the case with a review of a procedure to determine if a case can be repeated. That's what I think. Senators need to keep in mind. The situation is, so you just describe it realistic, that those individuals who run their case in court and lose cases in court of appeals, land rights, or the Supreme Court, of course ask their attorney what they can do. Is there anything you can do? The attorney must, of course, say that re-application can be applied, of course, with conditions that the candidate does not necessarily feel compassionate or understanding that they can be tight. There will be great pressure on the lawyers, and they themselves, even some, can make it, and they will be able to do whatever is possible to receive judgment at the highest degree. It is only human nature, and it will lead to the cost of individual and state funds from lawsuits, not to mention the psychological and spiritual trials of those who have to go through the courts with their own delicate and personal issues, becoming greater and growing with this arrangement. I think it's important for a man to know. Some might ask, " What else should we do? ' Is this the only way? No, it is not the only way to establish a new judgment, a resurgence, to meet the requirements and sources that are in the law on the treatment of private and criminal matters, i.e. the right individuals to get a case back if, suddenly, new data that are evidently there may lead to a different conclusion. Of course, the right to protect is self - righteous. However, the 2013 law established here by the left government, and people rightly want to run back and down as soon as possible, there were no beginnings in those re-repetations. Of course, prior to that, requests for reimbursement were provided for legitimate, grammatical, and legal treatment in courts. There's nothing new. It's always been. That's why I might have been the most natural and realistic, but I'm not talking about what I mentioned in our small community that is trying to reduce the development, that instead of adding the fourth grade and increasing the number of organized judges, maybe some men should have tried to defuse the law of No. 15/2013 and return to the pre - Christian arrangement. The law was given here, as I mentioned at the outset, not for a small reason, but for a specific reason. And how painful it is when laws on general matters take place on certain reasons to stem some of the only problems that have now been solved! I'm referring to the Guðmundur and Geography case and to the discussion that was held in those years around that issue. But No. 15/2013 was not a progressive step in Icelandic history, and it is the right to abandon that law, eliminate it. I believe, however, that it should have been worth the discussion to leave it at least. At the first time, let the courts discuss repeated requests such as the courts have been doing since their release and from the earliest centuries, so to speak, and discuss whether there are conditions for taking up judgments that they have set up. Also, it should not be that by law such as this, the bill being fulfilled, the public is unrealistically expecting that when things are done in the Supreme Court or the National Court, if it is the last court to discuss certain matters, there are some possibilities for such matters even if there is something that is considered relevant to them. There are and still have to be very narrow conditions for reevaluating matters. Otherwise, we will not be able to live in harmony with one another if we are not going to accept judgments that will resolve our differences.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u95	President. I'm going through this for the first time. I'm not on the committee that's working for the case, but it's very interesting. I agree with what. A senator, of course, that it would be far better to observe the rules that apply to the appointment of judges and proper judgment. There are these three judicial hearings, if it wasn't the court office, as it says, that determines how it is; even one randomly chosen by the court of high court. I think it would be a better way. Regarding the other two advertised judges, see III. section of the Court of Justice, where this fitting evaluation must truly be performed and for committees, as we know well in the process that had taken place here at the time. I'd like to ask you what. A senator about what I'm putting my eyes in. It says here about the two that come from outside: A second measure of their rights and responsibilities depends on the VIII. section including the person appointed to judge 4 mg. is permitted to take up other jobs and participate in a company or a business enterprise without seeking permission of the Committee on Justice, but shall be informed of other jobs and their property in a partner or company. I thought the senator was saying that they couldn't be caring for other jobs. If that is the case, it would be good to make it clear to those who listen to us if it is understood from me that they can take on other jobs and such activities. At least there is a stone in the street that these parties can do nothing but do part - time work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u96	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing this out if I haven't been clear enough. It is true that the two men who will appoint this advertised office are expected to do so. In this they do not fall under the rule of the law that they may not do other jobs. However, they must take into account their duties, all their jobs, and they need to account for things between partners and others. All this information I give as an example of how this could lead to a small number of people who will be willing to do it except for some group of such as us that may be relieved to inform us of all these factors. Maybe a lot of people have a little something to worry about, I'm not saying it, but it's a little extra. I am, for example. I don't know that many professionals who are involved in all kinds of temporary jobs for and other reasons find it desirable to begin to account for all such activities in order to sit on something like this. Then we have a small audience, as it were, or a narrow group, who volunteer, and then I am not necessarily sure that the purpose of the law or of this arrangement is realized, perhaps to receive a wide variety of visions into the judgment. I feel much better that those who are appointed to be judges are appointed to the full, and we have, as I mentioned in my talk, the sitting judge, the judge who is well qualified to do this. On the other hand, this advertised office goes through a well - known committee, and I especially know how well it is. There you hear that each hand is against another in the order of the judges of those days. Nothing to figure out, apparently, that comes out of this committee, and men are arranged in a series of skills, that you feel in an impossibility way, but I don't intend to say that it is indiscriminately. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u97	President. I agree that the process that started at the time, and I've mentioned here in a talk - that that that's what happened. A senator, the highest. A minister of justice was offered a list of 15 people, although between the members of the 15th and 16. In this regard, it was indistinguishable that came from the judicial committee. But the proper procedure that goes into effect - a minister can, I was reading the law on how this is, by the regulation, adjusted that process. The minister is in the palm of the hand to fix that process, before and now, if that's not good enough. There is still a particular distribution in terms of the fact that a minister has authority under the law to correct these offenders. A senator is mentioned, and we discussed when she was the highest. Minister of Justice, these orders. Regarding transparency, informing about ownership in companies or such - we are here at council with a much larger obligation on transparency, far more extensive than this. In the Parliament, all sorts of people, a very wide group of people, from all sectors of society, lawyers, not lawyers; the economic status of people is different, education is different, yet we are even informing about our debts, that is the latest thing that has come into them. I don't see how people have to be informed about these very limited things, on business property, extra work, should narrow this group down to the point that there's a problem. I'd rather say it's an option than the other, but at least not a liability. [[The president calls.]] What does it say? In view of the need for us senators to reveal much more about our interests? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u98	A respectable president. There must be no conclusion from what I'm saying, that e.g. The attorneys will be reluctant to go to court in Reconnaissance, for men to be afraid of something. The nature of law - enforcement jobs, however, is that humans are committed to their clients. They cannot necessarily reveal their entire job or who they are working for at any given time. That's the problem. They would certainly not want to sit here at a council, many professionals, if they had to surrender all their clients. People know the drill. Then they would be put aside during the assembly. I think it's the monopoly that there will be a much tighter group that will be involved, but hopes may have existed here at the council by making arrangements to get someone outside of the case. Who will that be? Because the requirements for applying for these positions are so narrow, they need to be lawyers who can meet conditions for becoming government judges. It's just what I'm saying, and that's why I'm saying again that I would have felt better about having this government judge who's already working, maybe increasing them from each level of judgment, if you'd want 5 to be able to handle it, rather than increase them in this way. And as for the espionage committees, this advertising process, I call it and write that we have been seeing the results of these qualifications for advertised jobs, both in the National Court and the Supreme Court, recently. The results are surprising, quite remarkable. People who were evaluated as equally well a few weeks ago, all of a sudden, are just not fit at all. [[The president calls.]] Someone quite otherwise considered less qualified than that person is now best qualified. [[The president calls.]] There's no transparency in this, and there's overconfidence in there. A member of the Minister's Office that he can conduct this committee in this way. [[The president calls.]] It has proved true.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u99	President. I just want to, in the light of what I'm saying. paritaprevir As we noted earlier, O. Andersen finds that two of the five ostensibly advertised judges come from the outside to hear under III. a court of law, concerning the order of judges; for it must be carried out in the course of an advisory committee, and that must be performed on a certain basis. It says in the law, by permission of the president: The Court's commission provides the minister with a written and reasoned review of candidates for the office of judges. The jury's review shall take a position on which candidate is most qualified for the office, but two or more applicants are allowed to be equal. Other measures are set by the minister of the Committee to Refuse the Agency. A minister can have a wide bearing on how this is done. I just wanted it to come out clearly, but it also has to be done in advance, it can't be interrupted in the middle of the process or it's not good. Let's say that there is no way for people to gain confidence in the system if a single process of ordering judges, and so the rules or qualifications have been changed as to how they should be appointed. Then there will be the thought of a minister who uses his own selfish desire because he is not pleased with what came out of it and then the rules are changed afterwards. In general, it is not a good rule if we want to keep our faith in the arrangement. However, it says that another way a minister can set more rules about the work of the Committee. But it is possible if humans do so in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u100	Mr. President. I recommend to the Commission's list of changes to the bill to correct the animal import law, with subsequent changes, on the applied and insulation centres. The aforementioned opinion comes from a major part of the job committee. The committee has received a number of visitors to their meeting on this matter. The main objective of the bill is to ensure that a food institution has sufficient resources to enforce its legal obligation to control the spread of animal diseases in the country. With the bill, there's also some. Based on the design of the isolation of animals and the availability of the food source to imported animals isolated. It is then suggested that immigrants be given the option to send animals out of the country when the import is prohibited or to avoid transfers instead of immediately laid. It was difficult to be moderate in such situations that were not sufficiently guarded in the Law. The Agency's diary stated that the Agency is unlikely to be an increase in illegal import. In this regard, please refer to a recent Regulation, the import of dogs and cats. One of the new import criteria to meet is that the certificate is signed by the official veterinarian, i.e. animal doctors in that export country. Such an arrangement may be expected to reduce the possibility of forgerying data, making it more unlikely that animals that do not meet the requirements for moving to the country. The majority of the Committee agrees with the importance of average protection in decisions made and that animal well - being is guaranteed by law. Many changes have been made in the import of animals since the legislation was passed thirty years ago and natural that their regulations are routinely taken into consideration at the rhythm of the changed period. The majority suggest that the bill will be agreed with the following change, but there is not much material change: 1st Instead of the words ▪ they sent to the 4th proverb 1st paragraph. 1st par. Come on. 2. The words: "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. 3. At Section 3. a. Instead of the words "fell animals, " the 1st proverb, "mgr. Come on, let's go. Let's go. Let's go. b. Following these words, an animal's financial balance for the 1st proverb 2mgr has been reimbursed. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. 4. Section 4. put it this way: This law has already been valid. Hv. KINGs Ólafur Ísleifsson and Sigurdrund Páll Jónsson sign this opinion with a warning that this is done with confidence that it is done between 2 and 3. The presence of the Committee which can confirm that with the approved bill there is no risk of contamination and cross-infection due to the import of the animal. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of K. Gunnarsdóttir, an officer of the Committee, agrees with this opinion. Signed as the writer of this journal, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, and whyHalla Friðbertsson Páll, and Jónsson the Ísleifsson of Jón. I want to say right away that I will grant the wish of these two dogs. Councilmen taking the matter into account between the 2nd and 3rd. and respond to their request to contact the relevant contact to verify that there is no threat in this case that could threaten the import and risk prevention of contamination and that I refer to Article 1. The bill that says: Investigm, who are transferred without permission or released from transport missions, should be promptly plowed and discarded free at the costs of the applicant, so that there is no danger. However, a food - control agency is permitted to allow the immediate sending of such animals to the land to prevent the threat of transmission of infectious diseases. I believe that there is a clear statement in these topics, but I can agree to look at it better, that the members we receive, whether it's a chief animal doctor or who it is, will be better able to cross this factor between 2 and 3. I would like the case to go to the professional committee between the 2nd and 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u101	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to extend much into this case. That's what happened to you. The head of the pro board is the one standing here and what. paritaprevir Ólafur Ísleifsson, with a warning report made by the head of the Committee in his case, and I thank the chairman for saying in her speech that she will call on specialists so that there is no doubt that all defences are being maintained. This seems to be a small matter, but we still think it's very big if I just say, as well as it's clear that we'll follow through on this, that there's no way to be threatened by this bill's approval. As shown by the chairman's case, it will be done. And maybe just to say it at these times, where the world is on its side because of the viral epidemic, Covid-19, we should be more careful here at home. It may be possible for someone to import a bat, and if you want to take part in a moderate way in the treatment of animals, there's no doubt about it, this epidemic started in infections that are thought to be from bats. So it can happen in other species as well. But I just wanted to put it together. Thank you again for taking good care of this advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u102	Mr. President. We in the Union support the modification proposals of the greater part, they're all for improvement. We also support the changes made by the Pirantars, but we cannot accept that there are no clear conditions for those who make good use of tax seas and societies, those who put on complex and complex transfers to cheat on taxes, to avoid paying their fair share to the community, to have the opportunity for government support. We should best ban such activity. We haven't, but we have at least one. not to add these activities to the public. In the United States, we offer adjustments to set up these clear conditions for the state support that follows this bill that we vote for here. I encourage senators to say yes to that, it is a suggestion that is truly necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u103	Mr. President. Pirates and I support this adjustment. It provides adequate conditions for people with property in the tax industry not to be able to enjoy the state support that the bill brings to smaller companies and individuals in business. It is fundamental that public funds and any kind of government financial support are not given to a operator who uses a tax bill. The bill alone does not prevent this abuse of public funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u104	Mr. President. Here, the minds and hearts of the senators are on the subject of a tax bill. Ministers in the Iceland government have gone to great lengths and have talked about, of course, preventing companies from taking advantage of support from our joint funds because of the requirement for companies to have full and unlimited tax obligations in Iceland. Sadly, this does not prevent companies from covering taxes because full and unlimited tax obligations in Iceland is actually a prerequisite for the use of tax machines. So it is obvious that the person is making a tax bill that should be here. That's essential. There is no guarantee against taxes, not at all. Therefore, we must support this adjustment arrangement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u105	Mr. President. A group of reveries were slightly split on this particular proposal, not in their goals, far from that point of view. What bothers us a little is that we can't at the time that has passed since this will take place and until we vote precisely why this company will touch and which company will not. However, in view of the fact that the purpose is clear, and I support it, I will vote with this adjustment proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u106	Mr. President. The government is spending tens of millions of dollars helping companies in today's disaster. It is vital that they do so in order to have some form of resistance when these calamities are over. At the same time, tens of thousands of people and homes are also affected by the same reason. Therefore, we must insist on spending these amounts of money on our own that there is a high requirement for those enterprises who accept this help that they do not have a connection with tax cover or deportations.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u107	A respectable president. This adjustment is simple for me and the Conspiracy. It's about a very simple thing, about those people who've shot from money, those people who've shot from money, those people who keep their money in different areas than in Iceland, where it's tax bound to common consumption, actually forfeited their right to enjoy a common fund. I'd think it was there.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u108	Mr. President. I'm very surprised at how the greater part votes on this of course. Last night in a speech, I found that all proposals for money had been dropped. I honestly don't understand why we can't agree on this proposal of all the proposals, that companies that benefit from public, taxpaying, are not rooted in taxes. There is good reason for this change. I remind members of the Panama Documents, where Iceland's Icelanders had a worldwide record as they arrived at representatives of the documents that slaving there. Let us not forget that there was one law firm in one country. There's a big occasion to make a good living, and I really hope that your people of your left green, independent party and forwardees have come to realize how you vote here today. This vote is important, and it's amazing that you don't trust yourselves to support this new Oddný new Harðardóttir's proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u109	A respectable president. Of course, I support and insist that companies who have government support do not have property in taxes. It is certainly true that the administrative part does not support it and does not want to prevent such misuse of public funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u110	President. It was moving fast, and we had to act quickly and save what would be saved when we saw the development of the pandemic. We didn't know we could peel out the scrawl, we didn't know where we were. When this government was started and done very quickly, men appeared and did not do various things, such as. not to support companies who have just paid off a huge amount of money without bringing that return. The owners would also have to participate. It is understandable that humans overlook things, but it was pointed out to them. At the same time, the discussion pointed out that we would need to keep our taxpayers from taking advantage of the resources. We would have had to close the door for paying huge offers. We would have had to be careful that if the government brought money to the table, it might have to get some things or requirements in the companies, go some ways to make sure that public funds were not missed at this time. Why do people choose not to use the opportunity of my share to point out and bring solutions in this matter, the senators must make more of themselves and then voters when it becomes known that companies like the Blue Lion have paid off their money; 66°nor is now doing their business in the tax industry. [[The president calls.]] It's the responsibility of the greater part if he can't take care of it better than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u111	Mr. President. This adjustment is made into three joints. First, close concentrations are suggested in terms of the number of positions rather than the number of employees. It was noted in the review that if you compared employees regardless of your employment rate, a company with three employees in 50% more than a company with two full-time employees. Secondly, minimum supportive thresholds are suggested to be 4.2 billion. K. The current income is 9 million per year. It is the same criteria as the result of shut-down process and thus the smallest operators can have access to both parts of the talk. Third, a proposal is made to add conditions for support loans that failed funding was not being done in the legislatures.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u112	President. Citizens who listened at home on Álfheiður Eymarsdóttir review this move we Pirata may ask: Why didn't they just put these things into a financial and business committee? There is a time to close the risk that money can be taken out of the country's pots of tax from the population. Both right men and left men should agree that this money should be handled well. We have repeated suggestions to use the money better, making sure that they are not mistaken, that they return where they are to return, which also means that they need less tax returns. Both those who want to reduce taxes and those who want the funds in the state's budget can pay off to the matters we care for, to the welfare, to the health system, and to the like, should be able to agree on this. Ask: Why do you not want to do this? It is very strange, but when it becomes evident that taxation has been taken in these ways of the government, despite repeated indications and other factors, it is the responsibility of these agencies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u113	A respectable president. I accept these adjustments and, of course, support them. I'd like to say on this occasion that I think that there's a very good place to stand. I'd like to thank a financial and business committee, and I'd like to thank them. I'm the members of the council sitting there with me. I especially want to take this opportunity and thank you. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, chairman of the Committee for leading this job. The substantial proposals we're paying votes here to the point of expanding the ideas that the government presented for closing grants and especially the support loans. This has now become even more broad and broader measures for companies that have had a huge drop in income due to the crown virus. I'd like to say, sir, a respectable president, for the discussion that arose earlier that there was a careful review on the Committee how to ensure that those who use this scholarship and loan pay a total tax in Iceland. The adjustment proposals we further make are to ensure this so that the language pronounced here is simply not to be supported.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u114	President. We're paying a vote for a change in the budget of the Economic and Business Committee. This process is expanding the resources, tightening the timbers, and making the conditions stiffer to ensure that the resources will not be abused and that if handled, they will be dealt with. These are important and good adjustments, and I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u115	Mr. President. Although I support the changes made because they are certainly improving, they are not that in these adjustments clearly limit the failure to give up money in support of tax lovers. There is no law against it. [[For example, consider: It's wrong.]] There is no law, and all the ordinances that are set there--I wonder. Senators to read the terms before they vote and before they object that what I'm here to say is wrong. CC rules are in the legislation, they're to report annual reports, and they're to say who's the real owners. IRS is restricted on anyone who earns income in this country. None of this is new. None of this is a requirement that excludes the state's funds support for enterprises that use national societies and tax reforms. [[The president calls.]] Nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u116	A respectable president. We discussed this today and the adjustment proposed by a greater proportion of the General and Education Committee, where the concept's force is made even clearer. This is being accepted in Icelandic rights and established in the current standards of informing protection in Iceland, and we don't feel that this is a cause of doubt on a judicial action. This indicator protection bill consists mainly of not carrying criminal responsibility or damage due to the metaphysication of information, as well as protection from the employer's unjust treatment. Individuals who assist in revealing or providing information to inform them may be protected according to these terms of the bill, to other criteria fulfilled, if they are involved in reporting information or providing information.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u117	A respectable president. The Congress of Pirata votes against this transition, where we believe it to be an issue of conflict, conflicting with the subject of the bill, and putting too strict conditions on the motivation or intent behind revelation. This suggests putting too much focus and too much emphasis on the intentions of the informants over the transmission material and resisting the objectives of the bill, which is that information that is relevant to the public should surface. For this reason, we say no to this change, but we certainly believe that informers enjoy greater protection on the land and will say yes to the bill itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u118	Mr. President. Discussions on this subject earlier made it clear that several factors were needed regarding the common understanding of the committee of the subject. I think it's right that we take the case into the General and Education Committee between discussions so that we don't doubt how to interpret the details discussed in the preceding discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u119	Mr. President. This is a very necessary case, an urgent court of law to bring about a rejuvenating court. I'm glad that the speaker of the case called the matter in between the 2nd and 3rd. as it seems that only in these matters should not be given to those who may be in desperate need and only to this court. I don't think that's good. They need to be taken into account as well as others, so I'm glad to have the matter taken into account between discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u120	This case will improve the quality of the animal, and I will vote for it. However, comments are not written, i.e. changes made by animal conservation organizations and the colony of green vessels that put the welfare of animals in first place in their consumption, and has the head of the committee, hm. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, gave a court order for the case to go back into the committee between the 2nd and 3rd. in order to respond to the comments so that the changes can be completed. If it's done decently, it's just the most fantastic thing to guide the well - being of animals by comments from the one who puts animal success first as an organization in Iceland. I vote now that we can get the case into a committee between 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u121	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to a new overall telecommunication. A number of effective laws have gone to their own age and need a review, since progress in communication and services is very rapid at this time. The main objective of the bill is to coordinate the national rights of national communication protocols and ensure available, legal, efficient, efficient and secure communications on land. In addition, the aim is to increase consumer protection and options and to promote active competition, economic investments, and innovation in the telecommunications market. The bill is based on the EU topic directive from December 2018 on the European rules for communication, sometimes referred to as the European Communication, as the European Commission. This is a new foundation: a release of four older European directives based mainly on national communal legislation. The bill also suggests legalisation to introduce the so-called BREC Regulation of the EU from December 2018. It's about a European radio-computer group and his office to support him. The group is an adviser and a date-dating field of cooperation designed to promote a coordinated introduction and perform a joint European rules for communication, such as the publication of counseling and counselling. Along with the preparation of the bill that I recommend here today, the Department of Transport and Division Experts, the Ministry of State and the Post and Communications Agency has been working on the recording of the communication package in the EEA Convention. Authorising is a consultation course with the General Parliament and will be subject to successful implementation of negotiations with the EU on adaptation due to the contract. On January 9, 2020, a standard for communication bill was published in the government's jurisdiction on December 9, 2019, and was open to reviews until January 9, 2020. 14 reviews were received and included. take into account them at the end of the bill. By the summer of 2019, plans for revising legislation on communication had been published in the Enlightenment. The bill recommended here is large in growth and in technical sections. So I'll tap onto a big one and only mention major changes and novelities. First, I'd like to mention that the material on the stress scale is more extensive than in current communication laws, many of which are, in effect, simple and intended to reduce the number of pressure signals and complexity during therapy. Important newcomers are encouraged to cooperate with market partners and joint investments in building infrastructure. Those who build wood are named certain wills. Substitutions that only sell access to whole-stealed structures and do not work at a small level of sale can be said to be random that in such companies it is not possible to place as heavy a bill as on a vertical network of communication companies. There is also a new obligation, which means that the post-address and communications agency may have been unable to provide sufficient support for the separation of sectoral components of an upright company with considerable market value. Communicators with considerable market strength should then be able to provide proposals for commitment to common investments, separation and general means. Such an offer can lead to some relief from the provisions. Several things in this bill are about simplifying management and improving consumer interests, and I want to emphasize the importance of these factors. According to the Companies, for example, the overall price of phone calls and text messages is set for the entire European economy, and it must therefore be unnecessary for the post-communications agency to perform analysis on the total markets prior to hatching and to make a price decision. It's going to be a simple administration in this area. This is linked to the fact that the BREC Protocol calls and text messages in the European Economic Area, which are added when there is a maximum price for conflict in the EEA area. This change may cause some market users to lose their income, but consumers benefit from it. Another focus for consumers is that increasing the focus of consumer access to information and comparison between the price and quality of communications services as well as the control of business conditions. It is suggested that consumer communication services will be extended from six months to 12 months and that consumer rights will be protected. increased by legalisation of a package oer. In addition, services within the services provided by the current legislation are expected to be limited; consumers should be able to maintain access to data transport services that ensure appropriate network services and telephone service with specified quality. The bill contains various regulations that are important for communications companies. In particular, I'd like to mention that it is expected that between the ages of 20 and 20 are about the duration of the frequency rights or at least to the age of 15 years. Then the bill is suggested to open prices for expeditation and renting frequencies between markets. More important, the aim of the bill is to promote the economic construction of 5G systems in Europe, which will be the foundation for the fourth industrial revolution and the sectionnet. Me and the Icelanders have been among the leaders in recent years in the construction of communications timbers and are willing to continue to do so. Practical structure and security are the key elements that the government now stresses. 5G systems will become a central nervous system, taking into account the growing demands that many countries now feel are driven to do in order to improve the security of their infrastructure, including 5G-farnet services. Internationally, risk analysis is emphasised, and the services must not be too dependent on one supply or manufacturer of equipment and must be carried out with special security requirements for the centre of communication systems. The bill suggests that there will be a legislation on the security benefits of the development of a network based on reports and proposals for a three- whom a team of work groups will be hired, i.e. State Department of transportation, Department of Justice and Department of State. The directive was implemented in consultation with the State Department, Justice Department and Presidency, and in some cases it will take place. Based on the recent European Union publication's advice on how to improve safety of 5G-farnets. Among the defined tasks in a five-year communication program for 2019-22023, a new global communication rule is introduced as soon as possible. Therefore, it is suggested that at the beginning of 2021, the translation of new communication laws will be adopted and that the main policy of communication can be updated at a time similar to that of the continent. It may be evident that a global review of communications laws requires reassessment of current regulations and regulations followed by the sentences of new regulations and regulations. Finally, I'd like to point out that the bill is urgent and if it is approved it will contribute to the greater competitiveness of Iceland, increased consumer protection as well as development of an Icelandic communications market. A respectable president. I have now made clear the general subject of the bill and suggest that it be followed by this discussion referred to why. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u122	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers very much for their historical background in this extensive language about communication and changes in them. As we know, these changes are stable and faster and intense discussion has developed over the past few months and years by the 5GFFF. We have seen that conversation prominent in our neighboring countries, for example, in Britain a great and deep discussion that caused political turmoil in its time, making it into the British government itself. I'm gonna take advantage of this opportunity here and now to ask the highest. Ministers on what may be required in this regard in the future. At 87th. it provides the growing demand for 5G-farnet services, but at the same time it is important for Iceland to be in the early stages of developing and contributing to a good order when it comes to the 5G Farnet Service. The objective of the arrangement at 87th chapter as it says on page 18. 119 in the bill is a security factor for 5G-farnet services in Iceland, and a transvestite for as much as it can be developed today, since the security profile of the grid is still in the shape of international €. By permission of the president, the bill text says: Therefore, it is not fully understood what future demand may be. I'd like to take advantage of the opportunity to ask the highest question. A minister would have any idea of what kind of demands we may face in this future, perhaps especially from national security, and would he consider any reason to expand that discussion further in the treatment of the council on the bill? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u123	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for recording this. All this bill is a means of maintaining our competitiveness, improving consumer protection in this area, and maintaining the advantage or position that we have before us in the world in the field of communication. Like what? There have been significant international discussions, particularly in Europe, about the safety of the 5G service. It is just a continuation built on top of 2G, 3G and 4G and an essential part of the service companies on this market. However, it has been suggested that there are only three successful enterprises in the world on this market. It has been thought of as having a security problem if only by one company, and that the security network of entire national groups was totally dependent on one supply. That is why it has been viewed as a minimum of two supply solutions, i.e. that the system that would be created would be at least from two of these three supplyors, even all three, to maintain competition between them and ensure that one company does not overdependent. It has also been suggested that due to public or national protection, it should be ensured that because it becomes a central nervous system of 5G, certain parts may have to be defined by national security. It's probably a matter of time before the committee breaks down a bit. [[The president calls.]] As shown in the bill, it has not been fully understood exactly which parts of it were. They're developing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u124	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer to my answer. He introduced what I was going to do in my second answer, which is exactly this international teamwork when it comes to the security factor in the 5G Farnet Service. As described in the bill, especially around 87. See, these parts are connected to the National Security Team. As vice president of the State Department, I am very interested in seeing how we will then continue to cooperate with these issues as they relate to security and defense. As you will see, 3 mg. 87th par. suggests that a minister who handles telecommunications according to the President's decision may, in fact, be advised, that the secretary of state and defenses, public security and law enforcement, be in charge of the regulations of equipment, such as the Supreme Court. A minister entered, which is considered sensitive in terms of the public interest and security of the state, or that there is a distinct proportion from the manufacturer in the state to which Iceland works on security. V.E.G. A minister came to the end of the answer into the development of international cooperation, and based on the safety issues, I would like to get past the highest level. A minister of Jehovah's Witnesses whether he believes that when it comes to our national security policy, we need to put communication issues first, as we see in today's epidemics after Covid, that we may not have handled these factors properly when it comes to national security. I wondered, though, if he can see that by using this fast technology through telecommunications, communications service 5G, he really needs to increase the importance of national security and more targeted telecommunications.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u125	A respectable president. International security issues and weaknesses are one of the biggest threats we face in our area for various reasons. We know the discussion of bad news because people are planting misinformation. We know the attacks on business and the delicate parts of our systems. However, I would like to say that we did quite a lot at the council last year by agreeing to the Nice Directive, the network security bill, and when it takes effect of September 1. We have a basis for doing much more. We have been doing things at the same time, and only the Ministry has been improving our knowledge in cooperation with a technical school in Norway. We got Oxford University to file a report, and there's indications we've been working on the bill. In the law of September 1 we are strengthening the Internet security forces. We're promoting the post- and communications agency, setting requirements for an important company, so we're doing a lot of things in this area. Of course, when it comes to 5G, it needs to take into consideration what the European Union did at the end of January, to publish some kind of toolbox called where there is a lot of work to do. Of course, we will look to our neighboring countries of the North, but we do not have the same national or national security agencies as most of the other comparable nations. That's why we're putting this environment into the telecommunications Act here, but we're taking this cell phone. Of course, we will see how our neighboring nations and associates in international politics are doing this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u126	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. Minister for this important bill, which I have not managed to read through, is very extensive, as the minister went over. I may be in places similar to what I'm looking for. paritaprevir Rósa Brynjólfsdóttir Bryenlfóttir, who was before me, gave me special consideration to the national security. I know that in this bill, there are a lot of really good and important things. Like I say, I'm so glad it's done. For some time, I've been concerned about our national network security. It's a good thing that Oxford University was brought to make this assessment. There were, of course, 120 recommendations for improvement, and as a minister's fine answer has, of course, taken part in our communications policy and the setting up of European rules on this. I've also been a little worried about it, and the Minister only brought in, how extensive the seminar is, and about many departments and many administrative units. Then you will always be afraid only because somehow the administration will stop to get stuck only in the silos. For example, at Oxford University's advice, education and online security education were specifically referred to, both as important as the fact that there was a strong and good university education in this field and as much as a re-education and course. I imagine it would fall below the highest level. As a minister of education, it is important that this work be accepted into the Ministry. Also, the Internet security and Internet crime are new forms of criminal activity that are largely behind the Ministry of Justice and the Police, so it is very important that somehow a network of Internet security teams can cooperate with all the lawsuits. For the discussion of the 5G high - speed network, we can see - now I've worked with the International Committees of the Parliament and worked a great deal with the Faeroe Islands and Greenlands of the West African Council. We have a very disturbing example of a direct threat to skilled officials. There is great interest in the structure of all kinds of infrastructure in Greenland. We are a northern kingdom, and communication in northern regions is an enormous security issue; it is important to ensure a successful northern residence. I hope to the highest. So a minister doesn't take it, so I'm here to criticize the bill. In fact, I'm just encouraging us in this council hall and especially in the middle of nowhere. The environment and transport committees to cover the situation very thoroughly and carefully. I simply wondered, " Is there not a definite touch type at the same time? ' State Department. Just like the highest. The minister came in is also a national security case. I discussed this in my talk with the highest degree. Secretary of State, who moved his report here last week. No one is aware of how big and important this matter is, and we hear it all around us. I'm glad to hear the highest. A minister specifically speaks of us following the North countries, our main neighboring countries. I heard you were at the highest. Secretary of State did too, and I think it's a good party to be at, if you don't mind me saying it in this way. We are in all kinds of international cohesion and online security activities, but there is a wide range of internationalities and national security concerns there are always some limits to how it can be introduced into such international cooperation. I think the territory in the North is a good setting for this discussion, and it's important to keep an eye on what's going on there. It's just like that, so you talk like that, which you can see in news media that these states have special forces or armies, some of those in the states of the North, specifically warn against the Chinese giant Huawei and fear him. The government quotes what I know best about making no choice but that it is normal. I know these people are at the top of the development of such devices, and as a result, their communications companies have chosen software from them. Naturally, a company has the best market, but that's why I think it's necessary to have some rules and to ensure that our laws and rules always apply and that our communications system cannot be used for some other purpose. I just wanted to say something. I think we need to take a closer look at this discussion. I remember the report at Oxford University at the time I arrived at Congress, the fall of 2016, perhaps 2017. We knew that we were back on the Internet security issue. We have been ahead of time in terms of evolution, not in safety, but in communication. I have no doubt that the measures we've had in the past few years are a great improvement. The problem, however, is that this world is developing so rapidly that we need to do the same in order to follow what is happening there. V.E.G. The minister only introduced it, and I also discussed it only with the secretary of state, that it is so important that we ensure that there is an institution here, that there may be an Internet security unit, police members, or something like that, with sources and special forces abroad. I mean, of course, I'm referring to the fact that we're a nation without arms, and I'm proud of it, but this knowledge is within the regiment, and it has the authority to respond. When it comes to such things, I fear that we are in some way behind, and that is why I think it is very important to work with our best friends in the North countries. We especially need to bear in mind that our structure and defenses are not quite comparable to those in Norway, Sweden, and Denmark. I'm not going to have it all any further. Thank you. I'm going to go see what I can do. The environmental and transport committees have been sufficiently involved in reviewing this great and important document. I agree with the importance of getting paid, whether it's all or any part of it, because when it comes to national security, we can't wait long.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u127	A respectable president. I thank you for the talk and will respond only to a few points in it. In terms of the Internet security problem, it is quite true that these are growing projects, and I just want to say that many good things have been done in this area. However, we need to do better and more, and the law will be greatly improved in terms of September 1. This means that various organisations, companies, and organizations that are listed under important infrastructure will need to take steps to make themselves more secure and may be working on it. In turn, the post-and communications and monitoring agencies play a key role in strengthening the safety of those who need to be monitored. The U.S. Department of Network Security for the Post and Communications Department will be strengthened, increased roles and more money that are especially involved in the network security. She'll be built up to deal with this. The network security board has a high level of cooperation and co-ordination. In fact, we have set up targets for network security in a communication program and are working accordingly. It is true that this has been shown to be done, even as it is done. based on the report from the University of Oxford. I wanted to mention with our education because we learned in our relationship with Oxford School and the technical school in Norway that it was just a great deal of wanting to come here and hold this course. It was an intense demand that came as a pleasant surprise. They did just because they wanted to share the knowledge with us. We stayed here on the Internet safety moon in October, and it will probably be on a yearly basis in cooperation with other European countries. The Ministry held here an Internet security match that a lot of people participated in, and that way we may be interested and seeking a little demand to participate in all of this. I think we just have to admit that there's a new field that needs more attention than we've seen in many years. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u128	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. I am happy and happy to hear this. I agree with the last word. Minister, there's so much going on that even if we've been doing a lot of last semester, we need to keep our eyes on the matter. This is an aspect that we have allowed ourselves to overlook for too long. It may just be normal, we sometimes feel so safe on our beautiful little island in the Atlantic, but it's not like that. Crime flows from the Internet to Iceland as well as the rest. It's important to keep your eyes on the ball constantly. I'm glad to hear it from the highest. Ministers and think there is much to do exactly this professional knowledge and demand for it as well as interest that is good to hear of. I remember also reading about it in these points that when it comes to Internet security, special references were made to a clustering job. Then, whether in Norway or in the United States, it is good to have good friends to help us do that. You can also feel it in companies, especially the bigger ones, that now they realize how important it is. There's a huge amount of money at stake, and I think Iceland's companies have made a big mistake when it comes to watching out for Internet security. I'm not supposed to let it go, and I'm glad to hear what a minister has to say and encourage all of us to keep up this discussion because it's extremely important and she's in the race. There's so much happening in this world.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u129	A respectable president. I come here primarily to highlight what we're discussing here, a bill for communication, which includes a full reexamination of telecommunications and telecommunications, telecommunications services and communications networks in this country. As we have seen, this is a very important subject that will truly be a challenge to the environment and transport committee to cover and examine fully. The bill is contained in 16 chapters, over 100 articles, and the document with a report is 135 pages. As mentioned earlier, I think that most members of the council have not read it by now. There are also many areas of society. This has been a significant concern for national security and ties to the foreign - language committee. I thought it would be very good for me to see them deal with 1st. taking them along with me into an environment and transportation committee. But I also find it very important to bring up the public defense role involved in this bill and to point out that this is exactly what has been happening on things that have been very involved in the winter after winter's storms. Back to the 99th. directly new sources are available to better use communication systems, whether because they interfere with security exchange or to ensure communication where there is a loss of service for some reason. It really seems to me that there is something new. One of the things I've really noticed in the Code, which is the name of the bill, when it has been discussed, is that the environment, this law section, ensures that the flexibility of the European Regulation, will become available in Icelandic legislation to provide information on practical development and cooperation with the structure of the infrastructure. It is emphasised on cooperation, where appropriate, but basically, the whole system is still based on competition. These inducers may apply, e.g. can encourage unity in the rural area to build a foundation on which competition is so based. This has been a big topic discussion in connection with various aspects of the environment and transport committee over the last two years and will probably be discussed more on this subject. The consumer protection is also a large part of this bill, and it is important to examine fully how it comes all the way to consumers. As already mentioned in the discussion, the Environment and Transport Committee has discussed and the Congress has delivered a very important communications period during this term, i.e. The Nice Directive, which says the Internet security issues that are about to take a new course this year. Then a telecommunication program was completed last year, which is a very important foundation for all developments in telecommunications in the country. One of the first matters we handled during our current council was the practical structure of communication wood. These are all very important matters, a case that we at the Council must be well considered and time and work on and interested, as presented here. We've been close to communication, and we're supposed to be. It is important that we rapidly implement these legislation because it is the basis for development and security and one factor in ensuring the competitiveness of the country. I'm going to say, though, that I don't think we're going to be able to complete this case at the council, but it's very important that we try it, explore it, get it, and consider it, even though it might not be done until the fall election. At least I will contribute to making it as far as possible during the current council. One of the factors to be considered, as noted in the discussion, is the risk assessment of risk assessment, how the systems and communications are determined by various external factors, whether natural risk, not becoming too dependent on one manufacturer or in some way too dependent on certain factors. Part of the safety is having sufficient connections to other countries, and so does the system within the country, not for false security, but for the real security on which we all depend. Then I, a respectable president, intend to leave this discussion to my 1st. finished, but I'll be waiting to get some information to the environment and transport committee and discuss the situation at that point.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-12-102.u130	Mr. President. Here is a big, big case that has considerable cover and may be overshadowed by other issues these days. I suppose the matter will be very much discussed in the council's work, especially on the Environment and Transport Committee and possibly on the Foreign Affairs Committee. As indicated by the Senate case, it is desirable to do what is right. A foreign - business committee would discuss these matters too. I haven't had much time to study, but I looked through it the other day. Here I am without glasses, and it's not getting better. What I would most like to bring to the attention of this case is 87rd. which I think is extremely important and really needs a big, powerful coverage at the council. It is, in fact, one of the basics of the future. The report on page 87 of par. is a sentence I'm going to get to read, by permission of the president: 5G-communications are expected to become a future central nervous system (CNS). It's put very well in this one sentence. This refers to the future central nervous system, which is extremely important. On the basis of national security, in the years and decades that follow, there is a fundamental issue. This has been a major subject for the NATO Council and, of course, in various parts of the foreign work of members of the Parliament, which is involved in these matters. Cyber Security Network Security Agency, Tallinn, has been there for a lot of discussion. Another similar facility in Helsinki presents a security issue related to these issues. It's informative, and I agree with the views presented earlier that we can look to the northern countries in cooperation in the online security issues of the scale mentioned here. These are the delicate issues of international cooperation that require much for nations to work together closely in these matters. In NATO, you may feel that not all 50 countries are ready to work on these matters in the near cooperation we need to see. We are a small country, and we have considerable confidence in cooperation with foreign countries, the northern countries, and in line with the Holy Lands, as they have been able to cooperate with them. They are eager to work with the North countries. Then I'm talking about Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania. We will see how these matters have been discussed in the United Kingdom. Britain had a strong discussion of 5G, including some of them. until the British put some kind of barriers or wanted to be very careful with what they call the core of the 5G system, which would be 35% of the system. I suppose the Environmental and Transport Committee will take into account what has been going on in neighboring countries on these issues. This has to do with so many things, whether they are Internet attacks or false stories, and such things. It's a pleasure, and it was a very good job with the Oxford report that appeared not so long ago with focus there. Then there is the point of communication in the north. This is so big and so big in this context. When we talk about the future central nervous system in this country, this is, if I recall correctly, the amount of data that can travel 5G to 4G in laptops or cell phones. This is enormous. I'm not going to go into this any further. I think the biggest discussion will be around 87th. and what is stated in 1st. 2 mg. hers. In 1st. the terms in the Law are considered to be the development and development of mobile and mobile systems and how to deal with public and safety risk factors. I'll call attention to what. Parliaments in particular at what it says. This is an important subject, as the Senate shows, 135 pages. Although I haven't been through everything on the bill, I feel that it's appropriate to say that I hope to pay attention. This will be the case with members of Congress because this is an enormous task. That's one of the big things we need to deal with at the council.
