ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u1	There have been letters received from the following advisers where the request is made in order to give written answers to queries: From foreign and development co-worker to wish to inquire. 1142 on a ground plan of action, from Friðbjörg Furbjörður, the daughter of Elíasdóttir. From the Department of Social Affairs for the Sports. 1369, on the work of the U.S. National Insurance Institute for Correction of the Penitentiary of Microenergy lovers, and onjaw. 1327 on NPA contracts, both from Halldóra Mogensen.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u2	The president considers that a meeting meeting can last longer than the Congress puts it, so unlikely that what may not be needed will be needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u3	V.E.G. President. The services of health care organisations who carry out the services of nursing homes and habitats have helped to maintain infections from nursing homes in the Covid flag. The cost has been high. They have had to make their home an apartment out of a two - foot [6 m] order and thus be taken from the state because of the less use of residences. The government will not pay for the services of residents unless they are new so that the use of space for Covid has reduced the income of a nursing home and has worked on a lot of extra work. In the past of the present government, there has been a dramatic decline in daily nursing expenses despite the clear promise in the government covenant of another. Corrections have been sought, and the change has been made. Intriguing is the difference between day - to - day expenses that the home receives from the State, Land Hospital, to run Vifils, and to have a community of welfare services repeatedly pointed out the difference. A nursing home in Iceland and their workers have shown this and proved by the time of the Covid-19 each quality of their work to be done in a nursing home in Iceland. Compared with many neighboring countries, the situation in nursing homes in this country is striking. The nursing staff should be thanked. It is proper to note that the homes were able to arrange for hospital stress, especially in Land Hospitals, to be less than expected. The work form of many homes within the so - called spontaneous structure has proved its value over the years and decades. The government should not operate in such a business, although it would certainly be good for the ministry. The services community has proved its right to exist by its conduct and interest campaign for nursing homes, away from the backlands and management. The communication between the state and the household should be further structured so that consultations and cooperations will be ensured in the best and most clear way toward the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u4	Mr. President. The situation in the United States is more than tears. America has long promoted the American dream that is solidly supported by democracy, human rights, freedom and equality. Individually, by hard work, people can make their way up from poverty to their own prosperity. The fact is, though, that large groups of people have a hopeless position that is difficult to get out of. One form of this discrimination is repeated police abuse, now the last murder by police at George Floyd. Certainly, racial prejudice is not limited to the United States. It also thrives here, and we, of course, need an army arrow to destroy the bad things that Rasism is all over, even in Iceland. But the international community must also be afraid to let Americans hear it when appropriate. Although we Icelanders are few, we have a voice that is noticed and should be used when we are in great need. We have, for example. conducted in the United Nations Human Rights Council, where we have criticized the violations of human rights in many countries around the world. Now simply, we have bones in our nose to talk to the Americans with two rams. Therefore, I encourage governments to criticize the deep - seated discrimination that has been practiced in the United States for 400 years, as well as to criticize the response of a present president who promotes divisions and makes things worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u5	A respectable president. In answer to the 1st. the following year, the secretary of finance said that they did not trust to bring up a plan for the next year and the years until the fall. This was what one minister of finance said after asking what are the issues of postponing financial and financial contributions until the fall. There is something significant about the fact that uncertainty is called a grammatical reason not to promote financial and financial policies when the purpose of financial and financial programmes is to reduce uncertainty. In particular, public finances should be based on sustainable, carefulness, stability, firmness, and transparency. And how can putting off a course and a plan designed to achieve those goals be a serious reason? They didn't trust themselves to bring in a plan, says secretary of finance in the government to promote political trust or, as states around the end. in the Treaty: Governments where groups of political restraints, from left to right, try to add a new tone, isolate themselves into the key projects that come in front of Iceland, making it possible to live here and work for young and old. This is where I replaced the word "tegaff" for the word "secures," because that is the more precise, the only color of this sector of the government is an ironless hold that produces no policy, not relying on it. Incarceration is a political stand, a political act of doing nothing except the essentialst things, and it stays only late and more necessary. Why should we have politicians who have the goal of doing nothing? Why should we be involved with politicians who do not trust to face uncertainty with a course forward?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u6	V.E.G. President. Self - control is a concept that we use, and it is an important reference when we make decisions that will inevitably have consequences for many periods of time. In the foundation, we have the fundamental sense that our decisions today do not cause such damage to future generations. This is certainly true of the use of resources but also applicable to the financial situation, the decisions we have been taking in the past few weeks, fast, financing, in the face of great uncertainty, both in response to Covid-19 and in order to provide resistance to this condition. A recent paper from OECD that deals with government operations with a massive injection of funds to protect the well - being of households and businesses does not involve the need for these measures, but the emphasis and incentive to ensure that transparency and perspective are being taken, as well as the importance when we get out of this situation to ensure that the state's budget is moving rapidly to a sustainable level. We live, a respectable president, that responsible financial management of the past malarkey, a subsidized state funds, and a trust in government funds with a policy baseline law on public finance, where one of the key principles is sustainable. In the context of the state's budget, it is sustainable because public commitments are more manageable and long-term and do not place unreasonable burdens on future generations. It is also written in the law that the total debt should be less than 30% of the gross domestic product and the above should be averaged down every three years for at least 5% a year. A respectable president. We're going over the debt line, that's clear, probably more than 40% for the public overall, but the sustainable road will be successful and manageable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u7	A respectable president. It is spring west, and the Westerners recently hosted a spring district convention. One of the suggestions approved brings attention and attention to the interests of the territory. It provides tremendous optimism. A marine economist is called upon to promote changes in the laws on fishing management, and it is cited in February. for review of treatment and provision of a given percentage of labour sources of approximately 5.3%. The design of the group includes the disintegration of line integration to be distributed as a general mobilization in accordance with the share of individual settlements over the past few years. Over 6,000 tons have passed for many years to develop a hand - sharp line that has enabled them to catch 20% more than the saying of the eater. Today, there has been a dramatic change in the development of lineboats, wanting the Western population to have 6,000 tons distributed to the communities that used line design to build up and expand in various fields, not necessarily in the fishing road. The estimated value of these resources is in the range of 5◯7.5 billion. It will be fascinating to see how a sea - out minister responds to these suggestions, but, as we know, he will defend his mouth and sludge a system in the interest of the great structure. It is a disgrace, and it is a matter of self - reflection. However, what is now more difficult for Westerners is the establishment of the Fund of rural society, but the foretold impairment will have a very bad impact on Western rural communities and, in fact, all smaller rural areas in the country. I agree with this concern as soon as I call attention to our council resolution in the United States on action in the interests of rural society because of an outbreak of a virus that has already been submitted. It has high-relevant requirements and their role in close-up services and proposed solutions. The wonder may be sweet, a respectable president, if this proposal will not be welcomed and it will be accepted in one piece.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u8	A respectable president. As we all know, the health of the nation and the economic situation all go hand in hand, and the crown virus is affecting both of them. Each day the nation sat down in front of the screen, where we received information about the situation and the advice on the next steps. These meetings and information gave a tremendous deal of success to say, it was crucial. Concomitant measures to protect and ensure the health of the nation have now taken economic measures to protect the health of the economy. Tumbles and hundreds of billions have been spent. These are astronomy statistics for the public and businesses of the country. But here the information and advice has been missing, that the public is informed about the situation and what is to be expected. Just as we received an assessment from the guidance of our three experts, the nation now needs a group of independent experts to inform them of the economic consequences of government action, both in the long and short term. Our neighbors have already done this. As noted, Gylfi Zoëga, professor of economics, pointed out on Channel 2 this morning that Norway has an e.g. An active group of government economists to weigh the economic consequences of the operation and to inform the nation of the current situation. The key to success is to inform the status and outlook of the situation, to eliminate uncertainty and to use lines. The public and professional life are given too little information about these economic activities. This needs to be introduced in the same way that the sterilization measures were carried out so that the public and the business can get sufficient information about the situation, the outlook, and the future. The Gylfi proposes, and I agree that there will be weekly meetings where governments are doing what the business is doing, the career and the home of the country. The uncertainty has to be destroyed. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u9	Mr. President. By maintaining telecommunication at Covid time, members of the Parliament have been made possible to function almost uninterrupted. The same applies to the International Committees of the Generals. Yet, no one has ever found a special meeting. Sometimes the cause of the buttons can be traced to the system used, but more often it can't be attributed to failure of the user's equipment, use of earphones, are not in the right browser, no network connection is bad, etc. It has also been observed that because of security reasons, individual bodies are not to be used, causing problems. The conclusion is, therefore, that we need to do better with the guidance and training of the Parliaments and the staff of the Generals and the Board of Directors in the use of telecommunications and to coordinate further between at least hallends and Generals for what systems are being used. Longevity can save time, a lot of money, and a reduction in carbon tracks, but especially makes the administration more accessible to those living away from the capital area. The above petition made by the Fall Council of 2017 for a prime minister to establish a procedure for telecommunications for the Ministry of the Council. According to a report made by the prime minister at this council on the decision of the Generals, there is an investment in telecommunications, recruitment training of employees in its use, and development of a procedure where the Ministry includes. target of increased telecommunications The report also shows that telecommunications is within all resources and guidance. Climate advisers should ensure introductions and that subsidiary adopts the same procedure. There are reports that much has been done at the Council of the Council on these issues and at the General Assembly. I know the Presidency Committee has an issue for discussion and further review. But there are certainly opportunities to do more. Faraway meetings are certainly here to stay and must remain where necessary, especially for those members of the council who have come to their home on weekends, or who have to try at least to do so, so that this is a practical option and a small matter to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u10	V.E.G. President. It is now scheduled to screen tourists at their arrival in Cheflavík, and it is noteworthy that more portals are not available, as shown in the morning's newspaper. That's where the Akureyri and Reykjavík airports were named, and there's even more that we could add. It is also good to remember that the Norwegian comes to Sufficiency each week, and it has already been announced that arrangements will be made to be made to screen its visitors. It is, therefore, even more surprising that the number of tourists there will increase, reading of the records of the customs assistants in Seyndir. It was noted in a study published by a disease - safety doctor a few days ago that screening at Keflavour Airport should last for the next six months. So it tells me that other airports are not expected to be used for tourists. Another factor that causes uncertainty is the announcement of a two - week evaluation of the situation by Prime Minister. I'm not sure that announcement will be most effective at the end of the day. I find it even more remarkable that in view of the fact that foreign tourists without health insurance owe to Land Hospital 282 million people, they will not be screened to the destination. The International Airlines Association has pointed out this way, showing that some airlines have already begun their mission to screen tourists before they board board board.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u11	Mr. President. Electric energy produced by large wind mills has greener plus, when a carbon track has been calculated from the cradle to the grave, as we would like to call it, and the electrical energy it produces is set against the power that is produced spontaneously. A survey of land activation of energy production by Borfells suggests that wind power is useful as an additional option in Iceland. There is one mill gap in a framework of a waiting class and another in a waiting category, while outside the framework, there are many large mills in sight, e.g. In the county of foreign agencies, with Icelandic colleagues, the Norwegian Zepyr has ten locations in many parts of the country. A spectacular foreign possession is sobering, to say the least. All power plants above 10 MW should fall under a framework schedule. Another means a complete shortage of total and external energy production. The cooperation of national and foreign enterprises with rural communities allows planning and investigation can be given on the basis of tests and analyses. A typical windmill with 203/430 mills has a force similar to that of e.g. But new mills have become larger than the mills at Borfell, with up to 200 feet [150 to 2,200 m] high, two to three Hallgis. OnlytheZapyr survey would have a disposition that would produce power similar to all the larger power plants in the country. Now it is urgent to ensure that, as soon as possible, the overall structure required and put a full mill gap into a frame plan and to stick to the policy of producing energy in accordance with the needs and energy activities of the country. And then I remind you that another rule of action, such as formal activation license, environmental impact assessment, electrical transport issues, and the rest of that, is about wind-powered chaos. In any case, the speed of preparation, the speed of the hands, not the harnessing of the wind, but the fierceness of horses, in the face of unsatisfactory organization. This is my message from last night's unsupervised inquiries.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u12	A respectable president. On the 9th of May. says the word, with the permission of the president: For example, at the end of a year, people who ordered a specialised car are now sitting with an additional one and a half million at the expense of their fall. One of them claims to be in a hopeless position where the purchases cannot be canceled. Nationality of motorists wants the government to help them. If you are severely motorized, you need a special van to drive by yourself. These people are protected by insurance agencies to buy such a car. Tolls are then dropped and transport costs are dropped. Then the people pay for the differences that have so far been about a million and a half million. It is unlikely that this government will allow itself to do so at the same time as everyone in Covid's being saved, ignoring this Covid case. The up-to-date increase of 1.5 million is Covid by gang. V.E.G. Minister of this seminar class, I don't know if he's out in the field or just being sheep-like, promises to answer, and doesn't answer. These are not the highest amounts of money. Not many individuals are involved. At the same time, you are trying to develop a disability assessment for disability. There should be some solution, but they need the car to arrive at their destination. No, it's just to be taken off them, too. I have a simple solution for the cost of this. They're sending out a delivery of 5,000 bucks. It was supposed to cost 1.5 billion, but it turns out that it costs only 375 million because it was miscalculated as much as it did in this government. There's the money to fix this one, two and three, right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u13	Mr. President. The members of Congress may be very helpful, if well - thought - out, including to draw out information and call attention to matters. An example of a relatively rapid response I have received is the response of a industrial minister to the assessment of the fourth energy package. He's in the way. This is a total of eight regulations and directives. The answer is good and good, but I have to use this opportunity to describe that it is as if there has been nothing learned from the third energy package in that there is no mention in the answer that in preparation there are legal opinions that proved very important in the third energy package. We can recall that to make up the most discuss person here, dated March 19, 2018, it was discussed in the spring. Here, we need to learn a lesson from experience and to make the most accurate statements of such opinions. An example of the response to a new and very important information is the answer to the highest degree. Social Affairs Minister to ask for the loss of social security pensions that almost everyone is affected to the next time. There is a wide range of access to the application's response to queries. There are a number of times when you request an appointment, or you may not hear from recruitment or even be signed for receiving. I want it to be directed to the highest. President that he resorted to prisoners to find answers to unsurpassed queries in this legislation council, now and in the future, and that they are being passed within the separated period of time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u14	Mr. President. This time, I'm going to allow myself not to talk about the Covid or the government's operations package. I'd rather talk about kiwi, blueberries, bananas and avocado. The other day, I was looking at the fruit basket in my house - not the musical game, because he's got an audience in my home for his life. But what the home's fruit was showing was very productive. The banana was from Ecuador, the blueberries were from Marocco, the avocado was from Peru, and the kiwi was from the United States. When I studied economics at the University of Iceland, I even went. over the cost of making products and then selling them. Every country and company should produce and export what amount to the minimum cost of producing and that law still applies. On the other hand, it seemed, in these textbooks with which one would rely, which would not always be compared to the entire expense, although such things should actually be done in terms of sacrifice. I am referring to the so - called climate costs or to the environmental impact or carbon footprints. Enterprises, however, are increasingly looking to the cost of the environment, but often it is only when governments set standards and laws on this. The cost of pollution has to do with a different term in economics that is negative to external effects, which makes an individual less expensive than the person responsible for the cost. As a result, pollution taxes are a good economic idea, for they bring the cost of pollution to the person who is contaminated. Mr. President. I'm sure the future fruits will look quite different when companies have to take into account all the environmental costs resulting from the production and transport between the far corners of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u15	A respectable president. The murder of George Floyd was another drop in the bosomful cup of racial discrimination and police violence against black Americans. People's objections and anger in the wake of such terrible acts are both understandable in response to injustice and the culture of violence. The response of the president of the United States, Donald Trumpur, who threatens the shooting of Protestants, who threatens the use of the U.S. Army against American citizens, is not a decent president in a democratic state, and in fact gives evidence of intense opposition to the President's rights to protest. A respectable president. Shortly after Donald Trump's office, I said in this talk chair, with the permission of a president: I'm worried that the President of the United States is a fascist, a misogynist and a racist... That comment drew attention to the time, and it seemed to be the highest. Foreign Minister, e.g. why they should say improperly. In the meantime, much water has run to the sea, and now not only am I concerned but I believe that the President of the United States is Fascist, misogynist, and racist. And although I know it's the highest. Secretary of State feels inappropriate to call things the right names, and although I also know that it may not be a suitable foreign policy to do so exactly, I miss seeing the minister and the government criticize the President of the United States for his efforts to the democracy west of the sea. I call for an international voice of Iceland to be heard; against discrimination and against the U.S. President's departure to the democracy there. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u16	Mr. President. Last week, Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson wrote minister of the State Department and Eyjólfur Guðmundsson, head of the University of Akureyri, under a service contract that further emphasized the importance of Akureyri as the center of the North Sea in Iceland. An interest in northern regions has increased very much in recent years, including in connection with the use of resources and the use of freight transport studies. It's important that Iceland has its unique position as a northern state, but Iceland's specialisation includes in this country's focus on building renewable energy sources and on expertise. Here, too, it is appropriate to point out the importance of building a search and a rescue that is a big and important subject in the light of Iceland's geographic situation. Throughout Iceland's north-south policy, increasing the economic climate in the north can give companies greater opportunities for applying and new growth opportunities. This is likely to be the case with structure and investments, e.g. The transport, resource use services and tourism services, will create applications in Akureyri and elsewhere. In this context, it is important that our foreign relations with the Greenlands and the Faeroe Islands are well and based on solid foundations, as these three countries share responsibility for a large and rural region of the North Atlantic. The interests of these countries are closely linked in the trade, transport, and resource use in the region. In this way, the structure of a seabed and the design of Icelandic companies are very useful. Finally, I want to point out the need for a air travel agreement between Iceland and Greenland, but each year, since 1976, has, for example. Norway and its predecessors, along with other Icelandic pilots, had to request permission from the Greenlandic government to fly there. Such a contract would strengthen the economic cooperation of Iceland and Greenland for a long time, and it is urgent that success be achieved first in the important matter that the air travel between Iceland and Greenland truly is.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u17	A respectable president. During the last few weeks, significant progress has been made in the knowledge and ability of people through telecommunications and telecommunications of any kind in most parts of the community, even here at the council. The decision to maintain and further improve the skill of remote work and to use a flexible work programme, where appropriate, should then be made conscious. Both technical knowledge and skills need to be maintained and increased, but there are also some skills that need to be trained for long - term work. But that's not enough. It also needs to ensure that the workforce rules and public systems, laws, and rules will not be an obstacle to evolution. There are many factors to consider when people, for example, stop being obstacles. in a country other than what they work in. Then there are such questions as: Where does the cross - border tax pay? How and where does he receive the right to public service? What will be the condition of his labour markets, e.g. With regard to maternity, unemployment benefits, and the availability of ever - increasing education? The fourth industrial revolution, electronic management, telecommunication, and telecommunication, give us amazing tools and opportunities. To benefit from these opportunities, we need to start a formal job in order to ensure that, regardless of the location in Iceland, there will be an alternative for people who want to have jobs anywhere in the world. Within the country, we can also ask ourselves, " How can I take advantage of the opportunities in my telecommunications? ' Close - up services are still important, but they create, for example. not a full-time job. There, conscious control could be done by electronic administrations and telecommunications in order to distribute jobs across the country, to promote operating stations, and to promote entire institutions, systems, or chains.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u18	V.E.G. President. Here's a very good case for me. However, I would have liked to see an economist with a much greater role. I believe that an economist is responsible for two measures, but I believe it has the full knowledge of the category of languages needed and that in the future it will play a larger role. I hope so.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u19	A respectable president. Today, I'm glad we're accepting this proposal for action, prevention of sexual and sexual violence and harassment against children and young people, and a plan that goes with it until the next five years. I think it's a very important deal to be agreed on here and a plan of action that's under which a lot of people are involved. It is based on knowledge that exists, and, of course, new knowledge is also involved. Here are a number of situations. We are also suggesting that the Council be the executive officer of the European Union, who will be able to keep an eye on the project along with a local representative. Every year, a prime minister needs to explain the progress of the case, which I believe is an important monitoring role to follow that step in the real future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u20	A respectable president. This is where we vote on a very important suggestion I support, a proposal for the prevention of sexual and sexual violence and harassment, as well as a plan for the 2021/2025. I think the plan and actions in this room are very important tools to continue changing culture in this area. I'd like to mention one thing I mentioned to the previous guys. and I miss something not seeing in the Committee, it's about prevention in high school. Then I would have particularly wanted to see the Committee for Prevention, who is involved in boarding homes, and I want to keep it here at my vote. But I know that it will be taken into account in the study project. Then I want to introduce a word used in the resolution; it is called a sexual immunity, which I think is a very important word that we will learn to use and work on.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u21	A respectable president. This is a truly so-called national agreement that the Conspiracy is very supportive. These are matters that are very important to teach and discuss, and these are matters that should not be confidential. When it comes to this matter, teaching is the most important thing. I'd like to keep it simple, though, for the reasons I've put on the committee's opinion and still have. My concern is that money needs are underestimated when it comes to this matter and that there are not sufficient funds for this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u22	A respectable president. Yesterday was 2nd. At a council Hall on this matter, an excellent discussion. However, after the discussion on this bill, I found much energy to be bickered. As I mentioned in my speech, and I refer to it in other respects as to my position on the matter, I believe that the matter might be more discussed, at least on a committee at the council, if not in his father's house. In that light, I'm going to request that this case go back to why. The management board and the monitoring committee suggest that, for example, there be a number of its members. Available guests such as the Children's U.S. agent to discuss the possible effects of this bill on children, in opposing their parents'interest analysis, because it is a completely modern law of law here that children are mixed into such interest logs.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u23	A respectable president. This case is greatly improved, and I support it. On the other hand, I think it's rather awkward for a government who's going to want to build up confidence in politics, to keep herself completely out of control and to maintain the rules it's setting. It does not add to the credibility of these regulations that ministers should not be kept under any supervision or restraint by documenting their right interests as well as their dealings with the value of interest. It is also surprising that the government is not ready to prevent its assistants from applying for jobs as interest prices immediately after their retirement work for this government, such as office managers, Ministry, ambassadors, and legislators, who are, in fact, forbidden to do so, will be approved by this bill. According to this, there are a lot of benefits, and I will support this bill and only sit by a few points in which I will make special explanations. In our memory, we have a number of adjustments that we encourage the more part to accept because they are greatly improved.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u24	Mr. President. I agree that going back to a committee between the 2nd and 3rd would do good. It is somewhat rapid after my judgment, but it has not matured enough. While a good deal of things are involved in this bill, it seems that the first effect on the case is that if it is a bill, it must be reduced to a highly educated and better influence on people who are qualified for political employment. This is a food source for people who might have the intention of working either in politics or in political matters. I don't like it the way it is. The company will not support this case and will sit by. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u25	A respectable president. During the past decade or so, there have been many steps to strengthen confidence in politics and government. There is no need for this. This is one of them, and this is an important step, of course, that I support. Yet, along with the rest of my administration and monitoring committee, I have proposed adjustments that would enable us to take more ambitious steps now so that we do not need to take the next steps as soon as possible because this bill is not gone far enough. On the contrary, what the Independence Party's representatives have said during the discussion is not going far enough in this bill. To argue that this situation is too far and that this is a bad case, there is a game to hide the differences between groups on the fundamental question of whether to increase the defense against conflict. I support this bill even though some executives don't seem to be doing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u26	A respectable president. We in the United States support this case, but we agree with the adjustment proposals of my share. This is about two factors, one of which is to influence people who intend to use their circumstances to pay off some means of interest, even to profit themselves. And as far as that is concerned, it is equally important to build trust in politics. I believe that with the change in my part's proposals, the result is to further strengthen the public's confidence in politics. I encourage Congress to support these suggestions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u27	President. It's been proposed to me that there's a lot of progress here, and it's made a significant change in the work of the committee. The presentation of the representatives of my part may reveal the different viewpoints on this subject. Some want to go further, even beyond GRECO's checks; others want to go shorter. This is some form of compromise, and the matter needs to be considered in far greater context than just this bill. The context of all proposed events needs to be considered and agreed to open the registry information. It's a very good thing I suggest we agree. President. Finally, I'd like to say that things are on the table, they're not supposed to have the powers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u28	President. I can't see any better than that. Prime Minister Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, may be about to fail this test. This is because the government contract says that it can wave at government meetings and say: This is what we promised, this is what to do, by permission of a president: The government will promote trust in politics and government. One factor is reviewing the rules on interest registration of both Ministers and senators in the light of the indications and international guidelines. One of the things GRECO talks about is surveillance. And what about the trust report made by the prime minister? Yes, for a conflict of interest, in this case a minister who will not be under supervision - with the permission of the president: A conflict of interests is the aspect of political and administrative politics that arouses the most popular hostility in society. Civil citizens' suspicions (who may often appear to be justified) that elected representatives or public employees may misuse their position in their own interests or their immediates - or that in this way relate to stakeholders - as we know that some are -- that they can, in one way or another, be dependent on, even on their authority - lead to dissension and generally contribute to a cynical stand on public decisions. [[The president calls.]] Now it's up to a committee. If this is not adjusted, employing counsellors as suggested by the smaller part, it will fail to test the level of political trust. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And that would be very sad.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u29	A respectable president. This is a good case, and it's important, and there are many positive steps. The objective of this bill is both necessary and good, but I, like the others in this room, set a question mark on whether the bill was designed to achieve its objective through its completion. I'm referring to the surveillance show, that it is refused to intend to set up an independent committee in order to carry out the order set here. An independent and independent committee would be better able to trust these provisions and achieve the objective of the bill, and most important, to create the trust that the bill is going on. As the bill looks right now, the goal is solid, but it is not entirely given to the conclusion that it will be by monitoring in the way the bill preaches.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u30	Mr. President. This case is well built up. It is based on the work of the Ministry of Presidency but also on the information we have collected from abroad on how this is done in many other parts of the world. I believe this case will bring us much more happiness when it comes to establishing the interests of those who are involved in politics and increasing transparency and political trust. I think it's good. I don't think that's going to work because I would have thought that everyone was aware of the privilege of getting into politics. What a privilege it is to influence one's community by sitting at the Generals, much less participating in the government, and at the same time, I would have thought that all should be aware that such predestinations have certain obligations and requirements for increased transparency and requisition of interests. In this case, I believe we are taking a very positive step here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u31	A respectable president. We vote on a bill of defenses against conflict of interest with the highest executive executives of the Iceland Management Board. This is where we're moving on. It's a landmark law that is, like, the highest. The prime minister went over, including. on how we work against corruption and secure trust, or work to build trust. Five teams directed to Iceland were recommended, and the bill meets all five recommendations. We're taking an important step, and I think it's kind of nice that we don't take too much steps at once. I even have some doubts about whether we should have made some changes in the bill. However, in the greater part we decided to make some adjustments, but small and safe steps are important in such matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u32	I just have to correct the last speaker, okay? paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir. GRECO pointed out that the decision-to-treat shall be supervised. According to the bill, counsellors are not under surveillance. The prime minister, of course, will supervise himself, who is not good. This report shows that other advisers are not monitored. That's not good. It does not build confidence in politics, but it can be corrected. And if it's fixed, it seems to me that every comment from GRECO is followed. Otherwise, we will be left with legislation in which the people know that the Ministers are not properly meeting their interest registry, and there is no monitoring of whether the Ministers are specialised at the expense of public interest. That's what stays behind if it's not fixed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u33	A respectable president. This is the lesser part of suggesting that an independent committee monitor these regulations. This will ensure that you are not sure if it is right or not. It will strengthen confidence that these laws are carried out and will solve the problem at its height. The prime minister seems to expect, not to monitor his own advisers, and, of course, cannot keep an eye on himself. I can see on this table, though, that the government that wanted to promote political trust does not intend to include independent persons to monitor them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u34	A respectable president. Whether or not the prime minister of any time is interested in building trust in the administration. Therefore, the smaller item suggests moving a follow-up from the Ministry of Presidency to an independent and independent committee for the monitoring of interest issues. This change would increase the likelihood that this system works and would also show the public that the system is designed to work. Its appearance is of no less importance when it is being built up by the public's trust on the system. It's a simple change, and I think it's a simple thing, but by the table it doesn't seem like everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u35	President. If the majority and the management groups are not impressed with this particular implementation, the recruitment and interest registration should be monitored so that it is clear that the interest logs are correct and less likely they are using their public authority for special interests, it can still be improved. If the matter is called to a committee, a greater part of it, with the government's support, can include other regulations. If they're not happy with it and now they're taking it down, there's still a chance. The nature of this matter is now clear to the whole body of Congress. We're going to separate the Minister from the surveillance of interest registration. This matter can be corrected between discussions in the committee. I really hope that it will, because then it's gonna be a pretty good deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u36	A respectable president. We suggest that there should not be an exception to registration, registrational obligation, to register debts and responsibilities for personal use, debts, and responsibilities for the use of cars for personal use and debt and responsibility for student loans or loans to business banks, savings and other loans, as well as gifts and benefits of 50,000 dollars. ... value. We suggest that this will be recorded, but not published, so that any independent committee, or prime minister, who intends to take up this role, can keep an eye on the fact that there is no abnormal activity in any sort of loans that potential officials have received that are at odds with what the public generally offer. We feel that this is a record, even though we do not necessarily have a view to it. So we suggest that these exceptions are not necessarily reported because we know entirely examples of apartment loans and bans around them, though they bear evidence of corruption. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u37	A respectable president. Increased registration and self-assessment of the debt and property of the people discussed in this bill is important to achieve the objective of the bill. As mentioned above, e.g. Digging under the integrity of a person if debt of his apartment house had a completely different and much better option than the public is available solely because of his position in the management system. In our memory, we suggest that the entire list be taken into consideration. But the greater part suggests that only one item of that list is touched; rather than a 50,000 - dollar target. The maximum amount for administration should be 50,000 per year. It is an excellent suggestion, but it pales in comparison with the millions of interest that may depend on apartment loans, loans, and automobile loans involved in this law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u38	A respectable president. Since the changes in the memory of the part were expressed not to exclude these loans and these commitments from registrations - only registrations, not display releases - we cannot vote with this article in which we are opposed because this interest should not be recorded as it would be important to others.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u39	A respectable president. In this bill, it is assumed that it will appear in the overview section of the Management Board that relationships with the price of interest have taken place. However, it is not included in the Law text that it should be mentioned in an overview of the proposal for administration that such communication has taken place. This is simply a suggestion that it be corrected and recorded in both cases, whether in the administration or in a administrative bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u40	A respectable president. Here we discuss the so - called spinning door that the bill handles and prevents e.g. Ministers or Ministers may be able to work for a interests organization within six months after they resign from their jobs for the government. For some reason, without the clear intervention of any committee party or, in fact, members of the greater body, have been decided to separate assistants from this law only. It can be said that they are most likely to look for employment for interests at the end of their duties for ministers. We have many examples of this. They can go straight out of the Ministry for a job with a interests organization. They can already, and they don't stand to change it. We suggest that the same principles apply to the Minister's assistants as to the other executives of the executives, that they be made to wait for six months before working for a interest organization to end their confidential work for a government minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u41	A respectable president. The bill includes the minister, the secretary of charge, the office manager of the ambassadors and assistant ministers, but for some perfectly incomprehensible reason, the assistant ministers are excluded in this rotation suit. The smaller portion suggests extending the tycoon law to helpers, which is the preferred group. There are few cases, if any, that the permanent officials of the administration will be turned aside to work in a place of interest. However, as far as 15% of the assistants, one in eight helpers, are going to a federal interest posts. Last one's only from last month. If it's really the intention of the senators to legalize the spindle order, they will accept this change.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u42	A respectable president. Here we are once again suggesting an independent surveillance of national interest logs and conflict of interest between the government and the rest of the executive executive directors of the European Commission. There is still the possibility of establishing monitoring and maintaining the proper interest registration of the Minister of this government, as well as of the rest that will follow. There's a chance right now. It seems, though, that this government will also slip away.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u43	A respectable president. Two. Section 6. The bill will appear, with the permission of the President: A case of suspected violations of the European Commission, other than the Minister, can be considered by the secretary himself. This is just another wording after the change in the majority of the objects went through. However, the fact that there is no one to consider on their own initiatives an incident where the violation of the highest European Commission is suspected. No one is responsible, according to this greater part, for the monitoring and maintenance of it. Ministers in this government agree to this law of restricted surveillance and maintenance of the proper application of interest logs and their relationship with interest prices. Sadly, as a result, we are living by a vote on this law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u44	A respectable president. This is to the main theme for a symbolic operation now, which is a reference to the committee we proposed to provide independent monitoring of these rules already being performed. But we do suggest that we take seriously these rules, which are not present in the bill at this time. Please refer to this report that the Ministers, or Ministry, can handle appropriate staff measures if they are advised against the offenses, of course not the Ministers themselves. There's no surveillance on them. But we suggest that if a serious offense is involved, it should be published in public. That's all we agreed to do, but it didn't get through, i.e. to present the violation of the European Commission's highest authority officially. Clearly, the best thing to do is to keep it secret.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u45	So much as the 6th and 7th sessions were distributed after April 1 and therefore need to be agreed to take it on. The president considers these variants to be approved without a vote if no one moves objections, if no one asks for a vote. No one will object and examine variations approved and will be able to discuss the situation later in this meeting, i.e. follow-up.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u46	Mr. President. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the changing of the General Assembly Act, which I propose after having had a conversation with the President of the Parliament and with the heads of the council who are represented at the General Assembly. I have suggested to the chairman of the General Assembly that the Council will abide by the Work Programme approximately June 25, which is the current work programme. I have also suggested that the next regular assembly be held on October 1, next. Third, the assembly will be postponed at the end of June, as mentioned above, and put back at the end of August to measure financial policy, and that the discussion will be completed. one week later. No other issues will be taken on the program unless a pandemic situation requires it. In fact, it will be a mere conference for financial policy unless something arises because of a pandemic crown virus that demands that the council take their stand on it. However, if anything unexpected comes up beyond the time I have mentioned, members of the council are on the back. Is that only natural in view of the times in which we live, it is most natural to bring together a council if necessary but not to attack the sentence of a preliminary law, for I consider that all members of Congress, at least Those to whom I have spoken, of course, are prepared to be on this shift. The bill suggests that the date of a regular meeting with the Council is held in the fall of 2020, instead of the second Tuesday of September. The objective of the bill is to ensure the economic uncertainty that exists today that there will be an increasing need to prepare needed changes in the government economic policy that I mentioned here for discussion at the end of August. And the financial programme for the year 2021/225 for the contributions to the Council as well as the budget bill for 2021. I believe it matters, and it was pointed out in the prefect groups that it was important that financial policy be put in place before financial planning and financial laws would be submitted. This brings to mind the viewpoints of the financial Council in their review of this procrastination. The bill should be considered in the context of a standard bill. Economic and economic ministers, as detailed below, of the change in government law on public finance, of which permission is required to compromise the law due to the required review, the government financial policy and the contributions of financial programmes at the General Assembly. As I mentioned, after discussing these matters, there will be a bill for discussion. But I would like to say that in the autumn of this special situation, I believe that there is a clear and significant reason for this to be turned aside from the traditional rule of law on public finance and that the contribution of the members of that body will be delayed in the autumn by the special circumstances in which it exists, but I believe that the necessary basis for economic development has not yet been made clear enough to end these matters within the period of the law on public finances. I don't have to swaddle it, and I think it's okay. Congress officials will show understanding of the current economic situation and, of course, not unique to us on the land, far from here. Mr. President. In the past, the Council's meeting day has been changed temporarily after 1991 when the current regulations of 35. The Constitution on the day of the meeting was set. On the one hand, it was 2013 and in 1992. The report points out that in 2013 the exact date of the meeting was delayed to help with the preparation of a budget for 2014 as well as the prime of tax reforms and other financial arrangements. However, it was in 1992 that the date of the meeting was rushed to August 17, which was October 1, in order to create a better space at the autumn Summit for the discussion of the EEA Treaty, which was then finally adopted in January 1993. This bill is based on the above - mentioned laws. Mr. President. I don't think there's any reason to have any further comments on this matter. Otherwise, it's quite self-explanatory.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u47	President. I just wanted to ask the highest. The prime minister who began his talk was to talk only about this councilist who will be in the summer, whether it is quite clear that the senator will not be a case, the government case that will be left in June. In other words, it will be new things that will happen after June 25th, and are linked to a Covid or present condition, which will be considered to address the conference with financial policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u48	Mr. President. Yes, that's the correct way of understanding. paritaprevir Halldóra, Mogensen. I told them earlier that on the other hand, this girl, whom we can call, is supposed to represent financial policy, and it's my suggestion that this is the subject of the discussion of the prefects and financial tips that came from the Council. On the other hand, I'd like to say that if the pandemic situation is urgent, which we don't see now, and as a result we're not present at the council, if the senators will be prepared at that point, as in fact for all summer, because I also suggest that we are all aware that we may need to bring together a meeting, that these cases might come to their attention. But, of course, I hope not. Of course, I hope we don't have any other surprises.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u49	President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister, the answers. I'd also like to ask if the highest. For the better of the case, prime minister considers it not important to arrange for visitors to meet with the committee that will discuss the matter, i.e. that the committee carefully examined and received reviews on this matter. Or how you look at the highest. The prime minister realizes that this matter will be handled? I'm wondering if it's the highest. A minister does not consider this matter to be a well-worked case on the committee regarding reviews, visitors, and other matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u50	Mr. President. I would have thought this case was primarily our work here, i.e. of the General. The decision was to request the opinion of the Council of Economic Affairs to postpone the matter, which is why we are delaying the regular meeting day of the Council, since according to the constitution, the first matter of each assembly is a financial bill. I don't think it's something that the Council needs to call special guests to discuss how it works. Rather, I think most importantly that we have that conversation in this house. Of course, it was time to request this statement from the financial council that sent their review to the heads of the classes and made it clear that economic policy was earlier to be discussed. That is why it is my suggestion, and I view it as such that we must all agree on how this work should be done. I don't necessarily think that we need to call for a number of stakes in the community to discuss how we perform Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u51	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with it as the ultimate. The minister said, it's been a conversation between the presidents of the clans, and there's a strong grip on this. I'd like to make it clear that the government's situation stressed that we're always ready to attend the council, even after June 25th, in the case of a pressing case of Covid, I'd like to underscore it. I'd also like to point out that I'm not interested in postponing the council to October 1, so I held it up. I feel that there is a need for better work and more in financial matters that have not been made clearly clear, although I value very well what the Ministers have said. I point out, as we have seen here, that in other parts of Europe, it is about the exact same help, to form in the countries we compare with, cases that can be completely comparable. There are many things that are not necessarily controlled, but much is very similar, and funding is not being delayed in Norway, Denmark, and Sweden, for example. [[The president calls.]] So I don't exactly buy that argument. I'm asking the highest. Minister if she realizes that the council will be convened between September 4 and October 1 will be submitted to a critical case of Covid.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u52	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir. It is true that the prefects have spoken very clearly in that they are ready to attend any time because of the urgent issues of Covid. As I said before, in answer to what. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen, I hope that, of course, it doesn't have to come. I believe it is the same thing in July and then September that if any of these cases arise that calls for the assembly to meet, then the General Assembly will be convened. I'm not a fan of the fact that I'm using temporary laws that I really think are what they are. A senator is asking. So I think we all have to be ready for this, but of course we just hope that this plan can work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u53	V.E.G. President. Thank you, Minister. This is important. We are neither great fans of preliminary law, that is, in fact, exactly what I was drawing out. I think there is bad weapons in those days where circumstances are very different today in society than when the provisional principle was passed into our legislation. I'd also like to draw forward and emphasize that it is important to get the statement that there is only a Covid case that we're talking about, a pro-improvement of Covid for the entire public. We've experienced it here, and in these last days, there's a natural blundering political bitch that a priority has been run through the council, to form as far as the seabed is concerned, to extract a stamp's stamping charge. I don't want to see that sort of thing, either on the butt, or on the κforborfarten, or on the rest of the days. We are to resolve to address issues that benefit the general public rather than special interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u54	Mr. President. I just want to reiterate what I said earlier when I talked about the little one, that we're only talking about a pressing case of Covid. However, now a council is active, and of course I expect the council to complete as many matters as possible during the days and weeks ahead. There is plenty of time ahead to complete a number of the fine things in this room. Many are truly concerned with the interests of the public. For example, I can mention one good thing, which I hope to do. A senator will stand by me to complete, to put a clear frame around Iceland's funeral, which is a case for the treatment of a universal and educational committee. It is indeed a matter of public interest, since we are discussing it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u55	And health insurance.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u56	A respectable president. I have to say something a little bit. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. I don't like to delay the Aldus meeting day for these weeks proposed and have been wondering, in this context, why these three weeks are so important to me, and why the timing for the budget was so important. Now that we're out of financial policy, financial programs are a little close, and funding will be delayed by three weeks. I'd like to start by asking the highest. Minister: Is anything that happens particularly in September that matters for the contract of the budget? Is there any basis, then? Are there some things that happen in September that have something to do with moving on this day?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u57	Mr. President. Hv. A candidate is speaking primarily of points to address the following discussion, i.e. Work on making financial policy, financial plans, and financial billing. As I came to my point, what has been discussed in the scene of the prefects is the obvious uncertainty of economic issues. It is now known that the Haust Service will bring financial support to national forecasts during the spring months, which will be the foundation for the development of financial policy, financial planning, and financial legislation. It is then assumed that a new national interest forecast will be submitted at the end of August or early September. I believe it is in our best interest here at the council that we are working with the latest data rather than putting in the beginning of September something based on earlier national forecasts because changes may be very rapid. And we now see economic developments at the highest level. The secretary of finance did a fine job on a bill covering specific scenarios, and I believe that it will be beneficial for the council to have the latest data under it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u58	A respectable president. Yeah, this case goes into my committee and the highest. So the prime minister arrived earlier that she felt that it was not right for us to talk to some special interests about the subject of this bill. I don't agree with that at all. I think, for example. to the highest. The secretary of finance has sought opinion from the Council of Economic Affairs is not the same as giving the opinion of the Council to a board of administration and surveillance committee. I think it's a different arm, and I'd like to hear how it works. Prime Minister will consider this. I think it's all right for us to talk to this independent counsel about this arrangement and the wisdom in it. I'd like to ask you the highest. Prime Minister whether she does not feel that she is going to shoot a little bit wrong, asking for the assembly to take her meeting day and that we will be able to do so, but the Senate does not know what election day it is. Don't you think it's time to tell us all about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u59	Mr. President. Hv. The management board is getting this case to the treatment, and I expressed my view earlier that I felt there was no need for a number of visitors to discuss how the General Assembly of the Iceland interests of their affairs. I think it's our primary concern. Of course, I don't see anything wrong with meeting the committee for financial advice. I expect the council did not change its view from the fact that it sent its opinions to the presidents. It may then be considered in a thorough manner by a board of administrations and monitoring committees. Here, some say "whisper." Congress officials do not intend to make a meeting day. Of course, I would have chosen to have the next assembly as far as possible. There's going to be a lot of issues under there, including... My bills to change the constitution. Of course, I would have chosen as long as possible to discuss that matter, but that does not mean that we will have less time to discuss them and many other subjects. That is why I stress that the time ahead of this council will be used to complete as much of a matter as possible so that it will not need to be recommended again at the next assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u60	A respectable president. It's not just the council that this affects that the bill puts together quite a huge amount of government spending that affects a lot of people. Official financial legislation is expected to complete the budget by the end of November, so once the budget is reduced from the back and now it is being shortened. Well, now it's quite little time to take care of financial plans and budgets. The economist has previously published a summer budget, just a year ago when a good report was put together to meet the lowness that came in those days. I'd like to look for the highest opinion. The prime minister who states in the civil law that the financial policy is the policy of a government proposed at the General Assembly for a global financial objective to be no less than five years old. So, now it is not time to put up a policy on public finances. It is simply to keep uncertainty in place until the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u61	Mr. President. Hv. In November of recent years, a senator correctly mentioned that financial contributions were made, a great improvement. Of course, it can be assumed that something will be reduced to their appearance later in life. It's going to take a turn. Does this affect others? Of course it does. Of course, if agencies really do not know until the budget is completed in November or December each year, however, they will follow through on that discussion. Then I want to point out why. The senator will discuss this matter, that in the letter of a financial body, which I quoted earlier and is presented in a bill at the highest level. The financial secretary who follows Article II is a good review of the evidence that we make this postponement. This unprecedented situation, though it is a word that has become unpopular, we face in the economic situation that should then be a reasonable reason for the change that is being made.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u62	A respectable president. I examined the opinion of a financial body and agree almost entirely with this one phrase that there are critical reasons for delaying the contributions of financial policy, for in any case, the importance of immediately promoting financial policy is being taken into consideration. There is, however, no question about doing nothing. Uncertain conditions argue that there should be something to be done, not a failure to promote financial policy, but an effort to eliminate uncertainty.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u63	Mr. President. As I mentioned before, here are various explanatory forms of survival and the debt of state funds and government. What we believe in the opinion of a financial body is that we certainly expect a certain cycle of public financial cycles that assumes that policy is set once during each term period, then financial planning is put forward and then budgeted. What we do see, however, is that the frame of this law is quite narrow, e.g. as a shock occurs at the magnitude of what we see up to now. I think the results of a financial council simply reflect the recognition of the shock we have experienced. That is a conclusion. A senator may disagree, but I take note and look to the damp ones who are affected by that conclusion. I believe, however, that this calls for a longer period of time when we will be able to prepare even more carefully for the cycles dealt with in the opinion of a financial body that is passed on by the laws on public finances, so we will be better equipped to cope with such fluctuations, as we now face.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u64	President. I'd like to point out that during the meeting ban and we voted by going to a tail here through the council to reduce the votes, we'd cut down a few exceptions, i.e. We allowed the Council of Congress to put into practice the law of making a decision, whether a change is made - if there are some matters that are not yet in time, but should still be granted, the president might state that it is a general agreement and that it is accepted if no protests are made. That's 80. Parliamentary law. Now life is back to normal, where we vote in the chamber. I wish to the president I mentioned this to, I formally and officially, that from now on and that we will vote for a variation if a case needs to arise and such, so that we do not get stuck in any form, that a president can begin to make the impression that he merely declares that no movement objections are being made. I want us to vote again because this can be taken advantage of. I've been in the front row and told that something is being approved by just throwing it out, and it's approved by variations. The President does not have permission to consider that I agree that this is done, and therefore he cannot activate 80. g. unless you have a vote. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u65	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize government laws, No. 123/2015, regarding the concomitant contributions on the day of the meeting with the Council, 2020. The bill suggests changes in temporary rules. The second change will turn to financial, financial, financial, and financial bill, all of which will be put forward until the meeting day of the regularly General Assembly in the fall of 2020. Here we are, according to a bill at the highest level. The 840 - year - old Prime Minister suggests that the fall of 2020 will be October 1. The second change proposed by the bill is that a ministerial report on the prospects and long-term development will be submitted until the end of this year. It's on regulations 10th. Public financial laws require what to do if the core managers of current financial policies are missing, e.g. due to serious loss of employment because of unscheduled mitigation in the state of the land, natural disasters, or national years. Then the Minister shall have the premeditation of financial policy, and shall submit in order to the Council a proposal for a resolution of policy changes as soon as possible. Today, for the sake of significant problems, these requirements of the law are bound to be met because of the uncertainty of how the pandemic of the crown virus will affect the economy and thus on the outcomes of public funds in the present and future years. The current policy and strategy would not well reflect the economic developments we face in the autumn as well. After the summer, travel services and other exports are infuriated. In this regard, there is considerable uncertainty both in the country and in other European countries, not to mention the United States or areas that are even farther distant from us. We're walking into undelivered paths, let's say, and it can have a big impact on how this plays out. So meeting this requirement of the law is a serious problem, and that is the basis for this bill to be observed. It's on law 8. Public financial policies should be based on solid basis and information prepared objective and systematicly and public interest and national forecasts that take into account the economic and economic impact of government schemes. At the beginning of June, in the coming days, Haguembourg of Iceland is expected to bring up national forecasts for the year 2021/2025, which will be proposed as a basic budget bill for 2021. When key decisions have been made in line with official and economic goals during the period, it is expected that the Ministry will provide information to Iceland's Hauspah. In the second part of August or the beginning of September, Haggis is then expected to bring up a new national forecast for the year 2020,2020202025 - here I am talking about being returned to the Ministry and then published - which will be proposed as the basis for the revised financial policy of 2018, 22022, a financial program for the 2020, and a financial bill for the year 2021. The five - year budget will be implemented in accordance with revised financial policy for 2018/2022. The main challenge in the preparation and implementation of this programme must set economic reasonable targets that are manageable, while evaluating and implementing the scope of the necessary measures to improve the quality of the State budget and the government to the next five years. These measures include adding the basics of the government funds and stopping the debt collection of the state's funds when the economy has found secure resistance. There are many things to say about when you're reevaluating your policy to a second time period, a policy that the law expects only to appear on a normal field trip, at the beginning of the terms of the season, and live out the terms of the season. But here we are talking about reevaluating the plan a second time when just one year of the season survives. It is in nature, and it is assumed by the law that there will be a complete new course just over a year after this update. Nevertheless, I think, and I feel that I have some support from the financial resources given to the contributions of the bills I bring here and Prime Minister, that it is important that we return to our track with this cycle of policy, plan and fiscal bill. Despite the fact that only over a year lives in the fall of the election season, it is clear that there will be a new financial policy developing approximately a year after this update, I think it's important, even if we're in an up-to-date policy of talking about the year after the election. A respectable president. At this point, and especially in the circumstances that we are suggesting at the council, I believe it is very important that we get out of our routine in the matter of business, in which the financial agenda should have been conducted at this spring council, to share with the council and to do what we can to inform the Parliament about the situation, and to briefly enter into the affairs of public finances we are likely facing in the coming phase and years. The Ministry of Economics was introduced yesterday. The budget panels on possible decreption and debt ratings of state funds and public. The analysis of the Ministry aims to shed light on the potential magnitude of the crisis faced by the pandemic. The results of the Ministry's analysis do not include predicting the most likely economic progress. Rather, they include a stage for potential economic advancements, for example. that tourists do not return to the country for the rest of the year and that next year, about a million tourists are visiting the country. This year's unemployment rate is expected to be 9.5%, but is reduced to 7.5% in the next year. From this new scene, the Ministry has reevaluated the growth of state funds for the current year and in 2021. The basic set of decisions that are already in a financial budget, e.g. In terms of tax measures, it is assumed that the second stage of a reduction in income taxation is expected to occur from next year to next year's conventions and on the spending side is expected to increase the rates to 3% between 2020 and 2021 per year, and about 1.5% per year thereafter. Added to this, the estimated cost of unemployment and the high levels of countertranslation because of the crowning virus epidemic. When these grounds have been entered into the field analysis, the results suggest that unchanged, that the publication of the State Fund may become negative about 300 billion in the current year, about 10.5% of GDP and around 200 billion or 6.5% of GDP at the next one. This is considerably higher in name than in 2008 when the state's balance of less than 200 billion was measured, but less was the product of GDP at the time of 12%. On the other hand, if individual and irregular expenses are corrected for previous years, such as the reimbursement of Iceland's Secret Bank, the scene indicates that the lameness of the 20200/2021 totals greater than the limp of 2008◯2009 to name and proportion of GDP. Clearly, then, the economic impact of a pandemic crown virus is enormous in historical terms. This significant growth in the wealth of the state's funds is expected to increase the financial debt from over 22% of GDP in 2019 to nearly 40% of GDP at the end of the next year, compared with a law on public finances. Here, the importance of government funds can be considered in this situation to have access to a higher financial amount than that. Then there was the situation where loan markets internationally were closed, we can say, which led to our inexpensive ability to consult the World Bank and to need support from neighboring nations to finance the economic program that was agreed on with the World Bank. These loans were paid at a rate of 2.5%. When government funds tested market access approximately Two years after the collapse, it was clear that he was best offered loans in U.S. bills with 5.5% interest. This is the story. This is what happened after the collapse. Here we look at the magnitude of what was then like, but our availability is now quite different. It is simply a better international situation and the growth of the country has been to decrease as they rose dramatically, following the collapse of financial companies. This will have a major impact on the interest rate of this new loan. In the past week, the state's funds tested access to international financial markets and gained less than 1% of the new edition in euro, which must be highly successful in historical context, but compared to our last edition, where we were making it 0.1%, it is clear that the terms have improved somewhat. They are less than 1%, approximately 0.6%. I mention this because this is of great importance in the context of the great slope we are facing this year. I've not been inside the local interest market, but I've got a trust in the state market to finance myself in the domestic market. There, in the historical setting, it has been elected very well and with the quantitative intervention of the Federal Bank has been successful in creating space, I would like to say, for the state funds at the market for the publishing of state funds because of funding needs for this collection and this exchange. In order to get a rough picture of the development of financial affairs, the Ministry has also worked its calculations to four years. I had mentioned the years 2020 and 2021, but as we look ahead, the results indicate that if we were to do nothing, we could sit up with a sustained angle of about 31.74% of land production. Here, however, we give reasons that are very uncertain to form economic growth in the years 2022 and forward. I want it to be repeated, however, that this is not really a forecast, I'm not introducing our projections on progress, but what would come out of a field analysis to give the reasons I have briefly to swathed, and we have considered it so important that it was important to show and discuss in the Senate budget. This work continues and, of course, ends up in our document making before the fall that we see in the future. At this point, however, we are merely discussing a particular extrapolation in order to get a crude view of each of the financial issues that could lead to the rest of the world. I may not have made it clear yet, but it's a pretty serious situation I'm talking about. This is a scene that could mean a collection of four, five years of debt of about 1,000 billion. It is a revolution on what we have built up in recent years. On the other hand, the way our debt ratios develop depends on how we are able to resist and take action to reduce the level of debt and the debt that comes with it. But this also depends in part on how economic growth will take place in the years to come. We are accustomed to considering the value of the debt as a percentage of the land's produce. Together, I would say that we have a considerable challenge to set up for the next five years plans for how we are going to live up to our drinking, how we were going to stimulate the economy to grow again, so that we are not considering the standard of living that we want to ensure today in future generations too much. It is also the spirit of the law on public financial matters that are underlying in this discussion that we must do so. We have to be cautious, and we need to consider the sustainability of public finances. It is only on the basis that we are able to emphasize these baselines after this great shock that we have experienced, which we can maintain the credibility which is the basis for our good loans today that I was beginning to do. The task will be to restore the economy as rapidly as possible, emphasis on the creation of valuables and productions in Icelandic society in both the public sector and the private sector. Thus we will provide the basis for us to recover and be able to blow to the offense. A report with the bill and a package card will further identify the scenarios, their effects on rural society, and the public. In my opinion, and I'd like to tell the government, it is necessary to give a showup after this pandemic in order to prepare a review of financial policies for 2018/22022, a financial programme for 2001◯2025, and a bill for next year's budget in conjunction with contributions for the fall of 2020 meeting. Among the presidents, it is now discussed that economicism could be specifically proposed to this council, which would then be active at the August/September month convention. We had a lunch meeting today where we wrote letters on paper, almost all the heads of the classes, that the Senate could be concluded so that we tried to keep dates in the council this month, but would continue at the month of August/September to take our policies in particular before and after the events of other urgent issues related to the response to the pandemic. If there is a final conclusion that a policy will be taken specifically for them, there is no other way to say but that there would be a small amount of space to discuss it in the controversies of the plan and the budget. There is no denying that if we bring all of this together at the same time at the council, the policy would only suffer in the discussion because we tend to focus on the exports, and it will probably take some bite on this box. All of this, of course, is presented under very special circumstances, and it is most unfortunate for us to face these trials. I hope that there will be complete exceptions, since I am confronted with being a minister of finance during this elected period of time to revise my double course. There should be exceptions under the law, but here we are simply in circumstances that were expected in the law to arise and clearly call for a review. It's unfortunate that we have to apply this law of law. A respectable president. I think I've covered all the most important things in my life to communicate with 1st. I'm going to finish my case and suggest that the bill be referred to. The budget and the 2nd. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u66	A respectable president. As the law on public financial matters says: "As soon as possible. Is it six months as soon as possible? Would it not be relatively easy to reexamine financial policy if the underlying factors fail, as has been done twice? In any case, it is better than no policy, which is definitely a violation of the government law, such as. with respect to transparency. All other government responses have been made: Let's see how things are going and put them in a new package. Why can't they do exactly the same about this? Based on the scenarios we now have, even the blackest scene, it is the standard in public finance that we will work to prevent, i.e. The blackest position. Of course it can change. Nothing wrong with that. The problem I'm facing is that there's nothing now. The answer to the uncertainty is nothing. There is no attempt to eliminate the uncertainty. Easy is due. I don't quite understand how there can be any basis for not doing anything when there is uncertainty. When this is uncertain, all the evidence must come to the conclusion of doing something. And this is under government law to promote new financial policies as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u67	A respectable president. I think that the reason this wording is selected into the songs is as soon as possible because it cannot be stated beforehand in the lyrics of the law how long it can go away or is normal to pass. I traced it into my background how data will be transmitted to lay the basis for an updated financial policy. It is our assessment that we will be in a much different and better position in the autumn months now, in late summers than today, in order to establish a thought - provoking plan for the development of pay-sides and income-sides, and hence the debt-depths, which are the key elements of financial policy, both for state and rural society. We're in a much worse position to do this today. Well, I'm afraid my rural society, for example, is part of the image we have to film, is just -- well, I'm afraid I'm actually saying, in shock at the moment, is trying to understand the situation. We set up a special adviser or a supportive group at the Jónsems' Committee, which is working as a platform for the cooperation of the state and rural society of financial relations. The group is working and will give us their diagnosis of local status in the next few weeks. I'll just name it as one example of a case that's unclear today, how the effects break out of rural society. I believe we'll have much better and more reliable data in the fall to win that job. That's what I feel is getting out of it. But in the end, this is the opinion of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u68	A respectable president. This is exactly why the government should take the initiative. Governments should take the initiative to lay down the foundation on which others can build. Do not wait for some others to solve the problem, for it is simply the government that allows it to cope in such situations. Returning wealth for six months to the most uncertain situation we have experienced in recent times, as it has been said, makes me feel prerogative, both generally reasonable and out of the law on public finances. There are the baseline values to be applied for transparency, where the council should be monitored for the use of resources no longer authorised. When there's no policy, when the budget of 2020 is in total upset too, the surveillance role at the same time is dead. That's something the Senate can't let happen. The government thinks it's great, of course, to have an empty check in order to do anything without having any means to answer for it. The Senate can then ask: Why did you do this? And the answer is nothing but: Because, just because there is no direction behind it. There's no responsibility, nothing. That's why the government's going to make a move. Yes, although there is an uncertain situation, and especially because it is an uncertain situation. I think it's very serious in the big context. If others don't think it's serious, we're in more trouble than I realized.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-06-03-113.u69	A respectable president. I refuse that the government will deliver wealth. We've three-wayed this year's budget bill. I traced in my history that we have produced a staging analysis to the budget board. I reviewed how we can imagine that the year's result is going to develop. Similarly, I traced it to the direction of the next year to specific criteria and even the years that follow. We're not returning anything. Sometimes it is simply extremely uncertain. Sometimes fog and when it does, there's no use doing what's wrong. A senator proposes, just to step through the gas supply and go faster through the fog. Nothing will help. Sometimes there is uncertainty that you cannot lay a credible foundation for an updated plan. You need to make time for it, collect data, and understand how to play the game out of uncertainty. We're not talking about taking a year into it. We're talking about taking a few weeks. And why do we take these weeks? To decide what the basis for next year's budget will be shaped. There is no question that we are in some uncertainty over this year because of the decision taken during the year. No, we're covering the lines for the next financial plan, which will then be put back before Easter next year. We are building a foundation for the budget bill that will also appear this year, so the damage is not in itself as I watch it. The damage is nothing. We're just realistic about the situation that we've come up with, and it wouldn't help the council, but it wouldn't help the purpose of the law to bring in a financial program based on completely uncertain grounds. And trying to base some decisions on such a document, I think, at best, a waste of time.
