ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u1	The following members of the council have received a letter stating that they will be absent at the next time in public affairs. From the Goddess of Brjánsson Brennson, 6th. Witchest. "Birth Birgir of Þórarinsson, 3th. Southk, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, 12th. We're out of here. " Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, 7th. South, Oddný new G. Harðardóttir, 6th. South, Thorhildi Ævarsdóttir Ahvarsdóttir, 4th. Smoke. So, Halla the Signý of Kristjánsdóttir's Daughter, 7th Witchest. At the same time, a letter has been received by the chairman of the Independence Party for the daughter of Bryndís Haraldsdóttir, 2th. We're out of here. "Be absent at the next time in public affairs. Three letters have been received from the chairman of the Party of the Left Motion of the Green Volunteer that Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjörðurdóttir, 3th. Southk., Sir Kolbeinn Óttarsson Proppé, 6th. Smoke. s., and Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir 3th. Witchest. "Be absent at the next time in public affairs. It seems that it would be quicker to list those who are not away. Yesterday, on Monday, January 27, January 1, the General Assembly of the United States, Njörður served as a reserve of the 1st United States's list of the Federal Republic of the Northwestern District, K. Bjarni Stefán, 1st Presideman of the Central Vagn in the South District, Eydís Margrét of the United States's List of the South Blöndal, a deputy of the List of the South Council Party's Council of the United States's National Society in the South District, Una Óskarsdóttir Halldórsdóttir, 1sttir Pira in the southern district, ElísabetCia, United States's Specialist of the United States's Council of the United States of the United States of the United States, the United States of Ireland, the United States of Ireland, the National Society's National Society of Jónsson. They have all, except for Eydís Blöndal before taking up residence at the General Assembly, and they are welcome to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u2	The Eydís Blöndal's letter has already been investigated and agreed, but it has not previously taken over at the General and must sign its commitment to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u3	The Eydís of Blöndal has signed its commitment to the Constitution and is welcome to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u4	To answer, financial and economic minister, health minister, education and cultural minister, travel, industrial and innovation ministers, social and child - care ministers and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u5	A respectable president. Yesterday was a council meeting day at the council. We decided to have our platoon meeting west, and we went west on Sunday. Whether we are discussing those living in Flatty or somewhere else on the West, much lies on the shoulders of the Westerners. One of the issues of extreme uncertainty is the People's School. Actually, I think it's fine to the highest. Secretary of finance, the filterer of finance, hears this, too, that the message for us in politics - I'm trying to avoid talking about government and government, it's not a call for them - is a call from the people from the West and from other places where decisions are made, not decisions, no names, etc., but that uncertainty and insecurity are destroyed. It is possible to mention what happened to the rescue forces and people in Flatton, starting in summer, or as everybody at first with ports so that our people in the West do not enter another winter with the uncertainty that the weather may lead to. I remember they said the main meeting of the People's School would be next weekend. No clear answer has been received from the Ministry of Education on People's School, which has had an enormously important and positive effect on all infrastructures in Flateyri, was of great importance to society, and especially in these times. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it's not quite clear that we're going to be at the People's School. It's not just for the Flats, it's an important project and resources for the entire education system, formally and informally, for all the different people who live in our society. Will this not be made clear, so that people in the West School of People will be answered? I'm asking the highest. Minister: Won't that be done? Won't three or five years of age, or even longer, the People's School of Flatton, try to erase the only mystery of the people's board? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u6	A respectable president. For the first time, a social school has been passed in Iceland, and it was done by this government because it believes in the ideologies of high school. People's interest has been quite significant in Iceland for the past 100 years, but it's the first time that special laws have been made for a public school. The national budget that we are preparing now is set aside for a considerable amount of money at the People's School. It's a pleasure to inform Þorgerður. Gunnarsdóttir That I've had a conversation with the school principal at the People's School of Flats and told her that the future of the school is insured. While students are interested in learning and school is well-explored, we will certainly be supporting the People's School in Flatsia. As I say, for the first time, the law for a public school has been set, so we have nothing to do with school, which is a very good school. There's nothing wrong with us and the school managers are fully informed about this, so I have to say that that message as well. A senator brings me quite a surprise.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u7	A respectable president. I'm happy and have given much support to the national law, but it's also a pleasure that sometimes something comes from Icelandic soil. For example, the People's School at Seydell, an awesome phenomenon too, was launched long before the legislation came into existence. However, the law is a firm and very important guide, and I'm celebrating it again and again. Instead, I would have thought it would be easier for the government to negotiate right now and make it clear. In the case of a minister, I missed the decision to make clear whether or not the People's School would be negotiated. It is good for security to be assured, but what does that mean? Does this mean to one year, meaning two or three? What will be the sum? Are they going to be written? This is a simple question: Will they be written all over the next few days at the People's School to eliminate uncertainty? Let's try to eliminate most of the unknowns from the Western countries. People's school is part of it. Make the future clear and bright, and this will happen by means of a written agreement. Then we can pick up other subjects that burn on the West, or others in the country, but this matter is on the agenda now, and I pray to the highest degree. Minister to answer with a yes or no: Will they be written in the next part of the People's School? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u8	A respectable president. I don't know why. A senator is aware that there is a five - year budget, so, of course, the school will be completed in the long run. During conversations I've had as a minister with the school directors of Flatty, I've given them my assurance that they will be written. Somehow, this information has not been presented at any given moment. A senator, who is quite clear, and we have shown it by careful legislation and careful management, that we are considering the People's School of this country, and of course the Peoples School at Flattage includes the People's School.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u9	A respectable president. Most have come to realize that the conviction of an older citizen against the Icelandic government was judged on May 31 of last year, in which the State was made to pay a court order that had been unsurpassed in January and February 2017. The case was lost in the province, but the National Court of Legal Principles states that, in a burdensome way, the rights of the citizens were not affected, so, of course, all of this looked fine. It is a so - called test case, a respected president, and it has brought attention and has left everything to the point that in reality, only a person has a word of attraction. All other plus partners have been given general interest. According to my study, it is the decision of a state lawyer to dismiss it from previously condemned, as shown by the Supreme Court of No. 549/2002, the so - called micromanagement II, which was a little much in regard to this matter, since he has the same problem. According to the court that was also a test case, there was no tendency to pay the necessary weight. In this case it appears that those who have a right according to a court order are highly discriminated. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister of Social Affairs, whether or not he's somehow involved in this decision-making. If so, what does he base on, according to my opinion, to discrimination against individuals so gravely? If not, what will the Minister intend to do in the situation, if anything? [[The president calls.]] - Bjarni, stop helping him.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u10	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. All I know is that it's working by the laws that apply to this. I don't know about that exact point. A senator asks about, except what I know, that all those who were supposed to receive payment under this court should have been paid off and were expected to do so in the financial deduction so that it could be completed. I don't know what else it's been paid for. With this regard, I'm not exactly aware of that. However, I would like to say that with this particular point, my attitude has not changed. The amount of money that goes to the top of the earners after that sentence is money I regret. I don't regret the money that goes to them in the lower income groups, including To a mother's wpa. paritaprevir The Inga Sæland Land, which is clearly not in the top income tenant. I don't regret the money, but I regret the money that goes to the top of the earners. Some of these individuals will receive at least 700,000. ... ina monopoly. This includes: former senators and former directors. I'm sorry for their money, and I'd also regret their tows in the highest income zones because my money was better spent on the lowest of the earners. For the question of the why. A senator doesn't know exactly about it. I'll look into it, but I don't know that it's under law, that all the funds were committed and that insurance agencies could have paid off.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u11	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I have to say, it'll be fun when our choir, which is about to happen, because then he may be able to sing the same song. You see, that song sang Minister for what? paritaprevir Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson last week, spoke of the earnings and the income and the tiara and the tiara and the tiara. The fact is, the people were broken by law. It's as simple as that, and I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is he going to recommend this? Should we, then, discriminate people according to their economic situation, whether the legislative laws can be violated or not? What's the highest. Minister to make such a case? Besides, I hope my dear mother's watching this while she's being dragged in personally and private. I'm a big surprise, a respectable president. Besides that, she is particularly protected by a lawyer who, in this case, wanted so much better to be chosen to handle the case for the judiciary system, since she is probably one of the few who has such a poor pension fund that she has received an appeal. Away from seeing if it's my mother or mother. Minister isn't what it's all about here. What's going to happen? Ministers to do so in view of the fact that the law is still being violated?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u12	A respectable president. As I said in my reply earlier, we've made sure of the money to pay it out. For asking why. I will consider this in the case of a tax collector, but it does not change my view of the matter and the funds that will be spent at the top of this court. Twenty - three thousand million of the 6 billion go to the top of the income tenants, and I regret that money because it was a legal error. [[Up front.]] I would have liked to spend this money on the most lucrative groups in society. We now have a Senate bill that is designed to meet the most efficient groups among the elderly. That bill costs 4,400,5500 million dollars. K. every year. It would have been possible just for the top earners to make sure for four or five years. [[Up front.]] I'll take a look at it as a dog. A senator asks, but it doesn't change my view of this, I regret the money that goes to former generals, former presidents, and former tops in this community. [[I see...]] [[The president calls.]] I don't regret the money I made for the most lucrative groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u13	Mr. President. I'd like to have a place to talk to. Secretary of finance for regional policy and its implementation in relation to the origin of taxes and their use. It has become familiar around the country that at the time of the village, a service company is on both hands, making most of the larger chains with national activity, with the exception of the government in the capital area. Such is only part of the local work, and important management activities are far away. Incomes from this operation are from real estate fees and from the local employees. However, most of the high paying jobs are listed in other rural areas and do not depend on local work. The same thing happens, e.g. in the tourism industry, where much of the attraction that moves people to travel to the country is in the country, but many people there find little to replace. Access to health care or improved road systems does not improve in proportion to increasing users. Then there are countless sources of resources such as agriculture, marine and energy resources. I'm asking the highest. The secretary of finance whether some work was conducted at the Ministry investigating the source of the funds and whether and how it might, in some way, provide greater share in the national wealth growth that is involved in each area.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u14	A respectable president. Here is a very interesting and important matter. In recent years, experience from the extensive development of tourism is that a high percentage of tourists stay overnight in the capital area but move out, especially in the South, in order to experience the natural environment there. In the case of natural phenomena, waterfalls, geys, or black sand, and other items that can be drawn there, a day - long journey from Reykjavík, the debate arises. There's a senator here. In recent years, I would like to mention government efforts to handle this, including the following: by setting up a few years ago the travel - trade fund, where we made rural society and other traveling workers can draw support to the government to build up the infrastructure. I must also mention parish plans, which have been increasingly financed in recent years and have many purposes, not just for travel services, are useful in spreading more fairly and in better consultation with the locals of financial resources proposed by the General Assembly. I also have to keep it in mind that the contribution of rural funds is a phenomenon financed by all the public taxpayers in part, and includes. to match a position which may have the form as long as the dog has. A senator describes it. In the Treaty of the Treaty, we have discussed the matter in connection with discussions between state and community on financial relations that changes in the host tax are to be considered, but these talks have not been moved. It is not good to determine how that situation will end, but it is also a support to meet the needs of traveling in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u15	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the answer and his interest in the subject. However, I would like to say that based policy is often carried out in reverse terms, that instead of taking advantage of local knowledge and instead of taking advantage of the local government of the subjects, it is sometimes removed and are tried to put the local people against the wall of the people who accept it. The latest example is for a highland park. It covers rural areas, many of which are highly favored by tourists and where income will be made for national preparation. Instead of being taken to a greater extent by tourists and able to build infrastructure and care for the delicate, valuable areas in their districts to create distant administrations and wave, there are promises of a number of jobs to replace them. This method is both humiliating and depressing. I'm the highest. A minister to see if the money is not to be better used by making the country's settlements a source of wealth and trust the people with more projects. I mention in this example the possibility of using the valuable tax system, and you can read the word much through the corporate accounting system from where the money comes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u16	A respectable president. I think that in this context it is necessary to point out that life has developed in many parts of the country because tools are actually developing in tourism. We see new hotel buildings rising widely, both in the Southland and in the east and north, various opportunities associated with homemaking, and in reality, it is quite different to travel through the country compared with what used to be. This discussion cannot be addressed, so the country was completely overlooked. However, the challenges mentioned here are challenges. With regard to national parks, we have an example of national parks in Iceland that the next of our rural society is a huge sense of pride and benefit. The task we face with regard to the idea of a Middleland national park is to take advantage of it in such a way as to achieve the level of cohesion. A senator does not refer to a gap in the process.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u17	Mr. President. You cannot say that the year 2020 began well. We experience one storm after another, a tragic accident, the fall of avalanches, the burning of Australia, tensions in the Middle East, possible volcanic eruptions on Smokenes, and now the last likely pandemic because of the crown virus. That's the last thing I want to talk about here. The spread of this virus is being spread with frightening news, and it is no longer mentioned whether or not the virus will be passed to Iceland. So I'd like to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister for the procedures needed for the virus. What are they doing? What must be done? How do we face a serious pandemic? What about tools and tools, potential drugs, and medical facilities in case of a significant deterioration? Is the use of additional funds to raise health institutions because of the crown virus or not? Mr. President. When we Icelanders are hit by shock, we stand together. There is no government, no government, no right, no left, just one nation in one country, and all of us stand in what needs to be done. Mr. President. More than 100 years ago, Icelands wrestled with volcanic eruptions and a serious pandemic. Let us hope that the same will not happen now, but we need to expect the worst, even if we hope for the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for bringing up a matter of concern to many of us today. I agree with what. A member of the body of elders that is involved in a project, of course, that we stand together as a nation on response. I received a memo from a pathologist and surgeon of possible action to react to the virus and the situation is that no individual has yet been identified in the country, but the virus's so - called infectious ability is greater between humans than previously thought. Clearly, then, the virus has spread to more continents, and the spread is rated fast. In the United States, pre-exploitation work has been under way for potential viral loads to arrive in accordance with the response schedules and was declared to exceed the uncertainty level of public defences yesterday. Based on available management programmes, institutions will be activated so that, in the event of a widespread outbreak, the most effectively broken business can be ensured. There will be daily meetings that will include a psychiatrist, a surgeon, a state police chief, the head of infection prevention at the Land Hospital and the head of the capital health care centre, as well as the staff of the Center for Disease Control, and others within the territory of the surgeon. I am personally in daily contact with a psychiatrist, and more often, so that I can get information on the subject. What needs to be done is to review plans, especially the health care of the capital area and the land hospital right now, and this may require more specific and specific measures for the short term and attention. There will be an understanding that measures may need to be taken temporarily, not only for extracurricular management but also for the provision of preliminary solutions to those who are in the hospital but also for those who have received skill and health evaluations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u19	Mr. President. I appreciate the answers. I want to add something. However, if this particular virus does not reach global expansion, as we all hope, only a matter of time before a serious flu epidemic in the family of the Spanish flu, which struck up to 50 million people, will be restored to the inhabited earth. For a long time, this has been the case with experts. This will happen in a world where transportation is much faster and more rapid than in 1918. I'd like to add one question to the highest level. Minister for a very practitioner on the case. In view of the fact that we are now reviewing the government's five - year financial program, I wondered if it's the highest. A minister is ready to make a change in the programme, considering that Iceland's health institutions are better equipped to arrive, apparently an inevitable threat of this magnitude.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u20	A respectable president. Of course, financial plans are subject to changes, so we update them each year and examine the changes that take place between years. That's what they're made for. We need to look at how we serve and where a pot is most broken. We are now looking at repeated traumas, such as shock. A senator mentions weather conditions and such things. We may need to take a closer look at how well the institutions are equipped to provide an emergency reaction and how well health care is put in place. All of this is being examined. I would like to use this opportunity in the General Assembly's symposium and say that the public's instructions on how to react have been put on the board's page and sent to the press today because a psychiatrist would like to offer some encouragement, both for people traveling abroad and as well as for those here, to reduce the risk that when and if this disease occurs, it will spread rapidly and much.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u21	Mr. President. The government has, according to its own, placed great emphasis on innovation, technological development, and sceptre companies. However, this finding is not consistent with the available data. The proportion of approved applications for the Technical Development Fund has declined. In 2004, the placenta line was about 40%, but it has consistently declined, with only 10% of applications being assigned. This is despite the fact that the fund was almost doubled in 2016, but it has actually gone down since then and is to be drawn together in the coming years according to the so - called ambitious plans of the same government. As you look closely, the cost of smaller sceptre companies is increasing in numbers to fewer and larger. Only 19 each category received strength in 2018, but it is known that much more projects have received the highest ratings in the past and in the previous year. Thus, it appears that a good project will obtain strength, but according to the financial value of gambling, it is hoped that you will ask who is expected to benefit. Iceland has been doing an excellent job in basic research, but we are doing worse than is desirable in achieving a higher level of technology and finally in the market. I suspect there has something to do with the idea that a deceptor company and a company in innovation may not have as strong a backland for the state as such. ... bigwheat. The government's been beating himself up with this, but I have to ask the highest. Neomechanical minister: Has the government ever put any goodbyes into innovation and sceptre companies? Which view would a minister consider supporting a larger or smaller company more likely to produce results? Does a minister have an explanation for the contractions of approved applications? Is this consistent with the goal of innovation, not ensuring that projects that have the highest grade can receive the right strength?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u22	Mr. President. There were a few factors that were addressed to the innovation environment and including Ask her if it's goodbye. We need to look at the bigger picture. Happily, we reimburse large sums of money for research and development. There's a lot of money worth up there. We've raised the roof that's certainly more important than the smaller ones because it's more likely that they'll reach the roof than the smaller ones, but we've made changes in terms of whether they're called for support and that companies just need to be big X for support. We are working on a variety of legal adjustments to simplify this environment, to increase the possibility of some kind of attraction, to turn to taxes in terms of greater scope for this environment, which differs in many ways from the traditionals we know better. We have an up-to-date review of the government's support environment in the process of innovation. We put many billions, only varying, depending on how you calculate, um... One hundred and twenty-four billion, supported by innovation every year. We need to consider if they are in the right place. We're working on a Kía, the catalyst of the indicator investors, who are thought of for this sceptre where there are good ideas and where the state comes to meet certain conditions, with professional investors, when they see an opportunity in the ideas of sceptre companies and other innovation companies. We're starting a meditation program where we'll represent the best people in this sector in a direct conversation with both me and a financial minister who has the exact space for this kind of conversation. This is about looking at the whole picture, all the support we have, and the environment as a whole. When it was considered, with the main interests and those in basic research and elsewhere, the conclusion was that Kía, the catalyst of dierent investors, was the most important step in improving the emerging environment in Iceland. That is why we are putting money on it at the same time that we are adding money elsewhere. [[The president calls.]] It is true that we have not set up extra financial resources in Technical Development Fund, and I know that as a result, fewer applications will become more available. There is something that you might think of, but you cannot overlook all the other activities you are doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u23	Mr. President. V.E.G. To the extent that the majority of the questions were fired by a minister, he said that when more people apply in the Technical Development Fund, fewer are found. However, we are talking, not about a lower percentage being found, but about a lower percentage being strengthened. That's a problem. This is done from 40% to 10%, not just because of an increase in applications, but because of a number of grants, it's just lower. Then a minister begins to talk about other things, things that are certainly nice, but I'm going to see what rules will apply to Kría. In recent years, one report after another has been conducted on innovation and sceptical companies, e.g. A good report on creative articles from 2012, filled with fine suggestions that have been virtually unproved. I have to ask: What is the purpose of mass production on all these reports if it is not a objective, will, or can be used by the government to implement them and implement them? This roof is almost entirely suitable for large companies. How long will we live on ancient fame instead of preparing for the future?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u24	Mr. President. Again, I repeat, it's about looking at the bigger picture. It's not about living on ancient fame to want to contribute to the fact that companies here who grow up to be big and strong will stay here and not leave the country. Then it is important to be competitive. We have many strengths here, but we also have challenges in this regard. Living on ancient fame is not the result of the development of the new creation environment in general. I firmly refuse to argue that there is a possibility that there is neither the ability nor the will to do well in innovation. I haven't been producing any records. Through a transnational approach, we have produced a modern policy for Iceland, with a clear view of where this community is heading when it comes to opportunities for innovation. That vision is clear and good, and it is the first time that this community has done so. It's important for people to walk in rhythms, and we have a view of what we're doing. [[The president calls.]] I'm not going to continue producing reports, but we're going to take decisive measures to further contribute to the productive and positive environment of Iceland's innovation sector because we have a lot of money to pay for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u25	A respectable president. We haven't missed it since the Advertisory worm came and then all the events that have happened in January, both due to natural age and to the greater travel of tourists and others through the country, that there has been a great deal of response and management. That's why I want to talk to the highest. Healthcare Minister on this matter of her case party, i.e. A so-called outside hospital service. They are the respondents, which are usually the first ones on the scene and provide the first rescues when something like this happens and have a very varied role. The land hospital has been very busy, but these people are the first people to arrive on the scene and then come to the person in specialized assistance, such as the Land Hospital. How important it is that these groups are equipped to cope with all the major events that arise in scattered areas, often far from the capital! We picked this up at the last assembly at what happened. The welfare committee and the General agreed to agree with a Synod resolution proposal for an outpatient organization and other such factors stress its importance. The importance has been evident over the past few days and months. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister on the situation of the Ministry to strengthen and support this important subject and the equipment they have access to to these events.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u26	A respectable president. Emergency services and hospital transport have been one of my defined challenges during the past year. During the days, I received an account from a group that I ordered to offer proposals for the future treatment procedures in Iceland according to health policy. The team has returned the results. That proposal would make a great deal of improvement in our position to cope with the events we are looking at during the winter months. This group's beliefs are that all medical transports in the country need to be in one hand. It is suggested that the centre of emergency services and hospital transport be established, which has a broad role with the aim of integrating the service, providing professional support, training, and development of professions in this field and in the quality monitoring. This group was assigned to make proposals for design and education, training and re-education and to deal with service criteria, quality of life, monitoring of hospital transport, etc. Similarly, he was designed to reevaluate arrangements for medical transportation in line with the objective of the ministry. The situation today varies widely from one side of the country, and it is not quite certain that all the people of the country sit at the same level in terms of access to a secure outpatient service. Hv. A senator also asks about the specific events that are behind us, the weather of December and the avalanche of Flats. As to the weather of December, we have been looking primarily at this situation in the absence of reserve power. For avalanches in Florence, we are much more concerned with the ability to react and emergency workers, the situation in remote places that do not have key health services in their reach, the position of emergency services, drugs and medical equipment at the scene, the position and the ability of the health care professionals to perform emergency services at the scene, etc. All of this is for consideration, but most important of all, there is now a general policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u27	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. It is a pleasure to know that there is already some sort of conclusion and suggestions in this important matter. Then I'd like to move back a little bit, but not always back, to the recovery process from events, psychological consequences, and other factors that may add weight to medical institutions, psychological care, and being there for the people. It is certainly true of the storm and the Flats, and large events in smaller communities, and especially in a position that is now on the Southnes and in Grönavík, where there is a strong uncertainty. It may not lead to an event, but surely the anxiety and anxiety wake up, so health institutions need to be ready to deal with society after such events.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u28	A respectable president. In the case of a public defence situation, when the uncertainty level has been declared, as is now being done by two potential events, the public defence is launched. Because of the importance of this reaction, the organization has access to health institutions. A senator mentions. It is not only a reflex when events have occurred but also a premise because, like the wind, it is a reflex. A senator mentioned may build up anxiety and insecurity in communities as to the possibility of an impending threat. Fallback aid is part of such a reflex, and we're talking about short and long - term traumatizing help. I've been able to form shock - help figures from the Western Institute of Health until the locals, where the Agency takes over, both short and long ago. This is an important part of the services of health institutions in such facilities.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u29	President. Privacy from income tax has been at the population for over 30 years. He has proved to be a very good tool to increase the provision of less income and to increase the opportunities for low - income workers. On the other hand, those who have no income have not benefited from personal discount. Even if it does sound ambiguous, it can still be done. This can be done by paying out to individuals the amount of money that the person does not take advantage of each month. Such payment on defective personality discounts, another name negative income tax, would be especially useful here in Iceland by young people and students, many of whom earn small amounts of money but save in the form of student loans. There is growing demand for young people and children in Iceland. Since a student's test was previously sufficient, at least One college degree, preferably two. Of course, it takes years, a year in which the person's income is empty or at best very low in income. Along with university education, student loans are piled up, and despite the assurance that student loans may have to be paid back, there is at no indication of calmness with secure employment after study. All of this causes stress and distress. If students were paid out invalid personal discounts during study periods, perhaps some of them could borrow less or just make ends meet. Some, however, will take advantage of the opportunity that such a safety network offers to stop dreaming only about their ideas. Also, the modest amount of money can affect when you decide to start a family and have children after you graduate from school, for it is quite certain that even when you graduate from school, you will have to influence people's decisions about family life and children. All of these are factors that are considered to be society's means of income in the new government's prosperity goals. A corrupt personality discount was not only useful to students. Business life worldwide is developing in the sense that people are reaching out for special projects rather than for hard work. What is called the economy, and we have called the disaster economy, gives employers greater flexibility but is not directly involved in improving the safety of the relevant staff. However, there will be cases where people lose their income for a short period of time and could help bridge those periods. The requirement for continuing education has also come to be and will only increase in the next few years. This action would make it easier for people to go to school, educate, and expand their career. There is, however, a failure in character discounts that are not limited to the educational system or the job market. Part of the disability and the financial support of rural society earn so little money that they do not reach the amount of money that serves as the complete personal discount. A negative income tax will be able to change their worst situation in the world, and it alone makes this idea worth testing. President. It is known that making money requires money. Despite its origin in business management, the expression is just as good in the public. The point is, infrastructures that strengthen individuals create better individuals who will return more to society. Stress, concern over debt, and especially the lost opportunity of a pioneer who never reached flight costs society tremendously. This idea is not free of charge. It costs about 10 billion, but analysis shows that the benefits would be far greater. But the only way to find out is to let it go and measure the results. If the result is savings in the health system, increased education and increased innovations with the establishment of new enterprises, as studies suggest, the procedure will be reimbursed. At the end, I post a new title for this idea now known as a negative income tax, something that is only more positive and beautiful. After wetting my head, I thought of defeating a personal discount, one of such useless dictionaries, would be best described by the word person I think is beautiful. I encourage senators and Ministers to come up with ideas, or I'll use the character here. President. Although the word "manly person " is new, the idea is neither new nor original. Although it is not even an animal, it has never been tested seriously whether minimal advance will increase the prosperity of the people of the land. Instead, patches have been tried to cover a single gap in the holes in the system by means of measures that either do not cover the problem or spend more in the county than the problem itself. With changing careers, the fast - decreasing loyalty of a job market, and the increased demand for education and knowledge, the public does not cling to old doctrine and try to tread the community in that frame, for talking about the future is not enough. [[The president calls.]] We need to start making it and make it, we have to invest in people because the people are the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u30	A respectable president. I'm happy to take this discussion here at the council. Granted, this is not a completely new idea, but we have never considered it deeply. This seems to be a point of view, though, for youths, especially for students and young people, to have a damaged personality discount would not be an extremely expensive procedure. And, yeah, yeah. A senator mentions 10 billion. Our assessment of this shows that last year, in 2019 C.E., there was a ruined personality discount at the pressure of 11.2 billion that reflects the impact of these ideas. In my opinion, it's a lot of money. In addition, this change would be most likely to produce certain incentives that could lead to further economic growth. Also, according to the Ministry's analysis, of these 11.2 billion are the more than 3 billion who are not used by 16 and 17 years of age, and a total of about 5 billion in under 20 years of age. Because this is the subject of the study, I'd like to say that before the council, there is a bill for changing the loan fund of Icelandic students, which involves significant changes in government support to students who will make a major difference in the interests of students for the better. It is, in fact, there. They are suggesting that a new student loan system has the possibility of delinquency at 30% of the head loans after school. We'll see what the development of that case will be, but it's been supported by increased ideologies in recent years. It is also clear that we are in the middle of a series of ideas that are especially directed toward young people. These include a wide variety of housing support, such as support for first purchases, as well as the effects of the taxation changes that took effect at this time of the year will benefit prospective young people who also have a relatively low income level, since these measures are specially tailored to that group. They built even there. The assessment of a specialised team of specialists who did not consider it beneficial to charge out damaged personality discounts, especially because it would lead to so much cross-country taxes and those borderline taxes would then be particularly high on people with low incomes. In other words, this would have a very negative influence on the will of people to work. These ideas are in harmony with civilian ideas, and those who have followed them in other experiments have likely noted that such ideas have developed some problems. I'm not going to go out on that point, just use the rest of my time to say, "If we want to make arrangements for 10, 11, 12 billion, I think we should simply lower the taxes. Once we have created a system that tells those who can start working that they can do it taxless because of their personal discount, we do not understand why we should go beyond that. Indeed, the personality arrangement has benefited greatly from Bible students and young people. This reduces the annual tax burden of this group because it can use the summer to work, and the personal discount ensures that the total tax rate of the year will be much smaller. If there's something we need in the next few years, it's increasing the production in the country, and we don't do that by sending people home and encouraging them not to work. That is just the opposite of what we have to do in the years ahead. We need to increase the production in the country, including the U.S. Because we have stopped growing up as we used to. This will help reduce the likelihood that there will be an acceptable economy in the years to come. I don't like the idea. I believe that we could arrange this money more wisely, and I generally believe that we should build our system so that it is an incentive to work and to start working and create valuables.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u31	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. It's good to have an opportunity to discuss only the income tax system. We mediamen have a core policy that most of the individual's resources are in their hands. To lower taxes, to taxation is simple and practical. In this respect, the rise of tax steps recently did not improve, Mr. President. The development of the income tax system over the last few decades has been characterised by a tax burden on all income groups and, however, most of the population that the lowest earns. This is illustrated by the careful report of ASI since August 2017. A recent magazine report by Dr. Axel Hallur, a university professor, in view of the entire period of local payment, shows that the relationship between character discounts to the index price of consumer prices during times of high prices has increased tax rates by the incomeier than by those with more income. This trend is mentioned in this work of writing the word "real tax, " and I specifically mention it because I know it. The chairman of this discussion is an amateur for Icelandic language when it comes to tax issues. Mr. President. Government funds, as well as rural funds, are extremely aggressive when it comes to taxing on the lowest income and running at tens of billions. Here we are talking about income under 300,000 k, i.e. income which is not sufficient for necessities according to the official criteria available on the board's web. Mr. President. When it comes to the income tax system, there's really work to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u32	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for bringing up this assignment, let's say, which we all have, i.e. To ensure justice in society and to find ways to survive any income they have at any given time. In this regard, it is interesting to take this 10 billion as a dog. There's a senator under there because I'm not convinced that taking 10 billion at once and sharing them almost thoughtlessly, whether there are individuals under it requires money to stay forward, is the best way. It would have to at least any better diagnosis of need before undergoing this procedure. If the project or the idea is to further benefit students in particular, I may see it much more as a project to reimburse the student loan system than is expected now, either by growing down or by strengthening, so that it would be primarily those who benefit from it. On the other hand, I would like to reiterate that the discussion is a good thing because of a good objective. A senator, finding ways to improve the position of students such as I see it so largely and to some extent other community groups, is truly positive, and of course we should continue on that journey.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u33	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen very much for this discussion and her persistence in these ideas and the discussion that some part of the civil pay, if I understand this discussion correctly. This time it's been discussed whether it can be called a civilian pay something else, such as, for example. ... toimprovedamissed character discount. I agree completely with what. A senator said that we should invest in people, but I wondered if this idea is a good solution. Per month is 54,624 k. In 2020 and in the year 655,000 k. And this is the same number for everyone. I wonder if we should move, for example. Someone who earns all his money in capital income, has millions or billions of dollars in capital incomes alone, such support, a person's discount of 655,000. This year, whether it is necessary or whether we could use 11.2 billion more in support of those who truly need it. Hv. In fact, many Bible students try to make use of any possible time they do not go to school to work, in summers, and on breaks, and then to make use of their accumulated personality discounts. I think it would take on students at other times and possibly make it possible that the invention of summers would not work out the way it has been. So as soon as I celebrate this discussion, I quickly see a number of problems with this idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u34	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for this special discussion of payment on a ruined person's discount. Then I'd like to thank you for your time. Financial and economic ministers in this discussion. I think the talk is a fine price for the price and the ideologies that are behind it. I think it's in particular made two things out, first of all, that this is clearly discussed with the income tax system and the role of personal discounts in that system, and secondly, increased support to those with less income. Hv. Specialist and the highest. This 10 billion number was covered by a minister. If I go to the Björn answer. Leví doGunnarsson think the numbers have changed much. This number is 10 billion, and two thirds of this group are evidently students in the age range 16◯25 years. Then I wondered, " How do I give these people the best support? ' I think most people would agree that an investment in young people and people in general is the key to futures and innovations. This is often said to be a prerequisite for future economic growth. That is why a powerful educational system is, in fact, the basis for us to make sure that all can pursue education. For the council, there is a bill that includes the key innovations to increase and balance support in form.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u35	Mr. President. I agree with others here and celebrate this discussion. It is very helpful to go through a discussion about an expedite personality discount. This idea is very much in harmony with the tax proposals that were on the other side of a hearing field at the time where a proposal was made to resort the income tax system, raise a substantial personal discount, while allowing it to evict with increasing revenues. In their tax proposals, the restoration was supported simply because it simplifys very much in the income tax system. There has been eternal debates about our income tax system, how we should use the personal discount, how it should follow prices or pay development, etc. The fact is, for the sake of government funds, it has always been costly to raise the personal discount because of its benefit to all. Taking it down with increasing income, as suggested, would make it much easier for us to control the income tax system and just as important a part of that proposal is that it is just beyond the reach of those who cannot fully use it. I find that very interesting, for such suggestions would be the most effective of all. In fact, it would be a kind of support for students. And many times over the years, it has been pointed out that our support arrangement for students is a factor in how much students think they have to work to support themselves and, as a result, to focus on study. I'm celebrating this discussion. Although the government has chosen a second course in changing income taxes, I feel that it is quite normal to continue this discussion and see if the income tax system can be changed to this level.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for this fine discussion of personality discounts that are truly needed to discuss here. Over the years, we've seen changes in personality discounts. We have seen that a new personality discount is being made possible. There has now been evidence that it should not be possible anymore. Even though the level has not quite gone into effect yet, it has been in the water. We have specifically recommended in our people's Tracks that we wanted to adopt a so - called fallen personality discount, and we have often said here and I in this chair that I find it quite remarkable that those who are millions and women get a personal discount. I can't quite understand why we didn't take the personal discount from those who have nothing to do with it to those who really need it. This was shown in the talk of the highest. Secretary of the economy, probably up to a quarter of those who lose their personality discounts each year, are minor children, 16 and 17 years of age, there are over 3 billion of the 11.2 who fell down reduced to the last year. The question is, when we are thinking about exactly this: How can we take these 11.2 billion and really move them to where the need is greater? That's what I think it's necessary to talk about. How can we set our priorities where money is most needed? This discussion is very good. I didn't want anybody to get paid out of their bad personality discounts. But I feel that we have to do it a little better, and we could do it so that he can make the most of the needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u37	A respectable president. I agree with one authority on the importance of supporting young people and especially students. However, the basic question today is whether a person's discount would benefit this group best and would actually be useful in reducing poverty, i.e. Whether to reach the required groups. They'd have to have a better look at it. As an equal assessment, e.g. it was shown that it would reduce motivation to increase the basic wage of low-employers, a group that is very often more women. A lower basic wage translates into less work rights when it comes to retirement, and we would still exaggerate the sexual differences in a pensional age, which is even more than the sex - based difference in the labour market, as we know well. As for students, I tend to agree that the solution there is simpler than some change in the income tax system. It simply needs to strengthen the student loan system and increase the basic progress that is not being discussed in today's council. However, for young people in general, and especially young families in progress, it is appropriate to remind them of the report Children's Developments in Iceland, compared with the northern countries prepared for BSRB last year, so clearly that the need to reevaluate the important musculoskeletal systems from scratch. I think it would even be more urgent to go into such a revision than to stir something into the income tax system, to look into a wide range of ways in which a support system can be revised to young families in which the objective of the system is clearly defined, and then tailored to a system that achieves its objectives.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u38	Mr. President. Of course, this concept of a person is nothing more than a part of society's profit. The results that have led us to powerful infrastructure, good education systems, and valuable commercial means have increased the prosperity of Icelanders in many ways. The community's saving of water through water pipes rather than the need to be picked up from a well is worth something every day. Instead of riding on a horse, saving is worth something every day. All technological development increases society's profits. Of course, a personal discount is not an inexpensive phenomenon, considering taxes as the government's financing means that a personal discount will cause the State to become of some form of income that is somehow entitled to it. But if you think a person's discount as a profit from the fact that the community as a whole went up for another month and the tax itself as a way of controlling the economy, you would find another picture. V.E.G. The secretary of finance says that he is concerned about higher federal taxes, but it is, of course, that while the peripheral tax may be slightly higher that he would not be, it does not change the fact that this only had a positive effect on people who have little or no income. It is not yet a perfect suggestion, but it can be applied, of course it can be thought of. No one is going to cancel the job market because of a few thousand calls a month, though they certainly help. Furthermore, a tax reduction is unlikely to be a more useful method than an increase in personality discount, since it brings benefits mainly to the rich. It is also intriguing to hear people who are talking about the simple system now speak against the simple system. It is natural for us to discuss this idea, and it is only natural for us to try to examine how this would affect inflation and riches and prosperity. It is only natural for us to realize that in rich communities all will benefit. It is very likely that at least 2.5 billion of these would come back in the form of a valuable tax and rising economic activities that would result in a enlargement of the economy and a profit there. [[The president calls.]] At any rate, we can examine how this account works because it is an intriguing idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u39	Mr. President. When we are faced with a decision on how to spend common resources - let us talk about a combined amount of 10◯12 billion - then let us ask ourselves, " How is this wise? ' I remember that by about two or three decades ago a prominent politician, a prominent politician, who was prominent in Icelandic politics, saw that he had a very clever son who went to college and took nonprofit loans, but he didn't need the money because Dad and Mom saw him and he took this loan and bought for the government bonds that were insured, and he made a profit of 51.76%. This would be financial genius - which it was. But this is a similar idea. In other words, these young people who are studying are to be given, and they do not particularly need help, e.g. children from wealthy parents They choose not to work in summers, go to Teneriefe, I think they go to Thailand, Japan, New Zealand, Australia, Brazil, etc. and then get the check from the state fund in the form of a corrupt personality discount. There are the least of their children who are wealthy in society. I think those who are fondling with such ideas should wonder if this is the same kind of greed we're supposed to be fighting for or if it wouldn't make sense to use this 10◯12 billion to lower the bottom tax level even more than it has been. It comes best, but it's not the least of the underpayers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u40	Mr. President. Like others, I want to thank for this discussion, which is for many things of interest. I have to say, the idea for which the original - language subject is interesting. However, I agree with those who have described doubts, saying that at least it needs to be developed so that it gets to where it is due. I agree with those who have said that, of course, this method cannot lead to any discrimination. I don't think that's a reason. We have spoken in the Middle Ages that money that is available to reduce taxes is more likely to be used in general. Lowering the lowest tax level is one way to do so. We've also talked about that by lowering e.g. taxes will be opportunities for innovation and recruiting people, especially young people. It may also be possible to change our rules and laws so that our students'income, which has the opportunity to earn the salt in the grass during the summer months, may be higher than it is today, so that the decline and others do not diminish. I think it's very important that all ideas get coverage, including, I think, is. A senator taking this discussion here, throwing out some thought, whatever happens to her. I think it's very important to do the math. Hv. A senator mentioned research that had shown that it was clever and clever to do this. It is important that this be drawn up so that you can analyze what is meant, whether there are reliable research and all of it. But I think it's fine, in fact, that we're gonna get out of here on top of this, to think about this whole thing. Let's hope another discussion later when we get a better look at this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u41	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for starting this discussion and the highest. Minister for clear answers. I believe, though, that such changes will not turn to those who really need support. Unnew personal discount is greatest in the age group, and if we look at the current eco-efficiency in the economy since 2010, there has been a higher cost of buying in the age group aged 65 years and older and in the age group of 16◯24 years. This is an increase of around 40%, while the increase in the age group is minimal, which accounts for about 20%. Thus, it can be said that there is a income balance operation for the wrong age group of young people. This type of operation does not address the inequities that have developed since collapse, but young people who have certainly sat on this growth of money need some action. According to the historical record, during the past few decades there has been a significant decrease in the social mobility of young people. This could be directly attributed to the growing financial situation of young people. I want to help you understand that it is important for the government to work to improve the interests of young people and to meet the age group that has been left behind. At least I think there's a suggestion. A senator's approach is not correct. Rather, we should watch the student loan system, the housing support system, the construction of general apartments, student camps, the child - saving system, and the support of innovation. For example, if we are to attack a change in the personality rhythm system, perhaps we should stress the use of it as a balance device and direct it to those who truly need it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u42	A respectable president. I, like other senators, thank you for this discussion. It's good to discuss basics and to do so, including And most important, we're here to discuss the basics that need to be guided when setting this community frame. This is, as some have said before me, an interesting idea--and when I say interesting, I mean interesting, not bad like people mean when they say something interesting. This is a very interesting idea, this is an interesting reaction to what is happening on the horizon and we have already begun to notice which is self-activating with the result of the disappearance of all kinds of jobs and then this global economy of a so-called temporary work that doesn't involve rights. But I would still believe that this is a response to a situation that is not yet there, i.e. The situation where there is a very limited amount of opportunity to find work and to support themselves. It's not that far yet. And I'm still so old-fashioned, maybe, may I say, I'm following the options of traditional equal policy that is equal to the income tax system, the student loan system, the housing system, the child insurance, least, and public security. It is now important to add to the equipment and interest of young children who need to be overpriced and overpriced measures to care for the minimal needs of their families. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u43	Mr. President. First, I want to thank the advocate for this fine discussion and Minister for his answers and, in fact, all those who have participated in the discussion. There is an amazing number of factors that have caused the mind to wander. I have to say, I don't exactly buy the idea as it is put forward, but I can work with it and make things out of it. It was specifically said that this could lead to negative motivation for the will of people to work and the young people and students. Less experience as a conductor with young people in summer work is no more fun than the spring when the kids come to work and are getting to know new jobs. Many people choose a career based on what is being done in the summer. It's where I'm mostly watching high school, but then people get training on what they choose to earn later in life when they're working in college or at work, and so on. So I'd say that I'm afraid that this will reduce kids coming and working in the summer and getting to know something they hadn't come to work at before and gives them greater opportunities. Kids in the southwest corner often do not have much to do, so areas in the country are filled with life when the kids come and get to know only their country. Many people go into even their own business after being out in the country. That's where we could, for example. new this money in innovation, on a project, and for newly graduated artists or mountain leaders or other such, in order to get on with it later in life.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u44	President. I have two minutes, I don't know where to start. But I just think it's important to talk only about this idea, like the highest. Secretary of finance mentioned, is nothing new. One of her main spokesmen is Milton Friedman, the most famous economist of liberalism. In fact, the version being discussed here for the purpose of providing a corrupt personality discount in Iceland is smaller than the original concept of a negative income tax because the monthly personality discount is very low. Yet, there are many opportunities during the operation. What I may find important is how to talk about it. It's not cheap, that's right. But it's far from becoming an insurmountable problem. The amount is moderate, and it can be expected without the government being placed on its side. I don't think we're talking about that kind of money. A fourth of the amount will be able to return directly to the system in the form of a merit tax and contributions to the LAIN will decrease to some extent, and soon the result of the procedure will be ticked in, e.g. in the less cost of a student's departure, but he runs at tens of billions each year. The importance of this thing that I'm talking about here is that we, who are sitting here and the government, we're taking on a little pioneer thought, i.e. New creation thinking, looking outside the box and testing new things. It's not a random idea. The Economist is talking about this. Milton Friedman has spoken about this. Obama's been talking about it. There are many prominent and well - valued economists who have talked about this idea, and it is being associated with the fourth industrial revolution and how we as a community should react to it. I don't think it's a bad idea to listen to any senators like that. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason says you can't do this because young people can't be trusted with this money, they'll just spend it stupid and go abroad or into some bullshit. What is that? This is similar to the discussion about not giving money to poor people, just going to the store and buying alcohol and tobacco and drugs. It has only been shown through research and experiments that this is wrong. This is wrong, and we can trust young people and a 60,000 -- we're talking about it, supplied, broken character discount, 60,000 call - isn't just stopping people from going to work. Why do we care so much about sending young people to summer work? [[The president calls.]] The ten - month - old year of hard study. Can't we just have a little vacation? If summer work is so awesome, they'll get to see her despite making 60,000 bucks. in a month from the state of the state in a given character discount or character, as I choose to call it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u45	A respectable president. This is a big debate that requires you to take into account all the other support systems that we have in the income tax system and the reform systems. The fact is, there have been very significant growths in recent years. In fact, it is not possible to take an isolated part, such as the personal discount, saying: There are advocates of paying off the character discount, pretending that they have such ideologies completely independent of everything else we're doing. Of course, that is not the case. We have a number of other support systems to support our unemployed and the scourge of income. If we just ask ourselves these basic questions, what problem is being resolved with this idea? What is being done, and to what group would we especially be reaching? I really feel like there's a lot of answers. As I traced earlier, nearly half of the total support would reach people under 20 years of age who live under the circumstances of being willing to work, e.g. In summer for work, the first crowns are tax-free, the tax burden is absolutely low. Thus our tax system is encouraged to work hard. I don't know. I just look at this case to see that there would be something unnatural about some who would choose to sit at home and take $60. While others are asking themselves, " Wait, why am I doing this? ' I'll think of a total I meant about 15 to 16 years old girls the other day, who have worked hard to work in the ice camp with a degree to have some allowance. I think they'd be quicker to see in their hands that it just doesn't pay off when the person on the next bench in the class receives the check without making any effort. [[The president calls.]] I just don't think that in general it should be sending them a message out to the community that you can get something for nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u46	A respectable president. I recommend an aluminium program with a new proposal for the resolution of a policy-making strategy for the management of rural society for 2019-22033 and a plan of action for 2019◯2023. More of the environment and transport committees have been identified, and more is available for use. 688. The committee has discussed the matter and has had a meeting with another dozen visitors and reviews from 19 sources. Some came from more than one source. I can barely review the whole committee opinion, but I'm going to review the main focus of the rest of the section. First, I'd like to mention the goals and content of the proposal. The proposal for a policy-making programme in rural affairs is now proposed for the first time in accordance with rural legislation and the legislation on harmonization of transport, communication, rural and regional policies. It says that the Minister should give at least one. 3-yearly for this kind of recommendation to 15-year-old and five-year plan of action. In other words, a review of at least every three years. The aim of a policy strategy on the affairs of our rural society is to include: to draw together key elements of the long-term policy barrier of the state that focus on rural activities and to promote harmonisation in state-and rural policies with the global interests of the Commission towards the guide and guide light in the affairs of the rural management level through its growth and sustainable aim. The plan shall be based on the objective of rural law, government policy on sustainable development and public policy programmes. In particular, policy-making is being considered in the development programme, in the application programme, in the transport programme, in the telecommunications programme and in national planning. Care should be taken to guard against the self - control rights of your community. The proposal highlights the sustainable and self - control of rural society, with the aim of ensuring that the rights and access of citizens to services in close cooperation between citizens and rural society. To that end, proposals for action in 11 teams are set up and are up to five years old, 2019/2023. Then I'll go to work and focus on the committee. The reviews received by the committee and the visitor's case expressed the satisfaction of a concierge proposal for a policy-making plan on the affairs of rural society. Its targets and measures are generally positive outside the 1st period, where legislation is suggested to the minimum number of rural partners whose opinions differ. Inevitably, then, the majority of the committee's time with the members of the committee was discussed with them, while several tips on other teams were provided, including The financial contribution of community unity, income pools, and the reduction in debt parameters. The review made it clear that among smaller rural communities, opposition to the contents of the 1st proposal and that the matter was not entirely considered in the Union of Icelandic rural society where policy issues were discussed. A greater proportion of the Environment and Transport Committee will agree with the aim of a decision-making programme on the affairs of rural society and will welcome the steps taken when the plan and operation are submitted for the first time. Sustainable is a word that often occurs in the proposal, which is one of the aims of the proposal for sustainable development of rural society. A better definition of the concept of sustainable rural society was developed for both objectives and focus of the strategy to reach social, economic, and environmental factors. The view was that when evaluating sustainability, it was not proper to look only to see if the local community could provide certain services, where smaller financialally strong communities could extend such services on the basis of service contracts. This would also be done by the larger communities. The question also arose: If a large proportion of its income came from the County Fund, the community would feel self-sustained. The Action Programme has a sustainable approach to the financial status of rural society and reports that rural society should be considered to be capable of maintaining itself in a positive way, whether economic, social, or environmentally. The majority of them consider it important to have a common understanding and a set of criteria for objective and focus on sustainable rural society, not just on financial standards. For example, there is a full need for a joint understanding of the sustainable concept to take into account the situation in which social factors can rise above the most economic cost. Work with the concept of self-sustaining should integrate work with the 11 measures, thus strengthening their implementation. It would be normal for the Department of Transport and Regional Governments, financial, social and environmental issues and the European Union to work together on the development of this collective understanding and to provide guidelines for social and environmental self-sufficiency of rural society, as proposed for the development of economic sustainability. So the majority suggest that a new issue there be added to chapter 1.1 and is the only material adjustment proposed by the Committee. That's when I come to the opinion of the minimum population of my community. The aim of a minimum population of 250 inhabitants from the total rural election in 2022 and 1,000 from the 2026 general government election is presented as part of the proposal to improve the sustainable development of rural communities and to ensure their ability to perform legal tasks. The committee expressed differences in the legalisation of the minimum population and was declared contrary to such regulations from the smaller rural groups that sent in envelopes, as well as to the source of suspicions of authority to legalize the minimum number of rural communities with reference to their self - control rights. The European Union hailed a proposal for rural policy, but it also emphasized that the reduction in rural society was only one particular factor. The Committee also provided a view that the population of rural society should not be a measure of its ability to operate legal tasks. For the same hurt, there was a view that increases in minimum population numbers would even result in the possibility that some communities might have to undergo double the uniting process. The Committee also gave the opinion that at the decision on minimum population populations, geographic factors were to be viewed together in rural areas with a wide range of distances between urban areas. Then they were encouraged to unite the areas that were primarily to be intervening instead of building on older ground lines. In view of the views presented, the majority of them point out that the debate of the purpose and benefits of a uniting society has changed somewhat in recent years, including around the new emissions of rural communities in the East, to look at opportunities that could be compared to rural administrations where it is unrealistic for communities to become united because of geographic conditions, instead of being generally focused on community unity. Today, too, technology is used to promote governments and communities, while it is also intended to maintain close - knit services to the population. Under these circumstances, schoolwork is supported by the cooperation of schools in united rural areas, where it is not realistic to unite schools because of distances or difficult transportation. In addition, the greater part reminds us that rural communities are now able to unite, even though rural boundaries are not common and new rural boundaries may develop within the limit of existing rural society. Thus, innovation in administration and flexibility in a regular process to adapt to local administrations is an important factor, as do community experiments. It is important to stimulate innovation and to be seen as an opportunity in most areas. There is also the need to think that not always save but, rather, as a means of filing money from command to a more powerful service and administration. Studies of earlier relationships show that this is the case. At this point, the community unit can improve the work conditions of the elected representatives, such as point 8 of the proposal, and thus ensure that they have the opportunity to handle the situation better than today, with the possibility of higher employment ratios and not always doing the rural affairs as a secondary job. The majority agree on the importance of further cohesion, and the Commission's discussion of the matter has strengthened the view that, with larger rural areas, they and the whole level of government as well as increasing national equality. The majority of them, however, have to seek all means to unite their own initiatives without bringing them together for a new decision on minimum population. In cooperation with the European Union, the Directorate-Environment Department of Governments is aimed at making a special presentation and encouragement campaign and a conversation throughout the country, including the U.S.A. will be endeavoring to assist rural society to meet all objectives of the Parliamentary arrangement. It is important that the support of rural funds will be encouraged by rural society and that the integration of programmes will support the objectives of integration. The majority suggests that although it may be difficult to determine which limit of minimum population population should be based on geographic and social conditions and guidelines for sustainability, it is not desirable to alter the minimum population standard agreed at the Icelandic Community Parliament on September 6, 2018. However, to meet differences in viewpoints that have shown a minimum number of rural communities, a greater proportion of them adds emphasis on the legal implementation of the law, which is expected to be for the Council in the later year, will be due to rural society who do not meet the minimum number of inhabitants for a year of re-election, i.e. 2022 or 2026, allowing sufficient space to meet these criteria in minimum population. During the shape of the law and its follow-up, the geographical and social conditions of rural society will be looked to to as to whether there is any reason to provide the exception of principles and when rural society is made to unite because of the conditioned laws on minimum population population should in any case respect the local population's desire to cohesion. That's when I'm going to join our country's income stocks. The Committee reviewed that rural society stresses the need for both financial support for unity as a basis for achieving the objective of expanding services in all settlements with national equality and the need for both policies and programmes for building up targets. The majority believe that, in addition to direct financial motivations, it is important to display cohesion in other government policies and to emphasize that continued integration and harmonization programmes should always be taken into account in policy-making policies. At a review of the existing rural sustainable development, communication and transport programme, the development and priorities of rural development will contribute to the need for infrastructure development. The majority are aware that the equation fund has the responsibility of ensuring continuous access to some basic services provided by rural society, but it also divides the income of rural society, which they receive as a percentage of the tax paid by state funds. At any given time, rural society needs to be motivated to pursue a successful, responsible business and a certain amount of space on how it will take advantage of the benefits to its citizens. The majority also highlight translucency in an effort to facilitate the integration of rural society and to explain how the equation fund continues to support business activities in smaller rural areas where distances remain large, even if unity remains. One procedure suggests that the score of the A-section of rural funds will not exceed 100% on January 1, 227, and that a ten-year lead-in period will be given to meet the new criteria. Now the credit criteria for Period A and Period B are 1500%. The Commission reviewed that this is not necessarily reasonable. It would be important to watch the target of a reduction in the share of Part A debt and/or the implementation of projects from a Member State to a rural partner that may require temporary borrowing of more than 100% of the debt target. The majority stress that the reduction in debt plans will be considered more carefully in the consultation process carried out by the next review of the Action Programme. For example, consideration should be given to whether the criteria limit the privacy of your community in response to temporary circumstances or activities, e.g. Based on unity or rapid population growth requiring development of infrastructure and increased services. The aim of the proposal to increase the growth of public work in the country and to improve access to the services and administrations using technology encourages innovation in the administrative and sectoral development of rural society and is called to some extent on the objectives of a community plan and communication plan. The majority of the components are included in the indications included. The need for jobs to lead to the distribution of jobs was explained by a Based agency, as well as to the importance that cooperation with rural communities is an inward force for innovation in public administration. The majority also agree that innovation in employment development and development and development of regional policy needs to be linked more closely with the development of rural policy and rural development policies within each rural society. The development of digital technology and management should, in particular, lead to improved services and increased employment opportunities in scattered regions, strengthening weak points and thus promoting overall growth. To this end, a greater part points out the opportunities that may be involved in making use of a job position in a class or setting for people who work far away from public or private branch offices. Such classes can be the scene of many cooperation, encourage innovation, and create new social benefits. The committee stated that the new plan would need to be revised soon. However, the law expects a review of at least three-yearly, the majority of them consider it an appropriate time to review the experience of the entire programme and review if necessary. Still, many of these procedures are long - term tasks that are seen to change every three years. However, in view of experience and differences in viewpoints, surgery on the minimum number of rural communities calls for a special review after three years. Similarly, plans to reduce the debt ratio for Part A have to be reviewed, as mentioned earlier. In addition to the one material suggestion that has been proposed, small adjustments have been made in the rendering of the proposal. By the way, a higher proportion of the items are put in place to allow the proposal to be accepted. Under the opinion of Jón Gunnarsson, vice president of the United States, Martin Anna Sævarsdóttir, Guðjón of Brjánsson, Orri Jóhannsson, and Vilhjálmur Árnason. Ari Trausti Guðmundsson and Hanna Katrín Friðriksson were away from the case but signed in accordance with Article 4. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Then I have explained my feelings about the committee, but I would like to use only the rest of my talk period to explain my own views and how I experienced my work on the committee. I understand the different viewpoints presented to the committee that I have listened attentively. I understand the opinion of those who are concerned about the requirement of unity and the minimum number of rural society and who themselves had at the beginning of the discussion mixed feelings for this plan of action. After discussing the matter and listening to a viewpoint, however, I am convinced that this is an opportunity for better services and innovations in the settlements. This is also an opportunity for rural society to take emphasis on more urban development, not all of its support, but the emphasis. It is my conviction that the measures presented here are in order to strengthen the whole level of government. Of course, the results will depend on how those involved make use of their opportunities. Success always depends on who's going to be, both in rural areas and in the state. I believe that it is possible to create this procedure in the legal process to allow space and space for careful preparation and to provide flexibility, such as Since more than two rural communities need to start a conversation, it may require some preparation for a few smaller rural society to find that the 1,000 people still have the opportunity to do so in one step rather than go through more than one united group. However, in some cases it may be wise to take such steps stepwise, i.e. to unite more than once. Several authorities have found that a trend from 70 rural communities has been established for about a year. Thirty, to reduce by 40 societies over six to eight years, but this is similar, and in fact, in smaller numbers than has occurred between 1996 and 2000. So we have experience with it. If we looked at the year 2026 or even 2028 when the cohesion process here would be completed, it would actually take the next decade on this project, but I encourage people to go a little faster than slow. Finally, I'd like to mention that I myself have been a member of the rural government for eight years, and during that time I passed through two cohesions of rural communities, when Binglehrep and Brarreppur became eastern areas, and when the East and the former Faraway were united. So I think I have quite a knowledge of just what's being discussed here. I believe that the next decade, as I've traced, should be used to complete a specific chapter there and that the next step would be to further strengthen our rural communities. Granted, while rural development will always be a significant difference, the objectives set in the proposal will provide the rural population, which in many ways would be comparable to those of today, continue to strengthen the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u47	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the history of the members of the greater section. I've put myself on the rosary in this case, and I have some opinions about it, and I'd like to ask myself why. A senator: How can we react? A senator supports the inhabitants of my community that they do not have the ability to decide for themselves whether they will be united or not? This proposal goes out to say to the people of my community: You can't, you don't know, or you can't help it, or you can't manage to decide together. How will a senator prove this to those people? I would also like to ask a member of the council if this is the way the matter is being handled on his own rights. What's going to happen? A senator? Can she argue that the proposal is not self - determinational?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u48	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. Like what? A senator is likely aware of a detailed mnemonic memo with the synopsis proposal. It has followed it through the whole process of consultation and to the council, where scholars think of what is involved in the community's self - determination rights. It makes it very clear that rural rights are part of the country's right to vote for managers in the rural society where they live to work on the law given to rural society. It also makes sense that it is, in fact, the government's right to appoint the country as a member of a community.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u49	V.E.G. President. I wasn't asking the senator what some scholars think. I asked the senator how she feels, whether she believes that this is a matter of self - determination. I also asked if this did not mean why. A senator and those who want to support the situation did not trust my fellow citizens to make decisions. Isn't that what says in this matter, that the Council and the larger communities, because they are young? A senator and those who want to support this matter are the main members of the community making decisions for the inhabitants because they cannot be trusted to do so? Yet, over a long period of time, many rural societies have joined together because the inhabitants took the initiative, and the inhabitants wanted to unite. Here's what we're gonna do. A senator and potential more members of this hall to make the decision of these people, of the people living in the countryside. I'd like to hear the senator explain it to me. And perhaps most important, why 250 and 1,000? Why not 300 or 1,500?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u50	A respectable president. This proposal under discussion involves determining that rural areas should be expanded for a particular time. This allows citizens to have time to converse to decide which rural communities will unite. It's traced even. in a committee program that suggests that it is important that the people of each community go to that job, that it is their job to figure out the most reasonable course of action. It may be wise to unite in one place in two traffics, pass through two unitys, but in another place the decision may be to do this at a time. We're about to take a course and we're hiding residents working on the project.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u51	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir log for history. I'd better introduce the whole point of the matter in a talk afterwards, but I'd like to enter the senator at the end of the debt. The proposal to bring the debt target down to 100% of revenues for Part A and, as the senator knows, is the overall holding point for today, compared to the whole community, if I remember correctly. I'd like to ask the senator if there was some sort of analysis of how much of the A section of the country is over that reference today. I myself have been like the senator of the country, and I know this endless battle, and I want to know if this diagnosis ever happened to the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u52	A respectable president. This work on the object point of debt is about to determine whether this is the course of wisdom. The Committee did not provide specific information on this case, but my knowledge now tells me that it is probably in many areas that the debt ratio is above this threshold and we also know that there are rural communities that have been fighting to the bottom of 150%, rural areas where some of which have had to respond by building up because of a high population growth or some change in circumstances, community involvement. We know now, for example. little rural society that is fast structured, we can name Vigs in the Minird valley and Skulu Standardrrepp, and I can only imagine that such a period of building is associated with a certain debt.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u53	Mr. President. The senator is sure to agree that this varies. But what I and the senator know very well is that some societies have chosen to put some of their debts into B-parties. The most intimate example is the country society of Reykjavík, which has a large part of its overall operation in giant B-parties. Then I'd like to introduce the senator to see if there was any debate within the committee as to whether it would create some kind of thing, we should call it a moral hazard within a rural society, i.e. that they try as much as possible to transfer a larger proportion of their management into B-partners to stay within these limits. I'm asking if it wouldn't be any closer to staying on with the criteria for Part A and B in some specific percentage, but don't be taking it apart like this, as expected in the motion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u54	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I can say that it can create a temptation, I can imagine it. Of course, this happened in a way when, in fact, much of the construction outside of the farm funds, even infrastructure, like a elementary school. It is not good to create incentives that work to encourage such, to oscillate in accounting. However, due to your previous response, I would like to point out that on page 5. 19 for the proposal is a picture showing total debt and debt, that's the total debt, not the A-part specifically, since the situation may be considerably variable.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u55	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech in which she presented this proposal for Congress resolution and considered more part of the Environment and Transport Committee. We agree on the vast majority of factors in this regard. We agree to move jobs abroad to a greater extent and to promote rural development, to promote a wide range of employment opportunities across the country, and so on. Hv. A senator said that he had mixed feelings for the matter when it came, especially about the legal structure of community members, but then that result. The result was not for her only but for the entire committee except for the smaller section, which includes two members of the Central Party. I'm gonna ask you what. A senator on funding for an equation fund to follow these two parties together. [[The president calls.]] It has been spoken of as 19 billion or 15 billion. Is there anywhere in the world where we can see that this funding is coming?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u56	A respectable president. Part 2 of the Action Programme is financial support for unity. It suggests that the rules for the support of rural funds will be changed by participation in the costs of preparation and implementing cohesion with donations for the loss of income due to the reduction of equations, contributions to support reorganisation, services and management following cohesion, donations for stock costs, school workers, and more detail. This support could be maintained up to 15 billion during the period, until 2026, too, when the minimum value for 1,000 people is at least, and up to seven years thereafter. This is to be further developed, and as part of the work done in cooperation between the State and the local community, this is to be done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u57	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. This is going to help you find out. It's become a bit of an accepted practice that things are going to be done. This is a lot of money, 15 billion like what? A senator said. Do you see this in the budget bill that was done before the New Year's Eve? (b) What will be considered in the next article? Will the amount of money ever see a place there? When do they arrive, and how will they be distributed over the period? Togetherness is now expected within two years. I think it's going to have to take care of this money. Also, I ask a word. A senator who says that we have been busy together over the last 30 years. Who has been so preoccupied with unity? [[The president calls.]] Who are they?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u58	A respectable president. Thank you. Senator. Aggressor regime has been busy together. It takes time and energy from other tasks, an even greater amount of income, and an equation. In the strategy, the 3rd team is to strengthen rural income institutions and increase their financial self-sufficiency. It is suggested that the overall review of rural SEC should be completed for the 2022 general government elections, and the subsequent conversion into the programme period. I suppose we'll see this in a financial program, and actually we'll do that in a previous financial programme. But let's take it one step at a time. Now we are overcoming this suggestion, and of course the next step in implementing this support depends on how the proposal will be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u59	A respectable president. There's a little bit of anything I have to say that leads to what we're discussing here as a group. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir negative view of the consequences that have already been experienced by previously united communities. Next thing you know, we've had some luck. Second, I'd like to ask. A member of the Parliament, whether his partner's personal decision rights will not be respected, especially if his community is self-sustained and does not want to go together. I am extremely democratic in these matters, because I think those involved should personally be allowed to make a decision, which, according to the constitution, they have the right to do so. [[The president calls.]] This is what I'm wondering right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland Land for the counter-sponsored. It appeared before the committee, including in the reports and studies performed together, that no two unity is one. There are different benefits and differences in the type of service that will change or improve according to the area in which the unity takes place. It is very important in all their work ahead that citizens in each area have the opportunity and space to understand the emphasis they want to achieve the objectives of more sustainable rural areas and to increase the equality of the population in each area.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm kind of still there that I'm thinking about it right now, when we're talking about these matters, what respect is given for the self-sustaining and independence of the local community. I wondered if this would indicate that whatever the locals say, whether they're River Valley Crets, Whale Company, Tjörnshrep, or anything else, they'll just be shrunk together, whether they like it or not, even though they're completely self-sustained. By 78th. The constitution is inevitable for the independence of rural society. I sometimes have one foot in Reykjavík and the other in Kópavogi, and then one foot in Reykjavík and one on Seltananes and so many things, and we see how the Krag is built up where we're all here more and less in hugs. It would be worth the effort to ask in all this economic policy if at any time these largest rural communities were to be united. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u62	A respectable president. I expect somewhere in the southwestern corner to unite larger rural areas. In view of the goals of the proposals we will discuss here, I don't think it's wise. This is an attempt to create an equality between rural society and might not be the best option for one community to become even bigger than it is now. Regarding the Constitution as a matter of course. A senator quotes it as a three - page memo that accompanied the bill, both in the consultation recommendations and to the council, the definition of the constitution. It clearly states that rural society itself governs matters that law determines that it is entrusted to them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u63	Mr. President. I speak to members of the European Committee on Environment and Transport, with a change in policy-making strategy for rural affairs for 2019-2033 and the implementation programme for 2019◯2023. Under this minority opinion, two members of the Central Party, the one here speaking, and Bergþór Ólason, president of the Environment and Transport Committee. A smaller part of the Environment and Transport Committee agree that the proposal for a decision-making programme in rural affairs to the next 15 years together with a five-year plan is now submitted for the first time and that it includes the major factors involved in long-term rural activities. The minority is in most respects agreed with the proposal for Congress presented here. The minority feels that the State's authority should in general encourage community unity as long as it is wise from geographic conditions and is practical based on general views. There's a lot of good in this suggestion, and I'm gonna look it over here. Who doesn't agree with the beginning of chapter I, on vision and the primary objective for the next 14 years, that Iceland will become the front row of a solid and safe infrastructure, massive rural society, valuables and progressive services? Who wouldn't agree? Then comes the aims and emphasis, which says in the 1,2: 'Country and rural responsibilities respected to them' -- and loyalty will be equal to the rights and access of citizens in service. Of course, we agree to respect the self - control of rural society and to equal the rights and access of citizens of the country to the multiplicity of the state, as well as the services of a community. Then we go to the II Action Programme. section. I'm gonna skip 1st teams now, about the minimum population number, and I'm gonna get to him later. I'm taking what I really agree with, 3rd point, on the farm society income, to strengthen the farm society's income companies, and to increase their financial self-sufficiency. It's a long time to strengthen the farm society. There have been many times during the council and in many other parts of the community to strengthen the farms that your communities have. They have an answer and real estate fee, but they have to carry a service about, for example. Visitors are often used in other activities, such as fishing. Men have discussed it, such as. that the local community might be involved in hunting costs, that have been discussed, and sharing in a sleepover fee, as it is stated in this proposal to move in the season for rural society. It's a long time, and I can, of course, sign it. One is that rural income companies have been largely based on real estate costs. In recent years, with the rise of real estate prices, especially in the southwestern corner urban population and neighboring communities where prices have gone up dramatically, there has been a tremendous increase in real estate prices, so that many currency are becoming consumed by it, by business and by individuals, are falling under these increases that have only been due to small supply of houses, few buildings and contracts in the long run, even though the reality is now being realized by the expected rise of apartment prices. This has led to a large increase in the expenses of the normal person and the normal company. Nothing has been done about this. There has been no response on the part of the government. In some areas, pressure rates have been reduced. It is only a small matter. We should discuss increased spells rather than law-enforced uniting communities. I'd like to say a few words about the 5th Action Programme, about the division of state and rural society. Of course, I can sign that there is a position on the right course to move from state to country partner and vice versa. Of course, this should be examined and, although earlier, had been. In fact, it's been on the project list for a very long time with governments. They've been talking about how it had to be done for years, and they'd have to move an assignment to the country. Since then, financial support has not been followed. The multiplicity of their complex activities, known to all, has been agitated by rural communities. That's why I responded. A senator and a leading authority made more of the money to follow the harmony, whether it really was there, whether it was in sight. It's easy in pocket to promise, but is it in sight? Can we be sure of that? In force 7 of the Action Programme, of the communication between the state and the team, these excellent words are: to be careful and to respect the self-control of a team member.•I'll be better able to follow your respect for community self-control. The 11th team is really my idea. It aims to increase the diversity of industry across the country and to improve the basis for equal opportunities of rural society irrespective of size and location of sustainable growth. It is time for more work to be done in the country than has been done. We're all on the move now, especially with the technological revolution, since it doesn't even matter where you live. You can work at the computer, via the Internet, on various projects and a lot more projects than just a few years ago. It's time we put these jobs to greater lengths than ever before in the country. I'll continue with the whole proposal. In the memory of this section, we strongly oppose the government's efforts to force the unity of rural society by law as suggested by the proposal, regardless of local circumstances or people in the local community. Today, much of the rural population is to be forced into forced unity. In other words, rural authorities are to look around and carry with them the cohesion machine and find out which rural areas are large enough to meet minimum targets for population population according to this and the next law. They are to look around in order to fulfill the figure set out there, 250 inhabitants, and then 1,000 inhabitants. This will include quite a number of rural communities when there are only six years left to live. This should be completely without regard to the practicality of geographic areas or to other factors, such as the cohesive effect or the will of the inhabitants themselves. Admittedly, this reminds us of ideas now developing in a centerland park. It will then be discussed with members of Parliament to respect the people's will. Honor the people. They have repeated these things continually, both in writing, and in speaking, even in the matter of showing respect for the will of the inhabitants. What is the nature of the people in the middle of the nation's nation? What is the will of the rural society and of the people living near it? I hear no more of the response of these people to meetings and in written language than that these are in total opposition to the local community that lies in the area of the highland park. This is to be done in direct opposition to most of the rural areas of this region. Let's talk more about the people's will for the land. The minority also rejects that community unity is forced forward by law, regardless of its own decision-making rights, and without allowing its inhabitants to have an impact on the results - unless at later levels, to determine which of their rural society should join to meet the minimum population law. Consider a number of rural communities. Hv. In his speech, a leading executive spoke of the fact that the rural communities had been busy in the last few decades with unity. How's this been going for the past few years? It's just been pretty good, Mr. President. In 1992, there were 197 rural communities. Since then, 30 years have passed. Today it's 72. The number has decreased by 125. That is more than half of what they were 28 years ago. I think it's quite a success. Has there been any law forced into it? I don't remember that. I've been encouraged. It's been working out fine. And what team members are taking this suggestion? Are they many or are they few? Is it just four, five companies? No, you're not. You see, there are 16 societies with fewer population than 300. At 1,000, this affects more than 40 societies, more than half of the existing rural areas, so it affects a lot of people. I think it's best in these areas to encourage smaller rural communities to cohesion, economic unity, with the ultimate will for inhabitants of the local community. Mr. President. A smaller section also points out that for the Committee, there was a view that agreed with smaller rural communities had been lacking. In particular, members of a smaller community, specifically used the method of recommending the approval of the Parliament's resolution on XXXIV. The National Parliament of the European Union. So the larger rural areas would have, in effect, agreed that the smaller ones would be made to unite. The smaller part thinks it's an energy binary, so it's not deeper in the year, that a greater proportion of rural unions can so by their approval, in the field of the entire relationship, decide to put down other rural communities, i.e. the small part at the council, in an attempt at their will. That makes a lot of difference, Mr. President. We suggest that rural society's own rights are tied to 78 st. The Constitution, which says that rural communities should themselves control their affairs according to law. 98th. A country government law states that the Union of Icelandic rural society is a common advocate of rural society and that all communities are free to decide whether they belong to the relationship. Companys are free to decide whether they belong to the Union's member. It is also interesting what appears in the approved European Union, Article 2, above. to the role of the Union, by permission of the President: To be a joint proprietor of the rural community and to work on their common interests and cooperation. How does it look, after I've read this, when the greater part proposes to lay down as well as so many societies, the smaller part, a little less than half, and it's approved at the Council of the Union? What does it look like after I read this article about our relationship being a joint advocate of the local community? It also states that the relationship should be representative of rural society towards the state and other national authorities as appropriate. The relationship is presented as a representative of the entire community and proposes a proposal to the government, so please, now put down this less than half which would not agree to a proposal to submerge itself. What does this look like in terms of the County Government Act, the Constitution and the approved Union of representing all members of the United States? It is not unusual that many societies have pondered their situation in such situations in the light of the case we are considering, i.e. since September we agreed on the relationship. to propose to the government that will react now by offering this proposal for the council in the form we address here. Many have pondered the situation of my partner's share in terms of the Constitution of rural private rights and the purpose of the Union, which is to represent all members of the community, also considering that there are two administrative levels in this country, i.e. The administration of the European Commission, the State, the Ministry, and the Regional Governments. Let us consider, Mr. President, what this situation looks like when we discuss this at the council. The fact is that the relationship is to work out the interests of all its partners and especially with regard to the State. The relationship is free. Some community members might choose not to be involved in it, and they are not participants in the Community meetings or approved, choosing to stay out of contact. What, then, is their advocate? They have self - determination and regional power in the region. Some rural communities have just chosen to be out of the Union and to work out the interests of all those in the relationship. What is the position of my partner in the meetings of the EU when such a proposal is made? Is it possible that more of the shares, like there was a small percentage of those superpowers with force? We know that, of course, larger rural communities have much more delegates at councils in the power of the masses. What does it look like? I think very much that this relationship, as it is done and, as the law is being carried out by this proposal, thrust it through, receive the majority of support, and then leave it to the state that seems - not all night outside - will jump on the idea that the rural communities will be forced by the legal authority to unite on the basis that they should be counted as inhabitants. The inhabitants are to be counted, not because they are mountain or beach, island or impossible, roads, tunnels, or not - no, not because they are to be counted. If the community cannot reach this number, 250 or 1,000, they must be united. Practical or not practical, geographic, or financial matters are of no consequence. They're just supposed to be talking, they've already been found, and then they'll all be together. Then let them leap over the mountain, or pass through the nearest tunnel, and find company to join themselves. This is where the right of self - determination goes. Farmers can look around and ask: " What am I supposed to join together? They are directed to find the preferred components, but whether they are practical or normal based on geographic conditions is a different matter. They may be forced into adverse unity or may not fit in at all, and the unity does not result in economic recovery. We have many examples of this. I could mention them here, but I'm not going to discuss them in this talk. I can do it later. I can only think of small rural communities in many parts of the country where there are very difficult transportation, such as those in the Coast of Western Europe, Eastern Europe, and many other places where there are far between places and few residents. To whom should they be joined? The next country partner? Maybe it's just a very unnatural option, not a suitable geographic option at all. Perhaps the country society, even though there are only 150 inhabitants, is a special rural society, I don't talk about it if it's what the people want. The members of the Central Party are not interested in this approach. With members of the Central Party, who take a smaller part in the Environment and Transport Committee, two members of the Committee, the state has decided that a mutual partnership may be agreed with them, with encouragement, by promoting incentives to help provide cohesion which may be considered as practical and normal, without forcing it as expected in this proposal. I'm also thinking about the unity in general at this point. What is so important that the State puts great financial resources into it and proposes in opposition to their societies, states that it should be done this way? What's the preferred size of a local society? What is the practicality? I don't know any better, without me namein' individual communities, than that the communities that have been in most financial problems in the last few years are larger rural but not less. Will there be a growing population of material responsibilities? On the contrary, I think, at least Give the example here on land. When combining factors are considered, geographic conditions must be considered on a case-by-case basis. It is important not to work too hard and to push unity, which requires careful preparation for the establishment of citizens of the democratic field, as well as to ensure that there is concomitant support for both preparation and then maintenance. This is important, and I'm glad, of course, that the unity that will be - hopefully it won't need to be forced by legalization, as suggested here - supported and encouraged by financial contributions from the joint funds of the country. I'm on it. A smaller part of the transport board also notes that many smaller rural communities have been heavily opposed to the ideas of the legal entity of rural society in this country as reflected in the proposal for a resolution of a policy strategy in the management of rural society and its strategy against the strong order of democracy and self-sponsored rights in the Constitution in this respect. The committee presented a number of visitors, such as the leading speaker of the greater part, and as she rightly said, there were some views on this point. Men were named, but I also have to point out that not only came from smaller communities but also from some of the larger rural communities who opposed this law. Some larger members of the community met with the committee, and they also opposed this and gave strong warning that this would be forced by law. Of course, there was nothing to listen to, Mr. President, no more than present. I recall what I spoke about earlier and mention another Middleland park. There's nothing to listen to. It's just a fashion today to not listen to the people in the country. The major part is focused - I can't even talk about more things because there's not only more part of the board but also more part of the government position because all the representatives of the other classes who sit at a church in a position of government also signed the majority opinion. There's nothing to listen to the people of the country, Mr. President. - I'll probably have to give another speech to finish this material.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u64	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Karl Gauti Hjaltason for reviewing the opinion of the less part of the environment and transport committee. It showed that most of us agree, that I hear, about ten teams of the Action Programme and its proposed policies, but the smaller part disagrees with the method of promoting integration and set minimum numbers as reference in those areas. I would like to direct the senator to the question of who represents the people in the country. So I would especially like to ask him if the viewpoint from all of the smaller rural communities was presented to the committee, either positive or negative, or how large a percentage of my colleagues have criticized the proposal. In the same way, I asked if the viewpoint from all larger rural areas was consistent and that all local societies have expressed themselves on the subject of the committee. I expected a lot of community opinion. Then I'd like to go to the self - determination rights. The proposal will discuss the self - control rights of your community and then follow, as mentioned in the discussion, a detailed memo on what it involves. Does the senator disagree with the interpretation made in a paper with the bill on what is included in the exercise of self - control? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u65	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir's log for the question. She is happy that we agree on most of the things presented in this council arrangement, and she is absolutely correct. Of course, I am very happy with many of the things that are presented there without having read them all up here. I was sliding over what I loved most. That's right, lots of the things you see progress. On the other hand, I am concerned with doing things because beautiful words on paper are of little value if they do not follow up on what is being carried out, such as this with a project to the country, etc. I look forward to seeing the project on this basis and to predict the execution of this signal. Hv. A senator spoke of who represented the people in the country. So I made it clear that my fellow members, certainly not everyone, who came before the committee, were many of those who were opposed to legal alliances in order to be maintained. Of course, not everyone came before the committee, but many smaller communities claimed to be opposed to legal alliances. I mean, they weren't even listened to. Then I added that representatives of other rural communities who were bigger so that the law would not take on some of them, and I can mention an example, warned that this would be forced forward. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u66	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer, and it is very important to believe that diverse viewpoints have come from representatives of both smaller and larger communities. We have not been given any envelopes or visitors from all of the rural areas of the country. Of course, our role as senators is to weigh and weigh all the viewpoints presented. Never can all of them be taken into account, and we are left to decide which viewpoints are the wisest to achieve the goals we agree on in this case. I reiterate the first question about whether there is anything in the opinion of experts, lawyers, and scholars that have discussed what is involved in the social self - control rights that the senator disagrees with. I want to read here from the report: The Regulation on the Self - Control of the Company is in the Human Rights section of the Constitution, and it was in its time period. Concludingly, it would be human right for the inhabitants of a community to vote for those who run the community in general and democratic elections. In this way the inhabitants of the countryside would receive self - control and would be free of the interference of a king's appointed officials in the rural affairs of 6.5. The idea of community self - control is based on the democratic thought that the people of the country have the right to influence their environment directly. When discussing the status and future of the Icelandic community, this should be guided. The memo notes that with scholars'opinion taken together, the law itself sounds that rural societies themselves control their affairs according to law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u67	Mr. President. Of course, the role of rural society is expressed in the law. I read the 98th. Substitution and constitution. We at the General Assembly have the legal authority, within the territory of the Constitution of rural society, and therefore full authority to change the local community environment, their tasks, and their roles. Of course, rural society is bound by it. A country's own self - determination right is bound to a law established by the General Assembly. We are here at the council, and the communities must obey the laws that come from here. They have authority over matters in their territory. They are executives at the regional level of geographicity, and they represent the population and within the range of the laws we set.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. My prominent part for his speech. It is a pleasure to have only one feature of the 11 members of the Parliamentary arrangement involving a controversy between the memory and the majority of the committees. It is not surprising that this is the point, since as mentioned, it is not entirely at the level of government. I felt that the senator took a little deep into the years when he said that it was being controlled and how he felt about the relationship between Icelandic members taking over. I felt that certain societies were being crossed over. So I'd like to ask the senator if he's been at the U.S. and experienced the vote there. He also mentioned that many of his rural society would choose to stand outside the Union of Iceland, and I would like to know which community he means because he speaks of them as being many. The senator speaks of a recent incident and of forcing people into united discussions and other forms of conversation. Third, I'd like to ask if the senator's attention has been to the financing that has been in the countryside for the past five years. There's been some things going on. Some have ended up together with votes and other items, but others have not felt, and I experience that the Senator is saying that the rurals are not thinking about it, that they are being pushed into considering the harmony and that they are forced into it. So I'd like to know if the senator's been tracking what has been being done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u69	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Plan K. Gylfadóttir daughter for the questions. She felt that I was taking deep into the years when it came to the approval of the relationship since September. and asked if I had been there. No, I wasn't there, but I've heard of this meeting and I've seen some news from him. What I was discussing in my speech was the attitude expressed at the local council in the field of rural society that in view of the role of the Union, a proposal can be made at the National Parliament to put down some rural community on some foundation, as is the case with the minimum population. That's the attitude I've been considering. I don't know if I've taken a long time, but I ask, " How is this attitude of the council when there's a suggestion that some group of people in it should be put down and united? ' Obviously, they have rules. I don't know how much I didn't know, some were, but this smaller part's got a vote. Of course, larger rural areas are much more populous at the council and can easily accept such a proposal. In view of the Constitution, the local administrations and the role of the Union, I ask this question: How is this position to sit at a council in which local communities are being proposed to be part of a body of representatives to be met by the law? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u70	The President reminds me of a time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u71	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. It is a representative democracy that discusss matters in the European Union and those who want to study this matter more closely, I refer to a note from the relationship that is based on the evidence on the council's website. There are two questions the senator did not answer, so I assume he will use the next answer to them. I'd also like to call attention to the members of the majority of the section discussing the minimum number of rural communities, that the rural communities are given the right opportunity to meet the requirements for population reduction. It says, by permission of the president: The minimum number of inhabitants and its follow-up are to be looked at by rural and social conditions to see if there is any reason to provide an exception from principle. I'd like to ask if the senator doesn't think there's a chance. I don't think that many people are found stipulated enough, that they should have certain population numbers, but they are given the opportunity to separate from principle. Doesn't the senator feel that he is there to meet those rural communities that even geographically are not easy to unite or any other social situation? Is it not true that the senator is coming to meet these rural communities?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for these questions that I haven't answered all but that I'm going to try to do in my later answer. She asked earlier, e.g. which rural societies were outside of the Union. I don't have it on rhythms, but they're at least Someone. Somewhere I saw it. As a result of my comments about the mutual unity and palacity of this community in recent years, I know that this work was the best thing I can do about it than that it was a unit in the Southern District a short time ago, where the rural communities were united in Sandmaker and Garth. There are other examples of this in recent years. It was asked if I had observed this closely, and the answer is, of course, that I've been following this since I've been to the council, but I've only been here for over two years. I haven't seen what a country likes to think it was a big deal. They've been talking about it and they've taken it down, and they've approved it. This has been going miserably, but it has been going the way the figures are, since 1992, they have dropped by more than 120, down to 72 today. I think that's a good result. In view of the attitude of a local local society that I have been discussing, I ask the simple question: Is this normal? What happens next? They can, in effect, decide to set this reference at 5,000. They would be accepted in the power of more things, I would think, in the power of having more representatives at the council. They could do that. [[The president calls.]] Is it normal for a community field to take this sort of form and put up with the government? I would point out that this law of forced action is to go to Congress with the support of all classes except the Central Party. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u73	Again, the President reminds me of what happened. Councilmen on timelines.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u74	Mr. President. I'm going to begin by saying that the proposal we're discussing here for a policy-making plan on the affairs of our rural society is in a number of excellent ways. Most of my life is looking ahead, and I could write down most of the Bible's publications and most of the goals set out there. Although I may have other ideas about farm income and how to deal with the state and rural society, it's a bit different, not money. As shown in my previous talk. is first and last one of the members of the council here. It violates all my basic ideas to force on certain goals and to deprive the population of the few as well as the large population of my own people the right to make decisions about their own issues. I will never sign such a law against you. I will always fight it because I consider it to be violence. It is violent to act in that way. Then, when people review basic reasons for using these pressures, I'm not sure that these arguments are true. Mr. President. I know they don't think so. There is no correlation between rural financial status and size or population. We can compare small rural areas with 5,500,600 inhabitants of Reykjavík. There is no connection between size and financial status. Also, there is no connection between the enjoyment of the people by the services they receive in their rural society and the population in which they live. In fact, it is possible to argue that there is a negative relationship between the size of a rural society and the satisfaction of its inhabitants with the services they receive in their community. Therefore, the reason for legalizing rural communities to unite is not available. I think this is also about the general attitude of the Lawgiver toward the people of the scattered regions, about how we view the fact that a small population of rural communities has the ability, knowledge, and intelligence to make decisions in their own matters. I'm there. I will protect the right of a small population as well as large rural areas to make decisions on their own matters. I object that the lawgiver will act as foretold could happen in future legalizations. The legalisation is not achieved by the approval of this panel resolution proposal, but part of the policy being discussed in rural affairs is reducing the number of rural communities and extending the reduction with forcedness measures, so that after 2026 there should be a minimum of 1,000 inhabitants. I think it's a little tough that the senators don't listen to when it comes to calling small rural society, many of which are just doing well, since the people are happy for their own interests and do not want much to change. It may well be the future time for the local community to decide to start a conversation with another rural society for unity or cooperation, but it will be done on their grounds, not on the grounds of an excel people working in the scheme and believe that they have reached the final conclusion of the most practical size or number in rural areas in Iceland. You can't do that. No one has a performance or knowledge to determine the size and number of people most efficient in Iceland. No one has that knowledge. The number is 1,000, just a beautiful number with three 0's. The Hörgjörður government protests the concept of a law-bound unit of rural unions. There's just a desperate band, thank you, and urge the government and the General to respect the democratic rights of the people. So says a review of the Congress arrangement we're dealing with. A small rural population strongly protests all ideas of the legal unity of a local community in Iceland. Councilmen are encouraged to respect the interests of the inhabitants and self - determination rights in their own affairs. Community integration must be done on the basis of those in question, not with the authority above. This is the message from Skagga site, a message to listen to and listen to. This is a message coming from a Strull: The Federal Governments of Strulling Stumps and the Þinginge Islands declare they are against legal alliances and indicate that they do not agree with the objectives of the Parliamentary Directive to improve public access to decision-making and policy-making at the level of government. That's a good tip. And what do my friends in Akrae say? They strongly object to any ideas about legal unity. A River Crossword protester and Svalbardtranspector protesters protest to the legal entity of rural communities, pointing out that the right of decision is protected in a constitution. The Grinnes and Grafning Strep will strongly protest the proposed plans. A nuclear disaster depicts opposition to legalization that limits the social self - control rights. A tobacco beach similarly points out that if people were to be social parties to themselves, they should place the minimum in 8,000. It might be possible to talk about the practicality of the size. Then there's my friends in a Gakak bank crash who reject a completely legal alliance. Selfishness does not depend solely on population. The democratic activity of the population is generally higher in smaller rural areas, they say in the Gakakakfjord, in Grenivík. The smaller rural areas meet new debts better than the larger ones. According to this recommendation, at some future time, the legislatator intends to suggest that he force the Grengros to join another rural society, not because the financial situation is bad and not because the community's services are all paralyzed. There is a full - time ministry. I know only in Grenivík, and I can only say that the people in general are pleased with the way this community operates. How will people justify it in this council hall to take self - determination from those living in Grenivík, Skarga Beach, or in the armed pursuit of weapons? Let people decide their own fate. I am convinced that if people trust people, if people are given the opportunity to make decisions that matter without threats, pressures, and violence, they will be more and more happy, and they will probably come to the right conclusion, not at ours, than in their own opinion. The people themselves are the ones to whom it is due. I'm not going to discuss how different it can sometimes be, just from geographic reasons, to force unity. It's all right for a Senate world to remember that trying to force people to do something they don't want to do is to put trouble and dissatisfaction into things they don't want to do. But success is possible if individuals are allowed to make their own decisions based on their own interests and families. The result will be the best, and that will be the greatest pleasure. Let us give people the opportunity to make a personal decision. I know that in the long run, it will bring us back to the future. This will strengthen our communities. I'm prepared to reduce the number of rural society, but this reduction is on the basis of its own population, not the legislature, and not some specialist in Reykjavík. It's all right that we at this Assembly Hall and the State Department, and government agencies, look only to the local community because many rural communities in Iceland have been exemplary when it comes to success in business. If a business success is to be used as a reason to force the rural communities into unity, there should be some talk about the Icelandic state and the firm's operation. That is where we should look at things. I think we're more about to pick up a lesson in our rural society on how we're supposed to be doing it because they've shown quite amazing results in the overall picture and in the case of management and management. What is the economy without violence? A reduction in rural areas has been observed from 204 in 1990 to approximately 70 now. This did not happen because the lawgiver placed laws on them. When it comes to legalization, it has been an expansion point for the legislatator, and we have been united in that, all members of Congress over the past few decades, to ensure the autonomy right of the rural society. If a person is going to make a change, that is a huge, serious step. It's a step I'm not going to accompany any other members of the council. I will resist the legal process of self - determination of the people of this country. Mr. President. My case is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u75	Mr. President. We'll discuss a proposal for a decision-making strategy for the management of rural society in the year 2019-2033 and a plan of action for the year 2019-2023, as stated in the title of the proposal. Like what? Some members of the council may not have been aware of them, I spoke to 1st. and many of the views I have on the case were observed there, and I may not be able to trace them in particular. I got it. I got it. Congress officials are eager to read that fine talk, but it is available on the council site. How happy we are that this proposal has come out of the work of the Committee, i.e. The committee has considered it and turned it back, and it produces a little different proposal; it does not suggest a major change in the text of the proposal. But there are some points that I would like to discuss in the committee's list of parts, and several members of the Parliament have been coming in on both speeches and objections to this point. It's the sustainable society first. I think a little bit of it so that a community that's on the move to do itself the work that the law says is a sustainable rural society. Of course, in some cases it may be possible for rural communities to stand in communities or such, so that they get together on projects such as law of law, but largely see them, I don't see that they can be viewed as highly sustainable communities that need to be formed, as we have heard reports of, to have a contract deal with other rural communities because they do not have the authority to do tasks themselves. They have money, not births, as rurals to do their projects. To me, it's not a self-sustaining rural society. It has only been discussed today, pointing out that despite the lack of local law now, there have been some results in a reduction. But let's remember that, huh? Congress officials, that most of the reduction occurred at just the time that the minimum of 50 citizens were under law between 1990 and 2011, if I remember correctly, I can't exactly remember. Senators can correct me if they have a bottom line, when the law was set. Most of the time, from 1990 to the year this year, was minimal, and it had substantial results, I mean. This is important. It's also important that we present this sustainable personality to the democracy. Some members of the Parliament have been talking about the enormous importance of the fact that the inhabitants themselves are allowed to reveal their own concerns and well - being. A member of a 50 - man rural society who has a contract with another rural society has nothing to say about the services of his community. It is determined by the inhabitants of the large community that the contract is on, and their approach to the population is virtually no match for the decision. It's not my opinion, Mr. President, very democratic. In fact, it is against the democratic ideas that we should honor. Of course, when we reach the minimum number of rural society, I don't have a magic number, and I'm not going to say that someone knows exactly what a community should be big enough to be a suitable unit's most efficient unit. I'm very apostate myself because I think of rural society as a business unit, I want to view it as a community, because that's what a community should be. It's not just business, it's about making a good community. It has been said that it is practical for such a community to be anywhere in the range of 30,000,35,000 people. But it seems natural to all members of the Parliament that if we were to install it in Iceland, we would be in many parts of the country with huge rural communities, at least geographically speaking, and become difficult to see that the interests of the local community were the same from one end to the other, and not even comparable, so it would not work either. Then we come to the point where we choose to do this in two steps, 250 and then up to 1,000 in 2026. I'm not convinced it'll take an interstep. I believe that rural society, when they see the front of 1,000 people somewhere in motion or song lyrics, will not want to take the interstep step. I'm pretty sure that many rural communities, or members of many rural communities, would have a special interest in taking two local elections at short intervals where they should first vote to 250 and then up to 1,000. I don't believe that this would be what most residents would choose, and I think local government generals would be wise enough to realize that they wouldn't suggest it, knowing that they were camping for one night. I don't think that would be the point. So I want to encourage the highest. A minister I know has been following this discussion in order to give careful consideration to the need for a bill about this to be submitted to a step-by-step like this. I also feel like whether we should aim for 1,000 people or not just follow the geography. What's the country's business like? Is e.g. Do you think it's wise to have a community like the situation today that goes from Aarnes Slaps on the Coasts all the way south to the Valley of Burgurs? I don't know. But if we're going to get up to 1,000, we need to do something like that, at least. In the Smoke Company. Maybe that won't be necessary. Maybe it's enough just to stick with the old Strandiss or the next thing. It's these views that I feel I can think of for a moment. But I came into it in my first speech that I agree that we are simply there in our modern society that tiny rural communities are not sustainable. They do not have the democratic means for the inhabitants to feel that they have any authority to decide what service they will receive. It's just not like that. Next time, Mr. President, I'd like to talk about the earnings. I've recently moved here at a council, not for the first time, a proposal to hide the local Ministers' options to reexamine the environmental costs, which would say revise a law on farm income society in terms of that. I believe there are many opportunities for the rurals to strengthen themselves and strengthen the farms. I think this transition may look a little bit of the local size. The smaller rural areas are more dependent on the equation fund than on the larger ones, and somehow I feel that this debate is colored by the debate on the equation fund. Of course, that is not the way it should be. Yes, the community is supposed to collect taxes and fees and then have income companies, but the debate should be much more extensive than just that it returns to an equation fund. I believe that in addition to environmental costs, there are many other possibilities that our rural communities could enter, and we should consider letting their communities into that payment. The Gistint account to form, which we've discussed several times in this conference, is one of those factors, and we're supposed to look at it because it's natural one way for our rural society to become self-sustained, and I think it's important. Next time, payback. That's where I'm wondering, too. The proposal suggests that the credit target is 100% of Part A. Today we have 150% when the A and B parts are combined. I know the discussion that was very well done there, has been a member of a rural government, and has been in a rural government that was far above the point of debt, but where it was also brilliant to reach that standard, which is a natural cause of great joy. I think we should continue to stick to the common credit criteria of Part A and Part B rather than divide it. It's like I came in against what. In the past, I think there is no need for someone to develop such a stretch of the standard by using it or by replacing it in this way. There has to be some kind of curve. This bend must take into account the circumstances that may arise if we experience some type of trauma, if it becomes a shock like the collapse, God forbids us from it. It is not excluded that such things could happen again, hopefully into some very distant future. Nevertheless, very many rural societies in the collapses exceeded our standards today. Some rural communities even had to accept the need to be under special supervision, and several rural communities needed permission to cross the limit to respond. It tells you that you have to have space within the law to deal with it. Perhaps the way you might see is simply to see if there should be room within a particular period of time, not so narrow as today, that is only one year. It might be within a period of time, such as. A three - year - old member of the rural community could respond to the circumstances. What if a medium - sized community had to build a basic school, and that investment would predict a temporary push to a minimum of 100%. They could be financed by that community without breaking any rules, without doing so, as well. A shipman pointed earlier, going to some bix like taking a schoolhouse outside parentheses and hiding it from some private person because it's going to be over debt otherwise. It doesn't help anything either. If I am absolutely aware that there is supposed to be a reference, it would likely help. It is not to the point that there is so much vigour that a community can be in debt and then act as if it has little or none to do with it. It can't be like that. Finally, Mr. President, I'd like to come into the town councilman's working situation or an elected representative that I may not be much of a member of the Committee. More than that. Now it may be just because they agree completely with what is presented in the suggestion and have considered no reason to follow it. This is the goal of 8 for those who may be listening and looking up, in what is called a plan of action. This is a bit of a matter because it's also about democracy. This focuses on whether people are willing to participate in this democratic work as a member of the local government. We know that at least in the last two elections, the country's level of development, especially in the larger rural areas, has become enormously new. in the large rural areas of the capital area. It tells you that there's something that doesn't exactly work in the circumstances that these agents are offered. Even in a rural society like Kópavogi, the election began in 2014 that after the election, there were only two of 11 members of a rural government who had sat there before. It's so convenient that one was in more parts and the other in a smaller part, but it's quite special that there's such a rapid renewal in such large rural communities. We need to look at what it is in the situations there is the control variable. Of course, it may be the challenge of various factors, such as being an elected representative in social media age. It may even matter. It may well be that somehow people do not sense the local community enough as dodoers in their neighboring community. If that's why we need to change it. Then we need people to believe that their community is a real member of the business involved, that it is relevant to factors such as school and nursery, social services, and all the factors in the community. That it can really affect them by taking part and by volunteering to confidential matters. It is important that all of this be checked. I think it's safe for me to state that I will support this proposal at my vote. I think it's good. But I testify, as I have said in my speech, that a minister will have any task to do in building up from these proposals of government laws. I look forward to when those suggestions come to the council and hope to be true. Senators are with me on this matter so that we can contribute to the strong and important level of government that at least we can contribute to the development of rural society. I want them to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u76	Mr. President. Hv. One senator pondered over the ability of small rural partners to carry out their assigned tasks. I wondered if the criteria for 1,000 local societies could be too low. I myself come from a small country society, Whoville, where I live, 2,700 people, and I live in a country government. Based on a number of important projects, the country's society is simply not big enough and available to carry out the necessary tasks. These include fire control, collection, public transportation, the affairs of disabled people, school services, etc. Yet, doing such witnessing need not be negative. But by assigning someone else to be a democratic agent, i.e. the so-called commission from the elected representatives to the one doing the project is weaker. Clearly, a small rural community that negotiates with leading rural communities on a project or that is in cooperation with others has little or no less to say about how the project is to be carried out, its policies, etc. It is hardly a country partner's purpose that inhabitants have little or no influence on the management and policy of rural activities. However, feasibility would be almost three times greater than that of a rural society if the criteria were to become 1,000 inhabitants. In my opinion, however, Whoville is with its 2,700 inhabitants too little to care for their assignments.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u77	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. This was not a special question, but there are often the most pleasant answers to questions that might be given to speculations rather than to some fast questions that sometimes come. The Senator mentioned the settlement specifically. In fact, I am one of those who have at times criticized the fact that the democracies there, a democratic agency of the conglomerates, were not strong enough, that the democratic bond was not strong enough. So I agree with the senator. However, within the communities it is such that those who are governed by elected representatives from their rural communities are already better off than any service contracts. The contract is never controlled by the people of the community. Rather, it is the members of the large community who decide what the service is. It is an elected representatives of the larger rural areas who decide which service is available. That's why there's a bit of a democracies in there. The Senator mentioned the size of WhoType, 2,700 people. In this context, it is a medium-sized rural society. One might wonder, " Should I go even higher than 1,000 in this step? ' I believe, however, that in the atmosphere of society today, this is a reasonable first step. But I agree with the senator that it may be time to take bigger steps.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u78	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I'm going to go on where he finished, i.e. the criteria to use. You wonder if the criteria should be in the target range of 8,000 people, but that standard was set for the services of disabled persons when they were transferred to the local community, which I recall was in 2011 or 2010. But I agree with that, and I agree that there may be no further than this 1,000 inhabitants. In my opinion, it's a good first step, but it's only natural that this will be revised and continue to strengthen the level of government.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Nirder, son of Sigurðsson, answer. 8,000 marks were included in laws involving the affairs of disabled persons, but they were exceptions. We brought exceptions from that. The Westerners received e.g. Being one service area, although only under 8,000 standards, and there were geographic views, perhaps more than anything else under it. This may come into play only on what I was talking about in my speech, i.e. that we may need only look for ways to stretch and pull the boundaries of our rural society over a number of ideals or many old examples of how we view them. But the other is clear that with this expansion up to 1,000, we are not making the steps that I believe would make sense to increase the number of rural activities. A community of 1,000 people will probably be able to handle our current work, but it would hardly be able to handle such projects as high school if we take one of the items we've been talking about in public discussions, let alone an even more complex project, such as some part of health care and so forth. It is not about to happen in such small units, but it could be if we allowed ourselves to think like that. A senator may want us to go further. I repeat: We're not there now, but we'll probably be there sometime.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u80	Mr. President. We're dealing with a contingency proposal for a decision-making scheme on the affairs of rural society for 2019-2033 and a plan of action for the 2019 ulcers23. More part and smaller parts have been presented here in the Congress resolution, and I would like to begin by declaring my satisfaction with the majority opinion. It is almost consistent with the proposal, as it was proposed by a minister and was employed by a good group in many parts of the world, mainly from the European Union. On September 6 of that time, at the additional European Parliament of the United States, U.S.A. which has been discussed in this sermon today was recommended to suggest that the proposal be made in this way and that the Council approved it. I'd like to say that I'm glad to see how small changes have been made, at least ... sincethecontinents who participated in the additional European Community Parliament agreed to a forward proposal with a largely greater proportion. Naturally, not everyone agrees, but on page 20. 4 In my majority opinion, I feel like I'm in a position to meet the rural communities that protest in which the minimum number of rural communities is discussed. There is no need to waste much time on this matter very accurately, but it speaks of allowing sufficient space to meet the requirements set out and that at the shape of the law on minimum population and follow-up, the geographical and social conditions of rural society will be looked to to to to see if there is a reason to give an exception to the principles. It's a small thing, no matter how it comes up to become a new one, it will become a law laid down in the Senate arrangement. I'm also very happy that there's only one point on this committee of my share, and that's that with the minimum population. It seems that there is a general agreement, and that is well. It will be interesting to observe the experiment in a new rural society in the East, where rural communities are being united in a very large geographical calm. It is going to have certain innovations in the administration, which will be very exciting to watch for how it's going to work. There will surely be discussions and other developments and will surely come to other experiments in innovation with government. I think it's good, because we need to think outside the box and remember that we're working together on administrative but not community. We know we don't put these towns together. It is their own community, and, of course, it must be ambitious for its own people to continue their unique traits and to win their community for good, even though the government is united. A survey conducted during the last term of a rural government revealed in answer to questions to the population that mattered not entirely who gave the service but mostly to people. It is also discussed here that there is not necessarily going to be saving with a united rural society, with larger rural areas, but that there will be economic development and a stronger management. I'd like to heighten the question about income institutions that at the additional European Union Parliament on September 6, the State Fund gave a special budget to support its union. It's talking about setting aside 1 billion a year for the next 15 years, and that it is, in the opinion of the local community, is not acceptable to take from the money that is already going to the SEC. There is a request for special funds to be inserted into the balance fund to support this problem, and if it is observed, the Allied Council will change the local law and, consequently, change the development. Then it would be proper for the General to finance this support, not for any of the tax returns that are new to the rural community. The expansion of public activity in the country is a goal that has been frequently recorded. It is beautiful on paper, but we need to work on it with increased force so that the work is definitely done on the ground, not that just one job is moving on the basis of the employee's qualifying to do the job at the time, but the job is advertised without location if the employee goes to other jobs and the job is thus able to jump between parts of the country. It doesn't have a lot to do with it, and it's not a good idea. This needs to ensure that the work is moving and stays in the country. We've got a working situation for an elected agent here. I can agree with that. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson went over earlier, there are some things that need to be improved. There's way too much cross-examination in the unit phase. It is not acceptable that more than half of the local directors are recycled in each election. It needs more stability. There we need to respond. The population has grown, and the projects have changed. Let's spread it out more so that the local executives may receive a more varied project that is larger in scope, that might be good. There's also been talk of remuneration by a local government officer, that they have to leave the countryside themselves and to somebody else. There's been talk of the State Department and also about the Union of Iceland. These are all the details that need to be considered and are important to be done. I'm not going to have it all any further. I repeat, it's a good thing they've been listening to local officials. Twenty reviews received the Commission on the case and for at least two of them are spoken of as not taking the change in two steps immediately to 1,000 inhabitants. Some rural societies celebrate, there are also local societies that make comments, but the majority of the segments are comfortable with these suggestions, so I think they were here to listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u81	President. I'm glad that this program is set up here and is to become part of a comprehensive and integrated policy of transportation, communication, and rural development. The schedule includes: Talk about sustainability, greater democracy and ensuring access to the people's services. What I really want to talk about here is what is stated in the plan that the minimum number in each rural society should be 1,000 instead of 250. One way to do this is, of course, that rural societies make their places more attractive to young people and perhaps find the magical solution to the growth of population. But it's certainly wishful thinking, and I can't see from the plan that it should be taken in particular to improve, e.g. Health services in the country, providing access to maternal protection in the home-based, innovations and elementary schools, or ensuring safety for individuals living in smaller rural areas. I believe that the attempt to combine rural societies with the aim of increasing services has already been carried out and has not benefited all rural communities. Also, I believe that the thought that is involved in uniting societies in this way will not provide the objectives of the programme. A report on a Web site on October 10, 2018, said the highest. The Secretary of Sigurður Ingi that this developed strategy, with the permission of the President, built an adjunct to the sustainable development of the rural society in order to provide the inhabitants with as much as possible services. Plus, it said it was the highest. Minister Sigurður Ingi in this same report, with president's permission, is creating an opportunity for rural society to shape the community they want to create. A single factor in this may be the uniting of rural communities.◯ In addition, by permission of the president, this is a ◯bar opportunity for the rural community to take over the ball. But how do communities come to exist? Is it a sign of a good community if they have to drive for 45 minutes within the community to approach a basic service that is not offered in a human core? Is it a sign of a good society when organizations and businesses deposit in the less population terms because it is more beneficial to have just one branch in which more people live? The society's unity is not always good, and commitment to rural society is to say that it requires 1,000 people to live there, I just don't feel like they're going to work. And what does it mean to take over the ball? It claims itself, I hope, that the larger the population of rural society is growing because, while population increases, it does not change the distance between core and smaller rural communities. There are other reasons why the population has declined in the country but is considered to be a lack of sustainable goals and democracy. During the past few years, a number of projects will be taken from the State to the countryside or a law is passed at the General Assembly to legalize rural communities in order to carry out a certain service. The underlying issue is that rural society should exercise self - control over its assignments. This certainly sounds good, but as we have seen many times, these projects never come up with enough funding. It can, for example, be used. Be one of the reasons why people choose to move away from their homes. In the closer environment, there is simply not enough service to be done. Even now, institutions that have basic services are funded. People can't go to home health care, and I can't see that it changes, although two towns that take 45 minutes to drive in isolation, I don't talk about where transportation in the country is a disgrace to many places. It is also evident, however, that rural society is discriminated against by who is in power at one time. It seems, then, that rural society has to continue to fight for the fragments that fall from the table of the Kingdom. The effectiveness programme also includes until, by permission of the President: The financial, economic, and physical ability of the individual community to sustain long term the law-oriented services of its inhabitants, its infrastructure, and other essential elements of the community. Is it not, then, that we should focus on the very point of replacing yet another task to the rural communities that impair our independence? Although it looks good on paper, it will never work if its rulers fail to realize that they lack financial support and that the population lack safety in transport, employment, and health care. The Action Programme also states, with permission of the President: ▪ Care must be made for the self - control of your team members and their right to manage your affairs for your own responsibilities, such as assignments and finances. I can't see that the suggestion that the minimum population in a rural society should be 1,000 people guarantee self - control or that the people, the individuals who give their representatives the authority to control their affairs, even the people in their own country, will have a bearing on what happens. I also remind you of what says in our constitution, by permission of a president: The European Court of Auditors has established the European Commission and the European Commission. How does what is presented here fit into a community's own determination rights? Would it not be easier to improve the development of rural society in a way that allows them to decide for themselves whether they will be united with other communities? So, what's the next plan of action? Should the population of a community be 2,000? I think this strategy is about to go onto slippery paths and enter the self - control of rural society in an irreversible and unpredictable way. I believe that this is a mistake, and it is actually being directly violated by a local community's own decision-making rights and only being said in words but not on the table that this will be useful to the rural society, where it's obvious that this will -- I'm highlighting perhaps -- useful a small part of rural society that makes good sense to be interracial now and that the sum of its population will reach 1,000 inhabitants. Besides, after being united, I feel that I need answers to how to ensure safe transportation in rural areas, to form in the West, where there is already a significant amount of driving between towns, and financial resources have not been assured to maintain roads or to get shoveled during wintertime. It would also be nice to learn how this change should ensure the autonomy of a community when the State is clean and direct to tell them to do things that will directly violate their own decision. Also, I would like to ask if it would be better to use money and time to promote basic services in the country so that we can see that the population will grow normally and that it will be possible to contribute to the development of less rural societies by further empowering individuals and giving smaller communities greater authority on what is happening in their closer community instead of moving the person away.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u82	A respectable president. I can agree with many of those things. paritaprevir In his talk before me, Olga Margrét Cilia spoke. In this discussion, however, I feel that we have done little about the possible cooperation of rural society to look back and see how it has worked out with the unification of existing rural society. Is everybody cool there? Why have such actions been attacked, and what has changed over the years? Why do we face so many offenses today? Why haven't we done anything about moving the Shaker home? Why do we put exodus on? Why did the situation become secret and clear in this present hall? For example, I can take as an example a small company called Ólafjörgur. It now belongs to Sigludur and Óafjörður together in the Mountain Farm. It is a wonderful rural society, surrounded by beautiful mountains and wonderful people, all over the country. When I moved from Ólausfjörður back then, there were about 1,340 inhabitants. The place was full of life. There was life and satisfaction at the docks every day, few could but want to. They were fighting to make it to land. The old men arrived on the scale below the dock every day, in which they solved the world's affairs. There were a lot of tugs, icefish, ice - fishing boats, and intermediate boats, and they were full of small cyborgs. The city was full of lives, and there were two huge freezer houses and many seahouses. Today, tens of thousands of square feet are ruined, useless, and ruined. Why? Because of the expeditation, because of the interference between the government and the legislatator, the form we face today. This is an example of how we went on making the first billionaires shamelessly. Today, 760 people live on the other side of the Héðins Fjord, in Ólaundursund. In the last 17 years, the population has dropped almost half of its population. I've heard news from the east of the beach. I've heard how the situation must always be the nature of the case, because the service cannot be everywhere in a number of small rural communities that are supposed to unite into a community, somewhere must be the center of the core, somewhere in which the management board is the community and the main service. At the same time, we stand here and talk about our not segregation. We are not to discriminate it in health care, education, or anything. Still, we stand here saying we're going to take it from ourselves and decide here who we're going to throw together and who we're not going to do anything about it. A respectable president. I'm offended when the democracy and the autonomy of the countryside are so grossly opposed and how the people of the community will respond to the charges of this intervention of the legislature counseler. I think it's totally the last kind of thing. However, it is exemplary if the rural communities themselves are able to control it through conversation, e.g. The National Parliament and the Union where local representatives meet and hire their advice. Of course, people may talk, but number one, two, and three, they are making a decision in democratic elections whether they want to cooperate or not, especially in sustainable communities that are not asking for money to support themselves because they can support themselves. How does a person in the world think of taking on independence and self - control from such communities, whether 100 or 500 people? I don't think I'm going to realize that. This ban and policy in the high Council has been marked by the practice of saying to the voters and the people that they are sitting and standing as we please, we don't care exactly what you think of it. That's how I feel about what we're talking about right now. It is only possible that we will follow along and help the communities that really want it and have desired it and have seen no other place for ourselves than to maneuver their existence together. At the same time, I'm still saying, it's completely unpleasant if we're going to decide whether a sustainable little rural society in the country will be mixed up with someone else even though they don't care about it. I respect autonomy and the freedom of individuals. Imagine a small rural society in a country where everything has been flourishing. We can look at the Faeroes, our friends - it's not far to see -- which is seven times fewer than we do. There, a couple live with their children on a small island, where a teacher is taken to teach their children, and this is not the case. They have the same right to learn as do the children who live in the country, but I'm sure they do. But what do we do here? If there are few students in the community, it's just, you know, say, "I'm sorry, you're going to stop this, and there's going to be no school here. It's like little Anna: no hands, no biscuits. You just have to get together and move something else. You're not gonna be taught here. There's nobody here to teach you. This is the message we're sending. It's amazing. Over the years, we've talked about this and the other regulations and formalities, and this is in 11 teams, etc. We've talked about this and this and there's one thing, one is talking about the real reason things have evolved in the direction they're developing today. It is also another matter to discuss whether we can at the high Council try to overcome the bad developments that were under way in 1990. Can we do that? Would it not, then, be the first step to try to help the fragile communities, small communities, and small rural areas in the country pass on to the wealth they built for their advancement and living bread before the future of our sea resources? Perhaps it would be a good start. I wasn't going to have all this and just say that, first and last time, we should look at the independence of the locals. We have here, state power and the Council, thrown into their arms an amazing task. We put here on school duty. All parents have to put their children in school, but, oh, forgive me, there's just no school at your house. You can't be taught here. How health care infrastructures have just submerged is amazing. Such decisions are not to be taken without the individuals involved, the individuals living in these settlements, all about them. We should be here only to follow it and to help with it so that it would become reality, whether in turn, to unite communities, if they themselves want it, or to continue to follow them with dignity that is self-sustained and can stand on their own. Number 1, two and three would be very kind if everyone had access to medical services and ambulances and didn't have to lie like wood for up to an hour after getting help. What a joy it would be if our immune system were in such a position to move about in a reasonable way! There is a great need for that. And then I'm not going to talk about a coming campaign in transportation, where the city itself is going to pay the bill. We're talking community unity. I repeat, if they want to be united, if the people like it, it's just great. If they're self-sustaining and they don't want this union, we shouldn't force them to do it, because it's their right to control their own business. Although at 1 mg. 77st. is that they should obey the laws given on them is the so - called legal code that does not alter the fact that the Constitution guarantees their independence. It is only a minister who has the responsibility and authority to monitor what is being done there. We have no authority to intervene in other ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Sæland Howiling speech. It would seem to me that she disagrees with the proposed goal in the Congress resolution proposal, to aim for the future target of some 1,000 rural areas, six to eight years from now. Is it true that the senator disagrees with that goal? Then I didn't understand the context or connection to basic school. Now we have a number of rural communities where more than one basic school is being fired, a community that may have been six, seven rural communities that are now at one, and they continue to run six or seven basic schools. I wanted to understand more about where the senator is giving the talk on elementary school. The same is true of preschoolers in these rural communities. We have rural communities where residents may not be more than a thousand, but they still have a number of preschoolers. Then I just wanted to come to the Constitution, which is often referred to, and by a note that follows the suggestion, it is a detailed review of what this involves in scholarly opinion. It shows that the law guarantees the existence of a unit and that it is part of the government system and that it is not to be eliminated from the countryside. The rural population needs to be at least One or more, the local community is responsible for its affairs, and its societies are bound by the law of the Generals. Does the senator have anything else to do with this?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u84	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. No, she obviously doesn't understand what I was saying. I was never saying that I disagreed with one person or with one person or with any other objective. The only thing I stress and have ever done completely since I opened my mouth in this regard is that there is no doubt in the arms of the local community itself, but not here. The inhabitants themselves are the ones who will determine whether or not they will be attacked together. I'm just completely against forceing against unity in one way or another. When I spoke of teaching, there is now a small rural society, whether it was a Tjörn, I don't remember where it was, where after that they got kids that they didn't teach anymore, and the parents talked about it in the news that they didn't see anything but to leave because they didn't have to teach their children any more. That's what I was talking about. I'll try to find out what the country's called. I've also read the reviews... [[Meeting hall conversation.]] - Gambiey? I've also read the reviews - it's interesting that you two talk so well in this answer. Of course, it doesn't make much sense to listen to it. But what does the Constitution have to do with it? The senator back, is a what? A senator to mean that the rural communities of the country, rural governments, do not have independence according to the Constitution? Is that what you're saying? If your conclusion is that they do not enjoy the independence that I believe to give them, are you saying, because they do not enjoy independence, that we are here to impose them together over the next six to eight years, whether they like it or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland respond. It is clear, then, that the senator agrees with the objective but disagrees with the fact that the rural communities will be brought together in accordance with the proposed proposal, they will not reach a certain population. For school and school management, I certainly know an example of training in certain rural communities, but it has often been, I dare say that it always was, in some way, an agreement with parents at the time of socialization, that parents and students even feel better about getting into a school community somewhere else. Of course, that is always a bad situation. In my opinion, it doesn't have anything to do with uniting partners. There are other reasons, unfortunately, why. Regarding the self - control rights of my community, I was asking only in terms of legal interpretation. I'm not a lawyer, but I've been using a memo based on expert opinions and studies of the major experts in this field and following the suggestion. It makes it clear that the rural communities control their affairs as laws determine, and the conclusion from the scholars is that they believe that the power of the legislatator to appoint local affairs either being very loose or even saying in a clear way that the legislature authority has the authority to judge the country's systems in rural society. That's not what's being suggested in this suggestion. It is being suggested that rural society find out which ways are best together to achieve the desired goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. As the law determines, it says in the 78th chapter. The Constitution, which attracts the independence of the rural communities, says that we put the school system in their arms and various aspects of health care services and services to a former community member of the State. However, I do not know that we here can decide, for example. ... while there are some criteria, so that the freedom of the community towards its own matters is perfectly clear to me. This code of law that is included in the second issue of 1st. 78th par. I'm thinking about the independence of my team, exactly, of my own... that is quite a clientele... and just nothing that I don't have a doubt about about it at all.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u87	Mr. President. Many positive factors are found in the proposal, especially in the forward future, in order to strengthen the democracies of abroad's areas of decision-making, as well as in terms of the terms and conditions of an elected representative, and can be included as a goal of subsidence, subsidiary communities, and increased cooperation of countries and rural communities in many areas. In many places it is quite obvious that if well - thought - out, further partnerships can strengthen them, improve their service to the population, and give the rural communities a boost. However, in some areas this is not so obvious, such as because of geographic location or combinations. Emphasis is placed on the motion of a community's self - determination rights and on the committees that follow. However, the restitution of the proposal for law-circuited unions of smaller rural society, which are supposed to be somewhat steep, is not likely to give more support to society's own self-sponsored rights. According to that, I'd like to discuss the matter in a larger context. It does not necessarily mean that rural society will grow stronger together or that it will promote the local law. There is also the possibility that governments will run away from the responsibility of the maintenance and construction of infrastructure in the inhabited earth, which is built in palaces. Legal unity can become a way of leaving more difficult tasks in the larger rural areas. In many parts of the country, the Kingdom has been cutting down support and infrastructure, which are essential for good housing conditions. In many parts of the country as a result of the failure of transport authorities and governments to build them up, museums and trajectories are affected, much less by actual efforts to build them up. Good transport and communication are absolutely essential to paying for successful rural unions where equality must be linked and support equal access to administrative, decision-making, and services. The aftereffects of a storm crossing the north of the country were followed by how badly the area is treated by governments, its institutions and its companies with regard to infrastructure and equipment, how much security there is in so many areas. Thus, all of this needs to be on the basis of infrastructure, especially improved transport as well as teamwork. This was an important prerequisite for the resolution adopted by the European Union's Continental Assembly. In the fall of the year, significant financial contributions from governments, with additional contributions through rural funds, were to be made that would not be taken from the funds assigned to settle their position in order to prepare for a legal service. With the permission of a president, I'm going to quote this conclusion: The European Parliament of the European Union held September 6, 2019 2019 agreeing to recommend that the General agree to the Council's resolution of a policy strategy on the affairs of rural society for the period 2019-2033 and the implementation programme for the 2019223. The proposal is for the generous financial support of rural society to its cohesion, and it is therefore important that a government fund provide special funds for the fund to finance that support. The premise was this proposal. Then I'd like to go back to the discussion of the same proposal as this. It highlights these points and points out that the Department of Transport and the Ministry of Transport has provided guidelines on government consultations on the financial assistance of rural funds to cover rural partnerships, but there is increasing concern that this issue will not be handled regarding these specific additional financial contributions for the cohesion, with the permission of presidents: The country's income stocks are expected to be maintained at 1 billion. Annually, for 15 years, to meet the cost of furthering to the cohesion of your community. Unable, these contributions will reduce what the fund has for the provision of balance and contribution to the equation of rural income from property tax for the next 15 years. As the moisture was originally attributed to the Community's secondary Assembly, it was strongly emphasized that the state funds provide special funds for the equation to finance cooperation of rural society. It is not acceptable to assume that rural communities will have such an expense but that the State must consider a good - looking approach. Where, then, do we have the basis for this matter? So it seems that the overall impact of the bill will be that the annual donations from an equation, other than cohesion, may decrease by 973 million for the next six years and then by 700 million for the next ten years, totaling nearly 12 billion in the next 15 years. A major factor is the reduction of other initiatives due to a much larger uniting process. Is that what we wanted? It is unacceptable if individual and special contributions to pay for further partnerships will be taken from the funds that are due to balance the local community's facilities for a legal service. There is no way to support the loss of budgeting donations because of this. The pantry fund is designed to balance this difference. Little rural society, global and/or multinuclear societies, some of which are not particularly small or small, have used these contributions to maintain the good school work and many services, which provide the basis for adequate housing conditions. The inhabitants of these rural communities are not required to pay for living things and services that are supported by others in unity. The Parliament must ensure that the funds made promised to meet the united and united arrangements made by special donations. Otherwise, there is the basis for the approval of my country council from the fall smiles, in my opinion of supporting the Senate resolution. Reports are that Reykjavíkurburg has made a 6 billion requirement for a rural society in which its capital is considered to have been highly dominated, and as a result of its central role, it is more difficult to maintain a law - directed service to take in less rural society, a polynuclear, and a dispersion, as it is more difficult and more expensive to maintain a legal service. There's not much of a similar responsibility in our capital, the biggest and most powerful community, where all of our administrations are, income from government property, tax revenues, etc. If this works, the equation fund is in a state of confusion and uncertainty that it can fulfill its role. Your community activities will also be upset and, in my opinion, your proposal as well as the one that is being discussed here. She must be upset, too, if this works out. In view of this situation and my doubt as to the rightfulness of the legal alliances of rural society, I cannot support the proposal unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u88	A respectable president. This is an interesting case that we have here, and I would like to start by wondering about interesting associates about the Constitution and this legalization, as the Commission calls it, where the Council is asking the Minister in effect to submit a bill to break a constitution. I'm gonna try to explain why. On the one hand, we have an article by Sigurður Óli Kolbeinsson and Jónsson, where they deal with the administrative positions of rural partners and their legal affairs, including the permission of a president: 1st. 78th par. Council of the Republic of Iceland, No. 33/144, with subsequent changes, says: 'Communications must be controlled by law itself.' This means that the existence of a community is guaranteed by administration laws and therefore will not be removed by public law. - It's as simple as that. However, we are with a European Convention on the Self - Control of a rural society signed by Iceland in Article 2. Part I, by permission of the President: ▪ Governmental and legal basis for community self - control The principle of community self-control should be accepted in the law of the land and in the Constitution if possible. What's more important is that to 5. says, with permission of the president: ▪ Protect locality of rural society Changes in locality should not be made without first checking the opinion of the relevant rural partners, such as by public votes where the law permits. What lies ahead in the Senate resolution proposal is putting a mass limit on rural society, and somehow it is implemented in a bill to correct it. What happens when it gets into a bill and it's all gone, and the country society says, "No, I'm not going to join anyone." There is no reconciliation, therefore, in a vote - what? What can governmentally be done to say to a community: Yes, sure, you're united, you're united now united? You can't force a community to unite with another by law, so there's a bit of a gap in this council-sense proposal to expect rural society to be united. They can do this only with their own personal rights of decision. True, it is good to encourage them to do so, but they cannot be forced. There are other interesting factors to consider in this regard. There has been much discussion of organizational authority, e.g. About the airport in Reykjavík. Some have expected Reykjavík to conduct his organizational authority according to the head of other rural groups. It has been repeatedly recognized that in Reykjavík, no one other than the city of Reykjavík will have the means to organize matters. It also means that rural boundaries or the organizational authority of other rural groups cannot be extended in any way except by their consent. This generates an interesting friendship with the process being proposed here according to the constitution and the uncircumcised organizational authority of rural society. I called attention to this in the Committee's office, asking for an analysis to see if this could resist a constitution. There was not much listening to it, so I drew attention to it here, just so I repeat it as simple as: Here's the Council to ask the Minister to submit a bill that breaks the constitution. I don't think it's very good on the part of the Generals if we're to keep the Constitution in check.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The speech was given to Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson. I respect the fact that we can have different opinions about the right way to encourage rural society to unite. But what I want to ask you is why. A senator is the memo that has followed the motion throughout the process, both the process of enforcing and the reviews to the Council, and is a summary of the opinion of law scholars as to what really is the self - control right of the rural society. In 1st. 78th par. The Constitution says: ◯Investigators shall themselves control their affairs as the law decides. Organizational laws dictate the work of an organization in rural areas, where local communities have specific roles. National planning, however, is adopted at the General Assembly, so it is determined by the General of the Council how organized communities are treated. I would like to ask the senator if his interpretation of the matter is not also his. In this same memo, the opinion of several scholars on the rights of the legislature to change the country's ship is summed up in a summary of the same memo. It says: ▪ As a result of the results of scholars, and the four referred to there - the legislative power of the legislatator to appoint affairs of rural society, or to state in a clear way that the legislature authority has the authority to govern the rural systems of the country. This would actually be the case if it took place here at the General Assembly. Is this also an understanding of why? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u90	A respectable president. I'm going back to what I said earlier. In this article on the administrative position of rural partners and their legal affairs, the President's permission states: It means that the existence of a community is guaranteed by a government law and therefore will not be taken away by public law. This simply means that the Council can't say that a unit of X doesn't exist and unite Y's team. It's just not the power we have here at the council to do. If we place mass limits on rural society, they are still limited to all the limits of the community's existence, in effect, according to that right. If the country club says, "No, I'm not going to join this one, not this one, and I don't have this contract and I don't vote for the people of the country to end with no, then there's nothing we can do about it. Nothing. We cannot say: You disagreed with me. It was your democratic right to vote for it. The result was no. As a result, we will unite you with some kind of authority. We just can't.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u91	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. In the same memo I quoted here, a summary of scholars says about the procedure in the constitution: ▪ If the law is clear according to the words, the material content of the law is primarily as follows: 1st It ensures that rural society exists and that it must be part of the government system of things. After a unchanged constitution, the rural status could not be submitted. - The entirety of the control team. ▪2. Municipalisations need to be at least More than one. 3. Civilians themselves control their affairs, but this depends on the current laws of the legislator at any given time which issues they are. - Whether it's the planning or the elementary school or something else, as I understand it. ◯4. Companys are bound by the Federal Code of the United States. As I interpret it, I'm nothing more than that the Council could actually draw down on paper what local communities should look like and decide. But that is not at all what I would ever suggest or be interested in our going in here. But I believe the Council has quite a power to determine, however, the order of the rural communities. Then there's another matter of teamwork. What is suggested in this suggestion is that a objective be chosen and cooperated with local society and the state to achieve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u92	A respectable president. I just don't think it's the correct interpretation of this law at all. It really has to do with the local community. Once they're on a different level, they can't be confused over which rural society is where. So I testify again in the European Treaty about the self-control of a community we've signed, which is precisely to ensure the rights of our rural society as such, is spoken of as the protection of local communities, by permission of a president: The local boundaries of the local community should not be changed without first checking the opinion of the relevant rural partners, such as by public votes where the law permits. How clear it is that if we are going to change our local boundaries by force from the General Assembly, we are breaking this covenant, this article of the covenant, in a very clear and clear manner, according to the words there. On the other hand, if it's not a unit level or something like that, it needs to be reassigned, then you can jump it all you want. But when it comes to it, the rights and existence of each community are clear and self - controlled.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u93	A respectable president. We're here going to discuss a proposal for a decision-making strategy on the affairs of rural society for 2019-2023, and it follows a plan of action for 2019◯223. It is safe to say that there is one of the biggest topics of this discussion as well as the previous discussion. That is what some of us call law-enforcement and turn to the minimum number of inhabitants. Over the years, I have expressed doubts about these legal measures. I haven't changed from that opinion, but I feel that Congress resolution and its contents have been given a rather small discussion because there are some extraordinary things here to be found and certainly killed at the committee party of the greater part and gone a bit, the nature of the case, over the legislation. I feel that the two biggest differences have to do with the population minimum and the fact that we're doing this in two ways. I agree with what has been mentioned, that it may not be wise to have a cohesion process, and then four years later, if you don't have a chance to take a bigger one together for the first episode, you need another. That's a lot of stress and a lot of noise. I know that's been going through it in my community, and I've watched large gatherings like the east and other cities. I remember that when we were going into this cohesive process in the Mountain area, the message from the east was, "Don't do what you have to do when you make this decision, i.e. affected the infrastructure in multiple doses. Just decide what you're gonna have and do it. Of course, we did not, as so often as we would like to be. Some were decided to wait, and some were not. Today, such unity has been shown to have failed in different ways. As it goes and happens, we usually learn from others but not always. But what is hoping, and I would have liked to see that we kept them going, despite the fact that I understand the views of rural areas having to be a larger unit to take in some particular government government assignment, the projects that have just been approved in the East, which cover a vast flood of water from the Deep-City down to the Off-City, and the Seysfjord and the district between. This is done after a considerable amount of preparation because local government and local residents decided to do so, much information, and so forth. Then there's the model that's being installed, which I think is very important to prevent what's been heard most about in the merges that've been going on in the past few years or decades and are still in the news today, this about the edgelines being left out. Their inhabitants will find the arrangement that has been available to them not necessarily function as it should. I hope that this is something that will be exemplary when you are being united, even if it does not cover such a territory as this. Then, of course, there's a Strulling Scorpio and the Thieves who also decided to go on their own terms and watch innovation and are a great vision there, I think, to make the harmony the best of the population and to look beyond the traditional framework when it comes to uniting societies. I made a note of this, and I really hope that when a minister starts writing the bill to follow, they will be listened to it. Although the majority of the committee have not taken sides in this regard, he tore them to worry here. In particular, I mention not to go into this with the population in two doses and even consider and consider some geographic areas. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson just mentioned the area that would be geographically large, and the management could then be far from the majority of the population in the most widely distributed settlements. You need to know if the criteria need to be 1,000 citizens because they haven't given direct support to why they have to be on that basis, that's just a conclusion. This needs to be taken out and seen to what rural areas it would be that would require extras from the 1,000, perhaps 600 or 700, and geographically there would be no one in particular to unite a larger area. It would be interesting to see such things in view of the nature of this matter. It cannot be overlooked that at this increased meeting of the European Union, where the proposal was adopted and supported by the Union, largely not agreeing with that approach and felt overwhelmed by the option. We need to meet them in some way. We don't have to fall away from what is suggested here, but at least we have to bend it so that people can be comfortable with pleasures and even with them. take it out and look. Because the report was quoted and the article on the social status of rural society and geographically, I feel that there is something I need to approach here. What can we see in this context? I think there's a lot of good things in this council arrangement. I understand that this point has had the most intimate discussion because there are so many things under it. You realize that people are concerned, and people in the perimeter are always worried. Of course, there are examples, as we know, that the settlements in the rural community, where everything has been scattered in the midst of the mass. So it's fine that some of this is possible. I'm just gonna kill on what I like in the Congress resolution and the Action Programme. That's even. Article 13 of cooperation on the implementation of the programme and consultations on rural issues. The Treaty is always the main factor in the European Union, and we know that it's not a representative of the small rural community. It's usually just the big communities that represent the board, and that's why the little communities feel that they're responsible. But here, for example. expected that the General will be regularly provided with a report on the implementation of policy and assessments that are being discussed at any given time in relations between state and rural society. It is our annual meeting of the representatives of the government and the European Union of the United States. Since I have been on a budget for many years, I know that the later years have often been good, yet the gray areas, as the relationship says, are still too many, including. Thus, the cost of the estimate is found by primes, proposals, and other factors lacking in them. In the past, financial barriers to unity were to be broken. I think it's important that we realize that this committee is based on the fact that we take it out of parentheses. We are not putting it up with this proposal. Rather, it is something that needs to be made up of a conversation between the state and the Union's members before the legislation of the materials to be based on this proposal. The council will not be submitted until the result is found in funding. I think it's clear that everyone has to agree, but there's been some difference of opinion. At the outset, the project was set out to extract billions of dollars in 15 years, but more of the committee decided that this was not necessarily the way to go, so they wanted to talk about it. I think we're working on this proposal so that a minister can prepare a bill and figure out how we're going to help it work. This has been a brief discussion of the income of rural society, and I just think that, as my party brother said earlier, we should discuss this from income institutions, where we can and how to increase our income partnerships, rather than continue to face the fact that some rural communities get 30, 40, 50% of their income from an equation fund. It's not sustainable, I think we can at least Said. The gratifying price is worth a lot of money, but it's not the only price. Like other things, we need to look beyond the box. I was well over my finances, so I'm not going to waste my time on it. I want to tell you about the national body that, as mentioned here, I think it's very important to explain the position and role of the organization. They have played different roles depending on where they are located. I think it's possible to say that the government rejects this third administrative level, at least compared to my conversations with that. We are not a large people, but it was said that this organization could be. There has also been a democratic palace, such as because of my team members, so that neither would I have considered it good. So I think, in view of the changes here, it's important to look into this. It is our senators to have the conversation with our national and rural governments about how they provide for themselves. There's been no discussion of point 7 about communication between state and rural society. It suggests that by permission of the president, the benefits of setting up a committee or a judicial committee should be determined by an unscrupulous model of disagreements that may arise in the relations of the state and rural society and that other governments are not entrusted to the release. I find this interesting. This is something we haven't had here, but we have, like, role models from other places where it's worked well. Of course, this does not mean that communities or both parties cannot consult courts. There are two more things I'd like to mention. Other things are the working conditions of an elected agent, page 8. If I've been a member of a rural government, I've talked a lot about how important it is for me to feel that these work in the vicinity of the community, which are incredibly important, is well paid. That they give people the chance to get ready for a meeting and it's at least half a job in smaller rural areas so that people can be professional about things and have time to look for information, etc. We know this, most of them are doing that work along with others. It's totally incomprehensible to me, because it's in my district that Akureyritown doesn't have the full-time deputies as if it's a big community and an enormous amount of money. It's been called after the city of Akureyri will be the other city, and I think it's something to consider. I know that, for example. A representative of the left green sees it as his main job and does it with great affection, as most and probably everyone, but it doesn't change that there's a lot of pressure to do it with another job, and I don't talk about it when so many things are involved and big society. We've been discussing the need to examine and analyze, not just the working conditions of an elected representative as outlined here, but why it's always so reinvented, why women last less than men. There I feel that the Northern Parliament has taken a good example. They did just the part - time job, as I mentioned earlier, and found at a standard work schedule so that they don't have to run to, and get a pack and make sure that they can go to an afternoon meeting or a night meeting. I think it's really important if people are going to stay in the ministry, because then we know that they don't end when the meeting's over. When representatives go to the store, they tend to pick things up and keep talking, you know it in such a small community. I have strong opinions about this, and I think it is very important that an investigation or analysis be made as early as any of the reasons why those who have taken their seat for the past 10 to 15 years did not respond. Finally, a respectable president, it is an increase in public activity in the country. This is the high and large target of the government's list over the last few decades, to increase the diversity of commercial life across the country, and to improve the basis for equal opportunities of rural society irrespective of size and location to sustainable growth. Already, it is only a matter of time before, but recently it has been announced to the highest level. Seafood and agricultural ministers say he's moving his jobs to the country. But I've said so many times before: It's not just the Ministry but it's official institutions. It says that there should be an analysis that will be useful in molding an action programme for the growth of public activity in the country. Of course, a building agency has done many good analyses of this, and I believe that there is only a substantial amount of data on what should be used to us in that work. In my opinion, she shouldn't have to take long. This can be of utmost importance to the small and scattered regions of the country, where I will finish.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u94	Mr. President. It's my idea that there's a very ambitious proposal for evangelization to the future community planning. For a long time, we have discussed the unity of rural society and the future of the country's size and number of rural communities. Various ideas have been discussed and developed, and in my opinion, the proposal presented here is reasonable, as it is vital that a vision be developed in this important matter. I can agree with the 11 objectives of action planned for the year 20191⁄223 in the proposal: 1st Minimum number of rural partners. To improve the sustainable development of rural society and ensure their ability to perform legal tasks. 2. Economic support. Voluntary support of community unity. 3. Companies in rural areas. To strengthen them and increase their financial self - control. 4. Money, debt, that's what I'm talking about. To ensure sustainable development of rural society and the reduction in rural debt law for municipal A- and B-part accounts. - I'll come in a little later. 5. Government and rural development. To be developed an action plan for changing state-and-part activities. - It's a matter that's been discussed a lot among the locals in recent years. 6th A member of the Continental Society and its cooperation. To explain the role and position of the national community. - This has been called in for a very many years, so it should be welcomed into this operation program. 7. State and rural society. To take care of and respect the self - control of local members and their right to manage their affairs for their own responsibilities, such as assignments and finances. 8. The work conditions of an elected agent. To improve them and to take care of the gender equality of the local government. - It's just another matter that the rural communities have been discussing very much over the last few years and will be discussed with every Congress of the Union, if I recall correctly. 9. It's a democratic field. To improve public access to decision-making and policy-making in the countryside. 10. Digital management. To improve the public access to the services and administration of the municipal organisations, improve communication, and ensure a good flow of information. 11th The growth of public activity. To improve the diversity of commercial life across the country and to improve the basis for equal opportunities of rural society regardless of size and location of sustainable growth. This vision of the future I agree with, and I welcome it to the end of the long-term time to present the long-term perspective of society in the country. In my opinion, it is important for Iceland's rural communities to grow and thus become better equipped to provide citizens with better services than they do today. I am aware that size is not everything when it comes to service, but it cannot be avoided that in some cases it does. I've never heard any voices of anyone wanting to come back from that path, even though the matter was disputed at its time and viewpoints. Clearly, the projects that have been under attack in recent years at the Company of Skavegartir would have, for example. Impelled by the combined landscape, these projects have greatly improved the service and quality of life of the inhabitants of this area. On September 6, 2019, the U.S. The European Union Government has also given positive comments on the subject. It is clear, therefore, that the matter has a sound foundation among local authorities, even though there are, of course, differences of opinion, as a result of a big matter for the rural communities in the country. Earlier today, we discussed how a decision was made at the National Parliament on the approval of this resolution. I was in charge of a council, and I am kindly and obliged to inform you that it was done in the most democratic way possible. The case was addressed and discussed, and there were votes. I don't know how to make this decision in a democratic way. Of course, this means that there were some who were subject to and disagreed, but that is how democracy works, just as it was at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. Regarding the proposal for population and whether it should be 250 or 1000, or 8,000, as discussed here, the criteria for the case of the disabled, it is appropriate to point out that in the motion there are no such authority and, for example, the recommendation is non-sponsored. In that case, geographic and social factors need to be considered, as was the case with the population in the community of disabled people. So there's a range of resources, and there's a gap that is being opened to the view of the geographic and social aspects of the rural community. I welcome the change here that will be considered more carefully the proposal to reduce the share of the A-section to 100%. In recent years, many rural societies have undergone extensive economic operations in order to reach below 150% of credit. There has been a much cumulative need for construction within this community, and together there will be a potential need for further projects, so I don't think it would be wise to push the criteria down to 100% at this time, but we should only see where this is going to lead us. It's clear that if we're going to drive this down to 100%, many societies will have major problems with infrastructure. It has also been discussed about the debt ratio of smaller rural partners, that in many cases it is better than in the larger. In this context, it is all right to point out that in many cases the development of services has been done by larger neighboring communities who have had to owe themselves to live up to the demands of the community's service. I know it's not absolute, but it's like this in a number of cases, so it's important that when you talk about my country's debt ratio being better than their larger if that's behind their ear and you realize it's in a lot of cases. I would also like to make it clear that, on September 6, my decision was made that the funds intended to come to mutual support would be new funds and not taken from the financial contributions it has made today. This is a very big case, and I encourage people to look very carefully at the fact that they will be made this way but that money will not be taken from the community funds for this project. As to the progress, it is clear that there will be a change in the national parts of the community where a reduction in rural society will, in my opinion, call for review in part of the national community territory. It is in my opinion a great opportunity for even greater cooperation and conversation of the rural communities in the country and further encourages the better definition of national community activities. I'm not going to keep this for now, but I hope the proposal succeeds because I believe it will be a benefit to the people of our country.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u95	Mr. President. I'm going to begin by describing my joy with this proposal for the resolution of a policy-making scheme in rural affairs for the year 2019-2033 and a plan of action for the 2019◯2023. I think it's time to put in such a long-term plan for rural affairs and so much need. I also feel that the opening point in the resolution to try to make the rural communities more sustainable and strengthen them so that they can deal with issues more effectively and that they can be more important. I would like to present a specific paragraph on page 18. 2 of the proposal, with President's permission: There is always enough strength to cope with future challenges, such as increased differentiation, altered age composition, transport, technological changes, environmental and climate change, global health issues, etc. This is the reality that we live in, our communities are always becoming more complex and complex, and the demands of rural society are always becoming more complex. That is why it is so important to equip your rural society to meet these new challenges, and they must be strong enough to do so. Civil populations also call for more specialized services that smaller rural areas cannot provide on their own. In this regard, I would like to mention that I consider it a measure of human rights to live in a certain minimum service, but, unfortunately, the situation today is not the case. Many rural communities cannot carry out their duties, so we must act, and we must face this. I think people are discriminated against. They don't get the services they have depending on where they live. We have to face this and face it. I think this proposal is an attempt to do that, and I'm really happy about it. I would also like to pick up just the goals of No. 3 of the Action Programme, of the income populations. The recent trend has been to increase the duties of a member of the rural community to which they respond. I'd like to mention during the discussion that a very useful milestone report was conducted in 2017 on a review of the equation budget. I think that would be an excellent suggestion when we start examining the equation fund, and I am so glad that it should be strengthened. I think it's very necessary. In addition to the EU, rural society has been in a position to pick up new farms for rural society, which governments have not always been particularly willing to look to, but I hope that with this goal, they will be looked at in the next steps. This interpretation proposal is laid on the ground very well. There are many goals that I don't think have reached much flight during the discussion, but they are still enormously important, such as government and rural development, digital management, and the working conditions of elected representatives. This has not been discussed in the discussion but is extremely important. We're a little stuck in our first objective, which is the minimum population of rural society. For many, this is an emotional matter that is understandable. I myself live in the West, where all my rural communities alone need at some point to submit to some form of unity, the purpose of this clause is to be fulfilled. It's been a lot of heat around me, and when the proposal was first made, it was really fun to throw yourself into the hot tub in Bolungarvík, which I like very much because it's part of the service we use, pools, skiing areas, and social services. So I'm a good guy at the bottom of the discussion. One senator noted earlier that rural communities were communities. I don't agree with that. Society is one, and society is another. A community is a government organization, and communities are alone. I myself live in a united rural society called Isafjörður, but I am still the same Isendir. It hasn't changed, and I'm holding onto my own image as far as it goes. Still, we need to show respect for the feelings of my community, especially those who oppose this minimum population. They certainly are entitled to do so, but I always want to encourage those who disagree with these efforts to look at them more out of the ministry. How can rural society better care for its inhabitants? It's not about who you are, you can be the same Bolvik, even if you share a certain service with your neighbors. I think that would be an excellent exit point. I'm not saying that we'll all agree with this, but I think there might be certain results in the discussion. This is a very hot matter for many, and it is also a fear of change. We know what we have, but we do not know exactly what this will be like. We don't have enough experience with a unit. It worked, for example. I didn't have enough money in my community, and together, things went wrong. But I hope that we have learned from it, and, of course, one looks to the model that's east, that we can learn from it. I dare say, though, when I stand here in service to the people of Isafjörður, it has been greatly improved by a united community. That's what I'm saying. There are many things that we can learn from earlier bonds, but I have high hopes that if we have the basic goals completely clear, we will develop new paths. I also wonder if we should have gone further together. I don't think it's necessarily healthy, as someone mentioned today, to go through two units. We're just supposed to set the goal straight away. I'm not going to say anything about 1,000 being the right number, but I think we can go a little higher, as we've just mentioned. I was in the first assembly in the fall when this discussion was under discussion, and then I felt that I had an interesting point on the committee. There were rural authorities who were concerned that if they were free unity -- they would need to be united, but it didn't matter which rural community was united - the strongest rural communities could just gather themselves together, e.g. There's a herd of whales, and there's the River Valley Storms, the companies that have activated, and the Akraheppets. The less money - strong rural areas could get out of the way. I wonder, " Should I go further and determine what unity will be like? ' This was done in 2007 in Greenland. Greenland was divided into four societies. I was there on a trip some time later, and I found this very interesting with the local democracy and all the talk that was then relatively new in the discussion here. I met a member of the Cisimiut countryside who is on the west coast of Greenland and asked if it had been a general pleasure because they had nothing to say about what it would be like. The people were not allowed to vote for the ideas, but he told me that the people had been very happy about this and that they were just glad they didn't have to be with Eastern Europe. Their idea of civilian democracy may be different from what I had in mind. I don't suppose I'll be here when the vote takes place, but I'd like to finally encourage the senators to agree with this council agreement when it comes to this, because I think it's a big progress for the rural population and their inhabitants. They need a clearer and stronger frame, and they need to be more powerful in coping with their future challenges.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u96	Mr. President. Thank you. Lára Arna Jónsdóttir for a very nice talk. She mentioned in her speech that she was not the same Isengard that she had been years ago, and neither am I. But even though I may be on the ground right now, I'm still a little bit of an ice picker and hopefully get to stay that way. But that was not what I'm going to talk to the senator. It was what she came into her speech, how people of different rural groups are actually taking advantage of the services of the surrounding community, which are naturally very common. To form the Ísafjörðurs who go swimming in Bolungarvík and expect to attend the Bolvík service into Isafjörður, and of course it's just fine. I know at least Many of the U.S. citizens have thought that there is a need for three rural communities on the north side of the West. Then again, there's another matter. I can agree with the senator that maybe we should take a bigger step in this cycle and not offer the possibility of photographing, as the senator suggested, that men would join the next group, but something in a whole other place that I don't think is good. What I wanted to ask the senator about last year's answer is if she can predict some particular size of a country society. Her associate, huh? paritaprevir Sigurðsson's estate, and I had a talk about this earlier and I'd love to hear the senator's viewpoint, whether she has any dream number in this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u97	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I don't have a dream number, and I think there are a number of factors that need to be considered when it comes to a good size for rural society. There are geographic factors, social and etc. It may also be a cultural tradition for the cooperation of rural society that needs to be looked into, and it can be geographic conditions such as mountains and years, etc. I also think we need to take the step a little bit. It's going to be a lot of trouble for many of these unifications, hard to deal with. That's why I think it's a little like a Band-Aid. We just need to take it off quickly. Then we can work on it. I think it'll be very difficult for a lot of people. But as I said earlier, social issues, geographic issues and then perhaps certain cultural factors may have to be viewed in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u98	Mr. President. There's something else. A senator entered his talk earlier, and that was how they continued to be the Housekeepers, even though they entered a bigger community. I think it's very important, and I think maybe one of the clearest examples of this is on the north side of the West, where half of which we say, an Isencian defines itself either as Blavour or a Plainfly. As everybody knows, there is no longer any foundation in these wrinkles, but in spite of that, these two teams are divided into a little bit. But that's not what I was going to ask. The other thing is, she mentioned work conditions, what the renewal is in the countryside, I think it was probably a problem. A senator who was only involved in this, and whether she explained why figures tell us that the local governments tend to be less of a woman's religion than men. Does the senator, on the other hand, have any explanation for this and much more solution? I mean, there's a problem in rural management, it's like a woman's running out of local government for some reason. Senators have given us reasons for such factors as employment and working hours, etc. We're gonna have to sort this out, and I'm sure we're gonna do it right. I agree with a senator. I want to know if she has solutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u99	Mr. President. I thank you for this good inquiry, to record this, because it's a tremendously important question why women remain less in politics in general. That also applies to local authorities. I'm totally isolated, I think, at least, around me, I'm in thirteen years, if I recall a proper government. It is not common for young women to remain that long. The problem is that rural witnessing is not a full-time job in the country. It's like a former senator named Kristján Möller, who just happens to be a very expensive hockey official. People are working full - time for now and then taking over the local government. When people are with their families and homes, it is stressful to do so. Sadly, the work of the home is still a bit much and more of a woman's work. It's just research that's shown it. It only makes it difficult for them to fulfill this vital role in which they are so necessary. One could be that rural communities define being a local government officer as a fixed work rate so that people can just get paid more. This may be a factor in uniting the communities so that they become more extensive and can make more of the work. I would think that there might be a major factor in improving this situation and getting women involved, and it also takes a natural raise. I don't think anybody in the country will dare say this properly to the population, but the pay is far too low. You need to have an enormous interest and enthusiasm in this for a very long time. But not everyone can do that. If people are working hard at shift work, it is very difficult to get free of hospitals to run into one town council meeting, that may be difficult. That's where I think it's part of the problem too.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u100	A respectable president. I come up here to express support for the minority opinions of the Environment and Transport Committee on this matter, which was called on. Councilmen Karl Gauti Hjaltason and Bergþór Ólason. Now I have to admit, I haven't exactly asked yet. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson, of Piranha, would he have signed if he was a member of the committee? As an officer of the hearing, he is unable to give a commission from that committee as the sole committee of the council, since Piratar cannot give credit to members of the committee. This opinion means that 1st in II. In 2022 and 1,000 of the general government elections in 2026, a section of the Parliament concluded that the minimum number of rural partners will be 250 from the general government election. This is the legal debate that has only been going on here today. I have no opinion whether this one or the other community should be united or above should exist. I also have no opinion whether this or the other community should have a minimum population, even though I would normally like to live in a large rural community. I'd probably vote together if I lived in a very small rural society, but it depends on a few things. To tell you the truth, I don't know, a respectable president, but I know that I believe in my own decision rights and hence my own private rights. I believe that the constitution of the Constitution on the independence of rural society should mean that the Allied Council does not have the authority to legalize something like a minimum population of rural society, thus forcing unity or something like that. It is not new in Icelandic politics that people disagree about accurate law interpretation, and it is often put here in a Senate hall as if we are in court trying to find out who is really the correct interpretation of the law from the condemnations of the Supreme Court or something like that. It is important to me that the Constitution imposes a real limit on the authority that the General Assembly has and the authority that the government has against its citizens and against the general institutions of power. I believe this very much, but I find the Icelandic constitution in general, perhaps just Icelandic law, do not assume that such limits are respected entirely to the point where they are of discomfort. It is the very purpose of the government's limitation that it causes discomfort when authorities want to do something wrong with the wishes of its citizens. That's the whole point. It could be said that the first role of the Constitution is to establish and limit the authority of the government, forbidding them to control certain things. Here, in itself, is not a legal matter but a political thing. Do we, or do we not want rural governments to be independent that their communities themselves control what they think is the ideal minimum population? I think it's power to be with the locals or with their citizens. I believe it politically. If I read a valid constitution and a suggestion that means legalizing a unit or a minimum number of people, I don't see how it would resist a constitution. That's my understanding of the law. Someone may disagree with me, and that's just the way it is, but from that point on, it's political. I can't believe the government should have that right. I don't believe that authority should have that kind of authority. I believe there is too much power in the hands of the Generals over the communities. There is no doubt about how nations view unity within their borders. For example, the United States state is a whole different government phenomenon than any local community, and much less a phenomenon. The people may look more similar to the so - called countries of Germany. In the foundation, everything I believe in as far as government is concerned is concerned is that power should come from below and go upward, but not vice versa. The kingdom is thought to be a god, an almighty power of some kind, and it is given in more detail that I remember chapter 13 of the Christian Greek Scriptures. Guð decides that someone is king through battle or destiny or whatever, and that is the king who controls it. In some lands, the king has kindly or powered the peoples to vote for a council of some kind, causing them to go down to the people, from gods to the king and down. Iceland's legacy is natural after all because our constitution is the heritage of the Constitution we received from the Kingdom of Denmark. The other way is to think about it, as it is done in the United States, with the awareness that it is very far from being a perfect system. That system is very flawed in important things in my opinion, but the ideal is that it starts at the bottom and up. There's no power up there except what's approved by those who gave the power, i.e. People themselves. We're supposed to use our societies to make them independent, as independent as if they're above their heads. I think they should have much more power over their own business. I have to admit that I'm rather open to ideas like them that rural society or other republics could set things that we generally choose by law. It's, for example. different ages of alcohol from the states in Canada and the United States There's nothing super comfortable for everyone, but that's the way it is, and that makes sense to me. I think it's wise to have power spread to smaller units and there's more in the hands of the people living in each area, in their supply. I think it's a very wise thing to do with democracies. The independence of a community cannot be discussed without merely discussing a new constitution. In the current constitution, there are two sentences in which rural communities are referred. I can read them as a whole in a short time, with president's permission: (b) What will be considered in the next article? Society's stocks will be determined by law, as well as by their right to decide whether and how to use them. No further comment is made on rural areas in the current republical constitution. It's interesting how the word is spoken, I can't describe it as different from an English, respectable president. It is so that rural communities themselves will control their affairs according to law. But it is typical that as long as the law is passed, rural society is not employed at all, it is only a council that controls by making laws. I believe that this is a legal interpretation, even if it goes up that I'm not convinced, very unfortunate for the law. I simply don't feel that self - sufficiency involves the independence of a rural society that is bound to these conditions, and I wonder what it is that makes such a provision, if not just securing independence beyond what the Council can choose. The bill on a new constitution contains an entire section on rural society, specifically four regulations, and the latest publication based on the Committee's Commission and Observation Committee from 2013 to 107,◯110. par. I'm not going to read all the articles, but I think it's a good idea to mention them anyway. At 107th. discusses the independence of your community and from 108st. ... abouta closewatch, in 109. About the election of government and civil democracy and the 110th par. on the duty of consultation. In other words, the independence of the local community is put in place in the bill for a new constitution far more priority than in the present. The new constitution is a source of freedom. She's a democratian. It's a autonomic and independent aid to rural society. I'd also like to mention that in 107th Gr. The bill to the new constitution is a law that corresponds to a law in 78 grams. in the current constitution. The terms are similar to those of today, yet there is a surrogacy. At 107th. says, with permission of the president: ◯Environment and income should be sufficient to carry out legal tasks. There would now be a revolution in dealing with the government and the local community if it were a constitution that the rural communities had enough power and income to carry out legal tasks. Surely, all of us know of the legitimate complaints of the local community that there is a responsibility for them, some task they should perform, and so do not support the funds. There's always a complaint about this, and I don't think it's so good. I don't think that's the way it should be. To the 110th. for consultation is indicated, with the permission of the president: 'In preparation of a law directly relevant to the affairs of the rural society, we shall consult with local governments and their organization. Now, in this matter of Congress, it is certainly a consultation with local governments and their organizations, but I think it is reasonable to believe that it is a constitution because if the Council intended to make decisions against the authority that comes from the rural community, it would be my understanding that, at any rate, such decisions would not be in force if these decisions were not addressed. That's how I feel the constitution should work. She's supposed to set real boundaries. It is not merely to include a general view or a request for the government's affection for the rights of the community but to frame it in so that the General Assembly is restricted to what it can do to the local community. To determine the existence of a member or a minimum of its population, I feel completely at the custody of my own rural society. That's how I read the spirit at least in a valid constitution, and myself would interpret the lyrics of the law, but from all politics I think it is also a self-condent attitude, as is clearly evident in the middle party's ideal minority party, or whatever. Karl Gauti Hjaltason and Ólason. This attitude is not merely the personal attitude of what is being presented here; it is reflected in Pirata's basic policy. The basic policy is probably one of the few people who've never changed in the Pirates and we're putting her out a lot. In that direction, it is addressed directly to democracy and self - determination, and I would like to read it, with the permission of the president: ▪ The Patriots believe that everyone has the right to make decisions on matters that concern them. Court is guaranteed by the strength of the bones of democracy and the growth of transparent administration. Pirates believe that there is a need to reduce media control in all areas and to directly promote democracy in the models offered. There are many things in Icelandic politics that can be drawn out by looking to this basic policy. We also have a policy on the administrative board at the county level, which I'm going to briefly explain, although I'm not going to read it word for word. It discusses democratic growth. Some of it we've already submitted in the form of a prime projection, i.e. to improve the ability of the inhabitants of a community to call for a local vote on certain matters. Today it is defined by law that 20% of the population can request a local vote on a certain matter, but it is stated in the law that it may be 20% or more, which is strange and we have suggested there are 20% or otherwise, so that rural communities can reduce that percentage and have it 5% or 10% or anything that seems appropriate. No doubt the percentage depends on the size of a community. It also discusses that rural governments should be able to vote for the head of a local community live election, those who have often been called mayors or mayors or anything. Web systems and a number of technical issues are also covered, but above all, there is a need to promote participants and legislators at the rural level. For a discussion of translucency and that the expenses of rural society are public and accessible on the web, and most important, the development of rural law will be changed to ensure the right of citizens to temporarily postpone the controversial administrative decisions of rural society and refer to them in the binding of local elections. All of this is about increasing the self - determination right of the local community, and it is the attitude we feel to have as a guide and not merely that we say we respect it, as if having respect for someone is not merely a matter of fantasizing or not using abusive language. Respect includes e.g. In listening to people when they speak, do not interrupt them, do not rush them in a row, and like them. Such respect is shown in action. It's not enough just to say, "I have a lot of respect for you," you know. this or that - and then treat the person with disrespect, especially with regard to self - determination. Again, we think so. 11th. Smoke. So, and according to my sense of why. Councilmen Karl Hjaltason Einar and Bergþór Ólason, at least here are very close to the Constitutionary self-sponsored firms and to warn what they should be. So I suggest, in line with a fine minority opinion, that this matter, which is good in many other respects, will be accepted by the change that 1st point II. ... letsout.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u101	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. I want to go a little past the beginning, what he started at and most people have started at, i.e. legislation or not law-enforcement. He also concluded his speech by saying that it would end. When we talk about sustainable rural society - because the senator got the word that rural society should be able to control itself a little, which they really do - I'd like to reflect on the concept of self-sustaining and how he feels about it and how he feels that rural society is self-sustained to be able to do the work they ought to do. I'd also like to reflect on it with the senator, because I've had doubts about legalization: Is it in his opinion the need to have minimum size of rural society? Are we still there that it is okay to have 50 people, or how it is? As their communities call for greater responsibility for projects, they do, we need to be sure that they can do so in order not to produce a political balance. In fact, balance in power can develop in huge unity, but it can also result when some rural society is left entirely behind because they offer limited service because they are out of range because of their small size and perhaps many other factors. Is the senator's minimum size needed?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u102	A respectable president. I think I'd agree that I'm probably desirable to have some minimum size. No doubt there is some minimal size, so if a community is smaller than that, there are many problems. But to me, it is absolutely fundamental that it is, however, the natural right of the community that controls the way it is going to go. Freedom involves a measure of mismanagement. In fact, democracy, if it does, may be in a very large context. It's just gonna be something to have. Now I live in Reykjavík, which is a very large rural society, so that no more is said and my personal position as a citizen is that I want to live in as the largest rural society. I want to live where there are as many people as possible. If I lived in a very small rural society, I just don't know what I would feel about it because I needed to know the circumstances of that community. I have little experience in living in such rural communities, in fact, only in my teens, and really can't answer it. A senator how I look at it in terms of self-sustaining without studying the issues of a particular community. However, for sustainability in general, I am able to answer that it has been very prominent that largely the government itself, as well as the financial authority, is responsible for my opinion that sustainable development is lacking here and between rural society because the rural communities are given an assignment and they are required to perform certain tasks without financial support. Now it's reacted in this suggestion that I like very much, because in every way I've studied it, I have to admit that I haven't read it completely through, except that I don't fully support Team I II. section. The fundamental thing to me is always freedom, self-determination and democracy. If it takes an unoppressive or unfortunate side to its consequences, it is often only to be kept at times. There are limits. I would need to have studied certain societies and their position within the present arrangement in order to give an answer. Senator. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But I also trusted those rural communities to make the right choices in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u103	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. You see, it's turned and it's been done. Hv. paritaprevir Brjánsson's father gave a fine talk in his earlier discussion, as he went through the story, and there's always been a conflict about this point. Many of us have been able to change, but we have always had a conflict with this point: Who has the minimum size of rural society to be, should be submitted by law or not? I got it. I got it. A senator to read a talk of some nature. Senator, she was just so fun and informative about these things. When we're talking about the other level of government, which is so important, I don't think we should just look at one point in it. Hv. A senator says that he supports the proposal in another way. He mentioned the Constitution, and I'd like to ask him about the income of a country partner, because it's one of the things the senator eventually mentioned in his opponent, i.e. criticism, which has been observed that there has been no follow-up for the activities covered in rural society, etc. In my opinion, we also need to start thinking something outside the box. It has often been said that the ministry is better in the local community and on the basis of which an assignment should be given to the rural community. I can agree with that in many ways. But if we're looking at this in general, we've also been arguing over the very long time which other income farms could use to further strengthen their position in the various projects they are dealing with, and not just the ones the state is moving over, but only those that today requires of their own community, that they have a certain service. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator: Has he thought about what income they would be if we could move to a farm partner or they could make up for themselves?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u104	A respectable president. There's one part that's been named here several times and that if I get it correctly, I'm following the motion that a stay-up fee goes to the locals. It is also practical that this is in accordance with Pirata's policy which accurately states that it does so. I'm no special expert on farm income, I have to say, but it tells itself that when rural society makes agreements or agreements with the State to perform some service of the state, it's up to the state to finance what it has said is going to do and to respect it. If a project continues, say a project that is in the experiment for a certain period of time, then the government must finance it instead of blaming the communities for the lack of money. Give an example of this. Today, Reykjavík is blamed for its lack of government support. That's where we figure out when the test project is over. That's where I feel the State has to do better. With regard to self - determination, self-sustaining and minimum population, I make a big difference between what I think I am personally and who to make the decision. Suppose I agree that 1,000 or even 2,000 people are the most suitable minimum, and my opinion is sincerely that it has a lot of problems and it's very difficult if your community is below that size. It doesn't change it, and it doesn't automatically make me trust my own locals to make these decisions. That's how I'm made to be part of a big community. If I lived in a community of 500 people, I'd probably like to be reunited because I like people, I like people more, personally, that's how I'm made. But most of all, I would trust rural society to make that decision on my own. This is similar, since many times when we talk about the land itself, we are unable to distinguish between the right decision and whether the country or its communities can make that decision themselves. These are different questions. [[The president calls.]] I say, people in general can make a decision for themselves. Farmers can generally make decisions for themselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u105	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to stretch my tail much in this case. There has been a considerable and excellent discussion on this council resolution of a policy-making scheme in the rural affairs of 2019 and 202033. I'm only going to make up what is presented in the Committee to help my parts of the environment and transport committees why. Karl Gauti Hjaltason and Ólason. Of course, I agree wholeheartedly with what it says. A similar point was made in the speech of the last senator, w. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunns' Gunnarsson, a minority of whom agree entirely with this eulogy proposal, except for the self - determination rights of rural society. I'd like to quote two sentences from the hearing, by permission of the president: The second section points out that a community self - determination right is tied to a constitution, such as the 78th par. it says that rural communities themselves control their affairs according to law. The minority, however, believes that the State can bring together rural society by agreeing with them being motivated to help for such unity. It's crystal clear to me. I've personally been a member of a rural government, participated in discussions about the union of rural society, and I agree that rural society can unite below the sign of adding to the sustainable development of the rural community. The level of change in the terms of the synopsis varies, yet it is evident in the synopsis that since 1992 the number of rural communities was 197. About 2000, there were 124, then 101 in 2004, and then 72 societies have declined. All of this is done by the prehumanization that rural society will make its own decision to unite after many years of work. That's what we in my category and others want to think they're totally respected. I know that we, all members of the Central Party, have come to believe that our community's own decision rights are respected in this work. Even if there are more members of the countryside than there are fewer, it is not always possible to say that rural society is better fired. Of course it's more likely. We can take an example of one wrinkle in my district called Aarnesepepept on the beach. He's very small, but he's big, and I know people in that crash are concerned that if they were forced to join some other rural community, they'd be longer in the service that is now in the countryside. They feel that there would be little chance that this would improve their service to the countryside so that it would not be suitable for them to unite under these signs. They have to feel something for themselves to do so, and that is why they also do so. conducted in the context of the memory section that, in agreement with them, they are motivated to promote such unity. It also came to the meetings I went to for a district week ago. In the fall of my district, the Norwegian-West District, the local community that these few talk about the addition of the European Union's United States Congress, which was held on September 6 would have been small, that it had not been represented by many rural communities, that they had not felt justified in accepting this vote. They had a problem with this, and it is natural that they would not do it the right way. I'm not going to extend the discussion more, but I'm just making our opinion in the middle of the class is that this council-sense proposal is an excellent proposal, provided that it is Part I II. will fall away, as the option is set in place that rural society should be larger. I'm going to read the text in the synonym that we'd like to cancel, with the permission of the president: The population of rural society. Project objective: to improve the sustainable development of rural society and ensure their ability to perform legal tasks. The minimum population will be 250 from general government elections in 2022, and 1,000 from general government elections in 2026. This is what we want, and we'd probably be quite content with this adjustment. That's why I'm saying I'm not going to have any more words on this matter for the time being.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u106	A respectable president. I'll be in a second talk in this second verse. for a proposal to be agreed on a policy-making strategy for the management of rural society for 2019-2023 and a plan of action for the 2019-2023. This has been a fine debate today regarding this resolution, a landmark proposal in that it is the first time to contribute for the future and the primary objective of community affairs in good cooperation between state and rural society. The design and vision are then accompanied by an 11 cooperative plan. I'm just gonna put these jobs back on. The first action is the minimum population count of rural partners. As we have seen, there are some differences in viewpoints, but the other ten projects seem to be generally acceptable, although some points have been made regarding some of the people who need attention. The second action is financial support for unity, which aims to increase the support of rural partners with the support of an equation fund. It has shown the importance of bringing in additional government funds, not to be put to the use of the current financial resources. Therefore, it is very important that the next article will be followed properly by the Generals. A third step is to strengthen the farm society. The fourth action is the opinion of the country's debt line for the country's funds for the future. The majority of the committees point out that it is good to consider carefully before changing the balance of the current law. The fifth action includes the development of a change in practices between state and rural society. The sixth action aims to explain the status and role of a long - term national entity and will, of course, change if the rural population decreases. Then the role will inevitably change. The seventh action involves better communication between the state and the community and to ensure respect for the self - control of local society and their right to control the affairs they are responsible for. The eighth operation is for the working conditions of an elected agent. A number of people have come up with the importance of following the better conditions of elected agents, including those listed above. to protect the sex equal rights of the rural government and to ensure more convergence among the local authorities. The ninth action aims to improve public access to decision-making and policy-making at the state of the countryside, to work on experimental projects in several rural communities to test different ways of civil democracy. A tenth operation is for better and more digital rural administration. The 11th action involves the growth of public activity in the country. All these actions have been implemented in some way here. Regarding the operation on the minimum number of rural partners, I would like to sum up the discussion. This is by no means the first time a country's minimum share would be set. For a time in the last century, 50 people lived under the minimum number, and in the Commonwealth century, the standard was about 400 people, so we are not for the first time in these regions. Some time has been spent in interpreting the terms of the Constitution regarding the independence of the communities. True, this law has never been tested, but the synopsis is accompanied by the careful interpretation of the scholars of the law of the law, and I am convinced that the proposal is in harmony with the law. Finally, I would like to consider just what will take place if the proposal is accepted with all the action it involves. Then, of course, the next step is that the cooperation between partners and the Kingdom begins with the individual projects. Then the Senate bill has to be submitted by preliminary rules on the minimum market and should be explained which process will take place if rural society has not taken the cohesion steps in local elections and is under the minimum post-election rate. The light there needs to be a solution to cooperation and cooperation between the existing rural organisations and the Department of Transport and the Ministry of Transport. This is what the Commission considers to be a greater part of the environment and transport committee is focusing heavily on, including as some have entered here, that they will be taken into account geographic and social conditions with all work with cohesion. Or you will need to undergo legal adjustments, which may compromise in the administration, the use of telecommunications, and the use of scattered administrations. As the County Government Act is currently limited to the efficiency of technology and it is very important to take away the barriers so that there will be a new creation that comes together and will review procedures in the administrative sector, as well as to ensure that jobs can be distributed. I thank all those who have spoken here today about this suggestion, and I suggest as before that it will be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u107	Mr. President. I recommend a committee party with a motion-changing proposal for interpretation of the establishment of the state's technical director. The Commission has discussed the situation and has received its meeting with Sigurður H. Helgason and Einar Birki Einar Birkir Einarsson and the Ministry of Economics and Njörður Sigurðsson from the National Archives of Iceland. The committee received a review of the case from the National Archives of Iceland. The proposal is to establish the office of the government technical director who supervises the technical infrastructure of the Board of Directors. In the treatment of the matter, the importance of harmony with the State's technology system, increased self-exploitation in the electronic services of the State, and the use of technical infrastructure where appropriate. Also noted was the need to preserve electronic data immediately in the design of electronic data systems and to adapt the development of electronic data systems to the state. Furthermore, it would have to be ensured that the preservation of these data would be in accordance with the official archives law, No. 77/2014. The majority points out that at the beginning of 2018, a project group was formed in the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, which is bound to the terms 'Environment' for the digital Iceland. The main focus of the Topic Centre is to increase and improve the digital public services in Iceland.is, to build up and strengthen the foundation of information technology, and to improve the interaction of institutions in the field of information technology. In addition, earlier this year the government approved a digital expansion programme, which included: proposal that data collections will be strengthened and opened to the public and to the scientific community. It also shows the need for adjustment in the legal capacity to support the use and spread of digital public service. The more part of it feels that a great deal of the need for technical work in public electronic services and that the development of digital services will provide increased financial management. In view of the greater part, the aims of the proposal fall to the above government work, but it is necessary that this work be further extended. The majority stress the importance of developing technical infrastructures according to their importance and thinking that a special office or agency could be a means to that end. However, the greater part estimates that it is proper for a ministerial servant to determine if there is any basis for forming a special office that supervises the technical infrastructure of the Board of Directors and if the work requires adjustment of the law. The majority suggest a change in wording of a proposal and a headline in this regard. Finally, the more part of it is that such work will ensure that harmonisation of the state's electronic data systems as well as the preservation of electronic data will be in accordance with the code on public archives. Taking into account the above, the greater part suggests that the Councilhood proposal will be accepted by a change I think will pay to read because this actually changes the whole motion. The motion is said, by permission of the President: ▪ The General concludes to hide financial and economic practices and quality management of software, public information and maintenance and delivery of electronic data to Iceland's National Archives, information security, and other things involved in ensuring the electronic quality of public service. The secretary introduces the results of that work and also provides needed legal adjustments, if appropriate, at the 151th legislature. Then the headline of the proposal changes to: Suggestion to the synopsis of the technical structures of the Council and the electronic services of the government. Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson was absent from the case, but signed according to authority in the Council of Staff. Under the writings of President Óli Björn Kárason, a Smári man of Mccarthy background, Þorsteinn Víglundsson, Borttis Haraldsdóttir and Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson. I just want to say from myself that this matter of homelessness, both within the council and in the management system, became very clear in the treatment of the Commission. The fact that a committee that usually handles economic, business, banking, and so forth is dealing with databases and electronic administrations is a little strange. Although this is certainly the best place for this work, it is evidence that we have somehow lost sight of the purpose of building databases, tissues, and electronic administrations in the first place. That it was not obvious who should be talking to in the management system was also a bit obvious. Of course, it's a project management of digital Iceland, which works very well and much cool comes from it, but it's actually just a small group of people working within the Ministry of finance, and has today, as mentioned in the Committee, not the legal rights and opportunities needed to coordinate the work of the entire state of state on an incredible amount of data. We heard that even more than 1,500 databases were expelled from various government institutions, which are really no clear surveillance of being handed over to the National Archives, that they meet the latest security requirements, etc. I'm glad that the committee handled this situation so well and that people understood the importance of it. The time has passed, in Iceland, we somehow led this electronic government. We've fallen behind a lot. I think that in the early part of this century, it happened that we thought we were in such a good position that we stopped stressing it. Now it's time to pay a certain debt, and I hope that this will be approved as soon as possible and that work will start out as soon as possible as possible in preparing a proper legal basis for the work that needs to be done. Of course, this is not just for other computer operators to get work in the Management Board. I don't even know if it would be desirable. I don't even know if this would be to improve the effectiveness of the government, to reduce the cost and quality of the city. It is a goal that we can achieve if we take this class seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u108	A respectable president. I want to speak for a moment about the words of a messenger. A financial committee recently received a presentation on the work Digital Iceland, which showed that the benefits of spelling in public service could be up to 30 billion dollars. every year. Only the benefits of digital services and tissue then transferred to Iceland would be 9.35 billion, not 9.3 or 9.4, but 9.35. That was a very good plan. There's an enormous amount of work to do, and this would, for example, happen. easy to pay for a personal discount that was discussed here earlier today.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u109	Mr. President. I hereby recommend the Commission of General and Education Committee as well as a new proposal. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by a representative from the Prison Department, the Red Cross, the University of the South Railroad, the Trustee, a partner of prisoners in Iceland and Protector, a prison aid. The committee got reviews from the same sources. Furthermore, representatives of the Justice Department met with the Committee. The issues of prisoners, medical equipment, education opportunity, and building up during the full punishment and adjustment of the community after ruling are important issues that are constantly needed for revision and improvement. The reviews received by the Committee were all positive about the purpose of the proposal, and they welcomed a discussion of the subject but made the same point. It came, for example. very clear that high priority was given to suggest that proposals made in the initiative would be expensive and that funding would be accompanied by the work proposed to be done, especially if any proposal was made to ensure that all subjects of the individual programme should be assured. The committee found that a number of activities have been done in this area, as the committee further explains. But, in the opinion of the Commission, much more is needed. It is important to have a vision of the entire group so that a collective course will be followed by a sentence to social adaptation after the end of the sentence. Thus, the prison system should not be based on criminal policy but on treatment and rehabilitation policies that take into account the composition and need of those who have to serve penalties, but most of them have severe addiction and social problems. For the Committee it came to the conclusion that the concept of reform policy did not achieve enough of the proposal's intention and would, therefore, better refer to treatment and rehabilitation policies. The Commission agrees with these views and suggests that reviews of treatment and rehabilitation policies will be discussed. During the discussion, there was much discussion on the subject of an individualised treatment schedule. A requirement for preparing a treatment and saving regimen for each prisoner was taken away by the current legislation on the full penalties required by the legislation that a treatment plan should be made if considered necessary by the specialists of the Prison Institute. In the treatment of the case, treatment and saving programmes for all prisoners were discontinued due to lack of funding, but there was also a view that it is very important for all, although the need may vary. The Committee suggests that there is a reason to consider whether there is any basis for binding the introduction and services assessment to law as well as an individual treatment schedule. The education of prisoners was discussed. They even gave it to the committee. to meet the headmaster of Southland's High School, but school is exactly a prisoner's service. The Committee's review emphasized that education is a subject that concerned the whole community and everyone who lived there, including those who stayed in prisons. A major part of rehabilitation is education, whether it is literature, schooling, or study. According to one authority, there is a much better way to promote study in prisons by increasing the variety, especially in engineering, improving the level of teaching, and creating a variety of textbooks, using more methods that are suitable for the more experienced prisons. The committee agrees with these viewpoints and emphasizes the search for ways to offer guidance as well as courses that may be needed to provide the resources and rights that will be used to them after abduct. At the same time, it is important to consider whether more study can be offered to prisoners, but the number of prison students is in very different places when you look for study and study facilities. The motion made that it is important to have a high level of support for prisoners when they complete their sentence. The committee agrees with that viewpoint and suggests that the work force considered some factors specifically, first of all, whether there is a basis for making room for the completion of social services and the use of the resources to a greater extent and second, to consider the obstacles that individuals face when they are in prison but despite the offer of assistance, including those that may be available. at the Red Cross and Protector, there is a chance that prisoners may come to their door, especially in the case of work and housing. Finally, the committee points to the importance of the decision-making and social adaptation of most experienced members of the work group to the level of those involved in the issue on the part of public members. The committee makes it clear that the overall work group looks at the group of litigation, reviews the careers of abduction, and how a person is followed again into society. In view of the wide scope of the work group being carried out, the committee proposes a continuation of the proposal to January 1, 2021. Then the committee proposes that the proposal be accepted, but it makes adjustments in harmony with the above suggestions. The motion reads, by permission of the President: The General concluded to hide the Minister of Justice in collaboration with Social Affairs and Child Affairs, Education and Culture Ministers and Health Ministers to set up a staff for the development of a complete treatment and rehabilitation policy in the prison system. The Outfits include: to ensure that the necessary changes in the law and the need for financial support are made to ensure all resources of the individual programme, improved access to education and health services, and increased support following the completion of the sentence. The population submitted a report with results no later than January 1, 2021. Minister of Justice introduces the results of the group of staff at the General Assembly.• Then a suggestion is made to change the headline according to the above. The headline of the proposal is as follows: a proposal for a synopsis of the prisoner's treatment and rehabilitation policy. Under these words all the members of the committee, Helgi Hrafn, Jón Steindór Valdimarsson, Árnadóttir Kolbrönnadótttir, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Birgir Gunnarsson of Aarn, Helga Vala Velgaa Helgadóttir, Steinunn Örnar, Aarna Þóra of the Árnadóttir, and Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson. Páll Magnússon and Ármannsson signed in advance. I suggest, of course, that these proposals get a quick and good supply here at the councilroom.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u110	A respectable president. It's a very simple but enormous motion when everything comes from a environmental point of view, and it says: ▪ The General concludes to hide the marine outlet and agricultural minister's status on carnivore and plan the implementation of a technology for Icelandic agriculture to speed up the competitiveness of carnivore with products of traditional fishing or food production of animals. A summary of the status of carnivores is available no later than March 1, 2020 - it will likely be a delay, but the committee will address it - ▪ and Ministers will propose a proposal for a hearing of government policy on carnivore rather than November 1, 2020. I'd guess it might be postponed next year to the current position, but sooner the better, because it's a huge deal on a climate and environmental scale. As shown in the report, carnivores produce 789966% less greenhouse gases than traditional animal culture and uses 99% less land space and 82996% less water. Only bird culture uses less energy, since birds are usually kept in giant pieces with no light. Otherwise, the value of carnivores between species and conventional animal species will be lower than the amount of energy required. Another factor that would be greatly improved by going to carnivore instead of making plants in animals would be antibiotic resistance, often at its source, to use antibacterials in agriculture. It would be extremely important on a global scale if we reached the goal of simply eliminating the production of industrial production of animals for food. This proposal has been introduced previously at 146., 147., 148., 149.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-01-28-53.u111	A respectable president. I don't know if it's possible to make a firm statement that we rarely hum in this chair of love, but we rarely do. In fact, adultery is a measure of our love law, although there is not much talk about the love or feelings of a married couple over their heads. This may be unfortunate, and you may want to do more in your marriage. Sometimes love breaks down. Every third marriage ends in divorce, and marriage is discussed in the present bill. According to marriage law, the principle is that if a person wants to divorce, he first applies for separation to the table and to the bed, and then six months later he can apply for the final divorce. I have to admit, I've never really understood. Whether we call it custodyism or just the interference of the State, it is strange that adults are not trusted to judge for themselves when they want to stop being married. On a narrow scale, this six - month waiting period can be jumped over and directly broken. They are restricted to cases involving adultery and marital or family violence. To test that law, there must be proof of such a violation, either in the form of confession or in the form of sound evidence. What you would first think of as being narrowly exclusive is a long period of time far from being the exception. In response to a petition I proposed to the 148th legislation, it is stated that over the years, the percentage of recorded law divorces after direct divorce, which said without first being separated from the table and the covers, was a total of 55%, so confession or other solid evidence is available for some kind of fracture in more cases. What this bill is all about, a bill to correct a change in marriage law (unprebated divorce), is being added to a new article as follows: Since they agree to seek divorce, couples should be granted permission for such a divorce without the exception of the table and bed the wishes of that material from both of them. This means that if people agree to stop being married, they will be granted permission. As a precautionary measure, the couple have neither shared possessions nor children under 18 years of age nor have agreed on presuppositions, alimony, and other divorce terms. This will help the committee to determine if this is unnecessary safety. It may simply be enough that people agree to request legal divorce, and that is the same option for all, but they need to be replaced by property and custody, a home, and a arrangement, just as people do today when they are allowed to divorce the table and the bed. With this, people would not have to confess a fraction or, which I find even more boring and have heard a few examples from the fact that the first time this case came up, confessing sins that have not been committed to escape the six months that some merely consider to be a pardon for the divorce that will inevitably occur because when love breaks out, there is no need for people to stay in marriage when they want to understand. This applies not only to people who grow apart in love but also to people in situations where circumstances just change, where one partner in the relationship finds that sexual orientation no longer fits the relationship in which he or she is in and that makes the person wish to get a divorce. It is quite sour to have to confess adultery in order to get out of a relationship experienced by a person's heart deep down that no longer belong to a person. For fun, we can look at the other side of this coin. What's the situation, e.g. today if people think and want to marry together? There's no need for six months of thought. In the capital area, people may turn to the businessman, who figures out two or three weeks to see if marriage material meets all criteria and find a suitable time for the ceremony. Although this is hardly a long time, it may be longer than the office might want, it takes two or three weeks today. If love is so much stronger in people, the more they can try to visit other districts. I had earlier contact with the Selephoss office to find out what the situation was there, and it is expected that people could be brought to about about a year or so. week from submission of all documents. In an offer, people would be allowed to get married with an Elf in the background so that they would be more and more quick and better in some respects. Mr. President. You should be able to break up your marriage in the most simple way possible. Well, that's not the point. If this bill is legal, we simply trust people just as well to appreciate these two equals decisions.
