ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u1	The president considers it possible for a meeting to last longer than the Council to be held if necessary. Consider it approved. The President wants to announce a planned lunch break from noon. 13 to 13.30.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u2	By letter, by day. May 27, 2020, the president has requested it, as per number 8 of 1st. 13th par. Parliaments, on the board of administration and monitoring committees, are reporting on the state review report, the stock process, unemployment benefits due to a decrease in employment ratio.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u3	There have been letters from foreign and development co-worker to ask for extended deadlines to provide written answers to panel requests. 869, on trial and non-conviction executions, from Rósa Björk Brynjólfsdóttir's daughter, on a threshing floor. 584, search for submarines, from Andrés Ingi Jónsson, to padding. 1052, on the impact of foreign countries on election results, from Hrafn Hynn Gunnarsson on deck. 124, the Ministry's comments on legal opinions, and on trinkets. 113, on the commitment of the Icelandic government to correctly introduced EU types, the European Court's priorities are both from Ólafur Ísleifsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u4	So far about the 2nd and 3th session that the seminars were distributed after April 1 and the deadline is not yet up to 3 mg. Thirty-seven. Parliamentary conditions, i.e. So called a five-day rule. Hence, there is a need for consent to take the matter on. The president's view of these variants is adopted without a vote if no one objects to it. That is not the case and is therefore approved and discussed later at this meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u5	To answer, Economic and Economic Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers and Foreign and Development Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u6	Mr. President. I'm just gonna talk to the highest. Minister on the seaside. It is not new in itself that the Independence Party does not share our vision in the UN of the fishing system, either about the need to provide resources or the demand for a natural fee in a constitution for the use of the country's common resource. The Independence Party has not lent a court case on exports, such as a market route that could pay the owners the normal price. At that time, members of the Independence Party have taken all our suggestions on the rise in hunting costs and have actually dropped them half during the election season and repeated skimmings of the article, even now even in the middle of a viral epidemic. I am fully aware that seafood companies vary, just as in other industry. In fact, there are solutions to meet them. But it is also clear that the owners of many of the largest have shaved to themselves in recent years, even in the down-and-up cycle. In these days, Iceland's record was passed on as a legacy of accumulated profits from the nation's common resources were given to a new generation. It is the most important move of values between generations in Icelandic production history of our limited resource. What's the bottom line? For example, in the case of a marine minister, that the amount of money involved in this project and comes in response to the use of the common resource of the nation, is there not a greater proportion of taxes? Is that in all sincerity normal, fair, healthy?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u7	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. He crossed a bit widely and strongly asserted the independence party's position on the various issues, e.g. that the Independence Party had rejected any idea of time binding on the resource use agreements. That's wrong. Hv. A senator should be well aware that a committee was then inexorably cut off. A senator and a fine companion of ours to many years, the late Guðbjartur - fearing Hannesson of Hanne, led and came to a conclusion. It was not the Independence Party that broke that agreement. Long-term agreements on the use of this resource were laid down. Also included were the regulations of the government covenant of the Independence Party, the Restoration and the Career's Future to adopt it. For some reason, this has not been achieved, and there is a need for compromise on such a controversial issue, but it has not been established on the Independence Party at any given time. More than one person is needed when it's time to make contracts. We can always debate whether these cases are reasonable and reasonable. It's gonna be a little personal eating at any time. To me, there is no doubt that the fishing grounds are part of the European Union. This is in the case of 1st C.E. Fishy control law. In fact, the Independence Party has repeatedly spoken about recording a constitution of resources, so we have not been affected in this discussion. Sadly, though, the political elements of the council have not been made desolate to achieve that agreement. There is no one alone to blame for that. We all share responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u8	Mr. President. Of course, it's important that in the fishing law, this is what we're dealing with, that's clear. However, it is not enough when individual contractors and their heirs can shovel out of this article indefinitely of money. By means of the temporary distribution of resources, we could prevent them from being delivered from generations to generations in this way. The reason I mention that the Independence Party will not bring this up is simply the attitude of the Independence Party to the officers'work in the Constitution. There is new news, and I hope that the chairman of the Independence Party will attend our next meeting and agree that we will enter the Constitution rules for time binding. He hasn't brought it up. But I would like to have a minister answer to whether he feels that this is normal, fair and healthy, not that there is a difference of opinion in society. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to have a minister know if he thinks this is a healthy situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u9	A respectable president. Because it was claimed that the head of the Independence Party should be better at the Constitution then he's always been there, so it's said here from this chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u10	Don't turn your back. ...
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u11	No, I'm just answering any claims. Senator, President. Here, both the independence party's position and his conduct on these matters - if I get to be, then. A senator - when it comes to discussing the natural need for money to be evicted from the article. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] No, it's not natural for me to think that money is shoveled out of some particular industry, if that is the case. That's what I'm talking about. A senator makes an interview here, I'll bet I saw it at the same time as before. A member of the media. It hasn't come on my level.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u12	But did they... think it was healthy? Thought it was fair...?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u13	I was saying, I don't think it's normal if people are in some sort of financial situation. It's just that way. There is only a set of rules, both tax laws, and certain laws on how to handle them, and they must be followed.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u14	A respectable president. I'm going to direct a request to the highest level. Secretary of the budget and chairman of the Independence Party. Yesterday, we listened to a remarkable Castlight. I'm not gonna ask a question about characters and players, it's off and on. And I'm not going to direct a question to the highest either. While the Independence Party supported the government's hostility throughout the ideal period of business, a secretary of private health care. That's not what I was going to ask you. Much further exposes this interview by Kári Stefánsson yesterday that there is still no clear plan for the government to open the country. We're in the same week that our trinkets, Alma and Þórólfur, have answered every question, called out criticism, sent out messages to increase confidence, eliminate uncertainty, and trust in security in times of uncertainty. That is what we are asking for from the government and the government as well. We at the government position are very old because the government is nothing to consult with us, just fine. But this lack of communication with the main stakeholders who can help the nation open the land is beyond me. It was a political decision to open the country on June 15, where I thought that people would go to prepare it and talk to those who can help us with it, regardless of whether they were in the public health system or in the private market. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Does he think it's convenient - it was good to mark six ministers who announced this opening with a popupus and pug two weeks ago - that the time since then has not been used to clock and talk to the major members, the members who have shown to this they have helped us fight the virus? [[The president calls.]] Does he feel that this is a suitable development? Tells you the highest. Minister of Health Ministers to speak with all those who can assist and increase the safety and trust of the public? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u15	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying that when it happened. A senator says there's no plan, so I think there's a lot of reverse. We have been following a plan that has worked out perfectly, so much attention has been drawn. Right away. A senator points out that six ministers have presented a plan for the next step, the next plan and the points. A senator notes that now only practicality is left over. Well, if it's what's stated in the Castlight show last night, perhaps the only thing that needs to happen is for Kári Stefánsson to change one setting in his phone because he did not prevent the company from coming up on matters if they were looking for it. It is true that Icelandic genetic analysis has played a key role in ensuring the implementation of screenings in Iceland, so we are only talking about developing factors that are completely clear and, of course, targeted under changing circumstances. We have, for example. It is difficult to predict exactly how many people will arrive in the country by airplanes during the latter part of June. It's very difficult to predict. But the key point is that we have made it clear that we have a well - established plan. We have good people with us, and now we will try to implement this ambitious projection program for screens at Keflavour Airport, and I have no doubt that we will seek all the ways to get it right.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u16	V.E.G. President. Yes, I noticed that the question was not answered. That's not the first time. But I asked the highest. A minister simply: Does he believe that it has been appropriate for him not to consult with those who have, in fact, placed their hands on public health systems to get us out of the fight? Does he feel that it is appropriate for health ministers and health officials in the government not to speak to all the members who can help us open the country? This declaration of opening hope was that we were entering a new era. That's when the politics are taking over, because we've been relying on our scientific people, these great scientists, they've guided politics. The power of decision has now been transferred to the politicians, politicians, and governments, who have all the evidence in their hands. It is government to be responsible for the organization now, and it does not mean to hide behind our scientific people in this. So I ask: Do the secretary's opinion that there were no interviews to produce Icelandic genetics? I also see that this also surprised the viral department at the Land Hospital. [[The president calls.]] After the press conference, she was interviewed. [[The president calls.]] I don't think this scenario is credible, it's not worth trust, and I'm sorry. I'd like to add one more question: How do the Minister sees the cost? [[The president calls.]] We heard quite a different figure yesterday than the ones who've been officially introduced.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u17	A respectable president. The question here is, Is it practical for the vast majority of our most skilled people to be consulted? I have simply answered that we have shown by our actions that it is exactly what we do. As a result, our good results are based on good results. Now we have a plan for opening the border in mid - June, and I'm going to state here that of course it's going to be a professional thing as we've done so far. I'd like to say that there is something else that is on a very weak foundation. It seems to me that only the one - sided statements Kári by Stefánsson last night, which did not prevent access to the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u18	A respectable president. Hv. The employment committee gave us a bill that we agreed on at the council last year, where we thought of little boat owners and their pursuit of our fish during the summer season. We distributed them 48 days. We discussed how we were going to prevent the so - called Olympic fishing, where they strive to sail between areas to catch fish. So we're here with A, B, C and D compartments. We also talked about trying to prevent accidents at sea, trying to avoid the efforts of sailors to look into bad weather to try to make good use of the days they had already received. I know, and we knew last year, that there was a growling in the Sculptors, for there were subs that were just snorkeling up in a hardland. We know exactly what it's all about. Today, a 300 - ton boat from Southnes, which has almost always reached either the Sanding itself or the Cove, is drying up the Patres Fjords on a snarl. I have no doubt that the highest. A minister has heard these dissatisfactions, which are not just due to this one example, but because of so many other reasons. So I'd like to know: "How is it that these items are passed on, that ships come elsewhere, a giant ship that can dry up the feathers that little boatmakers might otherwise use, e.g. By being inside the beaches rather than looking further in order to fish? First of all, I ask, "Have the highest. " A sea chief minister has no knowledge of this? And second, is he going to let this happen?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u19	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It's true that we've made some changes in the coastal fishing system, including... to try to reduce this Olympic fishing program there. It was one pot, and then they could just pick up one on their own terms. We changed this to the point that there are now 12 days a month that humans can choose to row for fish. I think the results of this include: Be who you are. A senator noted earlier that, fortunately, the risk of an accident was reduced, so that some of the purpose for that purpose has been reached. I know this debate over the snarls that have lasted years and years, for a very long time. I am raised in Eyjafjörður, where this discussion has been for many of the Lord's years and has always been. I have not been at the site to ban specific fishing opportunities in certain areas because the fishing system makes it possible for humans to pick up on their own terms what they have the authority to take. Marine research agencies have drawn lines and proposed to the Ministry over the years if there is to be a limit to the application in certain seas and the Ministry has already followed this counsel carefully. But the Ministry has not necessarily had a direct political intervention in the fishing business, as it sounds to me. A senator is calling for.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u20	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Yes, I call for it, that's pretty clear. I understand that 20 years ago, this was exactly what had to be done with snarl fishing into the hardland, just up in the veggies of men. Nor is it true that while the principle was to give men and sailors free choice to attend and to apply the resources given to them, this certainly does not apply to small boat owners, as it were, at the highest rate. A minister rightly said so earlier. It has been divided into four areas to try to stop the Olympic fishing, but at the same time, a 300 -ton boat enters the Patrek Fjord and wipes up all the catch. This refuge that little boatmen may be able to take advantage of when there is a bad weather, instead of taking advantage of it on the flyer now, they need to get outside where there is a severe blow. Based on the maximum regulations force. Ministers have now established, and e.g. Just slippery away the gray flippers with a single line of pens, I ask: Is it not necessary, given the harmful effects of the marine environment, to the highest level? Will a minister accept this for a reexamination? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u21	A respectable president. It claims that snorkeling is some special evil in the life of the sea. I'll let me say it isn't. There are other fishing instruments that are much worse than a snarl, just to be said here. Right away. A member of the council will discuss whether a ship from the South would be forbidden to hunt in a certain fjord or some particular trail by which to hunt the country. So a senator draws the line? Should the Horners be forbidden to come to the north of the Gulf of Hunsia or Southnesa to hunt because of the Axura? [[Up front.]] I think we've come to some crazy place if we're going to split this up depending on where the crews or ships are coming from. We are to direct the wave from a completely different source of reason - how we like a particular area or a set of shapes. Hv. A member of the council named the Department of Regulation. On the contrary, the person standing here has not added to the system of things but to the extent of cutting it down. I don't know. A member of the Parliament says that we have decreased the regulations of the marine sector and the Department of Agriculture to a high level of 1,300.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u22	A respectable president. V.E.G. The marine and agricultural minister took on an important task to further support Icelandic employment as a result of the questionable practices of the marine export business, Samherja, Namibia, U.S.A. A fall. Among them was a rapid review of interrelated marine species definitions. However, this review takes a considerably longer approach, as indicated by the President's permission of a state accountant's report on the Fish Lab: In accordance with State Reexamination, efforts by workers in the Fish Room can be attributed to the efforts of workers to define more accurately the terms '-related persons' and '- and '-real authority' again over a more than a decade. The report states that the experience of the Fish Office with initiatives on the connection between the Samherian fishing society, the saveout process, and the host between 2009-2010, and their loud objections to their real authority between them, played a major role in the conclusion that it is difficult to demonstrate the indirect control of business groups by the current law. It says that because of this, there has been no active monitoring of the links between companies in the fishing industry and the fishing industry ever since. President. V.E.G. A seafaring minister has published bills that answer the call of Fish House and turns the evidence burden on linked parties to the companies itself, which is well. However, it's worse to get to the top. Ministers intend to overgive authorities a maximum of six years in order to adapt because the Fish Room is enabled to enforce the regulations. The minister has said the view behind this is that the subject of the bill has a burdensome effect on the work that has been built up in accordance with existing laws. A respectable president. It has long been clear that the law says that the maximum amount of resources per party and linked partners is 12%. It's a bill. It's a TV. A minister does not, in effect, change this peak, simply giving the fish lab tools to enforce the climax. But instead of giving it to a Fish Lab, wait another six years in the decade that she has already waited for. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking the highest. Minister how to build trust in Icelandic employment to give six more years to do the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. The first thing I want to say is that it's a natural thing. A senator called the bill of a seafaring minister when no comment was made on the confidentiality problem, calling for it. [[Up front.]] That bill was based on the conclusion of a committee set up in the following report by the Government Review of these topics. One of the comments inside that are valid and very strong is that the rationality of the law on the real owners and related is not good enough, and that it has not been for a long time, so that it can enforce the measures facing the maximum supply department. For that reason, I requested that this be put first and try to speed it up. It was reported that the Senate's Constitution would have to be revised. In view of the uncertainty of the Covid epidemic and the discussion that there was nothing to be done here on this agenda, I decided that it would be better to keep it until the fall and allow the Commission to finish their work and bring a total bill at the autumn Summit on these matters. The time set out in the crossword puzzle, this six years, was presented with reference to changes previously made in the legislation. There, that standard was established. It was put forth primarily to call for a response to it. At the same time, conferences, including members of the Parliament, had been held. A restoration that expected a change. It expected up to 20 years of lead-in period for the changes set, so there have been and there have been some opinions about how long to be given to adjust to some change in these materials.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u24	A respectable president. I wondered if a minister would be open to shortening this adjustment phase in view of the fact that the case has been delayed until autumn and in view of how long it has been requested to have a tool for implementing laws, which is a total of 12%. It's always been clear. The supreme example. A minister points to the same rule when a hook - up point was put under the same rule. It is certainly a material change in the quality of the assessment of the maximum power department. But now it's not suggested to change the maximum power section. It is suggested only that the Fish Room have tools, that cultures are made to prove themselves that they are not linked. We're here to set a protocol on the principle 12% Maximum Level Department. As a result, I feel that the evidence of such a long lead period is not relevant to the fact that the hook - up point was taken. [[The president calls.]] Is a minister open to revising the tremendous length of time that he intends to provide for an act of law? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u25	A respectable president. The answer to that question is: Yes, it's all open. It is finally the matter of determining what the outcome will be. I'm sure I would consider discussing all the advantages and shortcomings with the time given to adapt to such a dramatic change. I'll make it clear that she's a controversial person and she'll be. Many concerns arise in this regard. The reason I went to this particular assignment was that there is an urgent need for it, for all parties of the case and for anyone affected by a fishing government, that there are sources that are as clear in this. If we have a chance to make this shorter thing, I'll be happy to do it. Let's just find ways to do it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u26	Mr. President. Congress and nation have become quite accustomed to the development of the government at press conferences and to announce their plans for success. The government has been so lucky that the government has dealt well with it and has tried to circumvent some of the worst problems ever made. As an example, I can tell you, it's probably two months ago since the bridge loan program came along, and one loan is hardly being given at all. It has become the custom of a council and a nation. But now the government has announced the world that Iceland will open June 15th. The world is not used to receiving memorization, as we have recently received at the council and believe that the land will be opened on June 15th. Then you have to ask: What plans are there? It has been shown that no consultation was made. Some doctors have stepped forward, having no idea. This week, the head of head of the parade - they had no idea. The question is, How will the government win this thing? Is she going to work with anyone? I may have understood the whole thing better when it was the highest. Secretary of finance earlier said: It's just the construction. It's just the project, think about it. This is exactly what the government has worked for. That's just what's left of it. It was just announced at a press conference with a bang and then nothing happened, it's just the project. I have to ask the highest. Minister of Two Questions: What is the plan to open the country on June 15? And how is it that the costs of screening at Keflavík Airport are vastly higher than the costs of each other, i.e. The figures we heard last night from a respected scientist and the numbers the Ministry has proposed? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u27	A respectable president. I expect that. A senator does not regret having supported the government in her plans to deal with the epidemic, so it has been a success to eliminate the virus from this cycle even though we may still need to be on guard. We also see this on national economic activities; maps are increasing, traffic is growing again, schools are starting to change, and swimming pools and gymnasiums are opening up. So we've been here with a plan that's been successful, and I must assume that the government situation that has been with us in ensuring the progress of the cases that had to happen to the Council will not regret it. In terms of what was specifically asked and about opening a border in mid - June, we have been working with our most skilled people, experts in this field, across a number of departments, to evaluate what is practical. After that decision, there is a considerable amount of work and a summary of the challenges we face. Clearly, one of the challenges is that we do not know exactly how many people come, and it is a huge task on the border to be screened for hundreds, even thousands of people a day. We know that at the most, there were thousands of people here a day, perhaps more than 4,000. That's what it's all about, and that's what it's about. It is a wide variety of challenges to all involved, health officials, but also the border guard and just the airport itself, that we have equipment, facilities, and organization that can predict all this work. [[The president calls.]] I believe that as so far as we have done well, we will succeed in solving it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u28	Mr. President. I'm not gonna agree with the highest. Minister that I have anything to do with eliminating this virus because it belongs to our health care professionals without charge. Uncertainty, says the highest. Minister. It's not that much of a uncertainty, is it? Minister. If there are six plane planes in the morning for the first few weeks, we can assume that 1,200 people are coming here, i.e. Relative to 100% of unlikely utilisation. Then we'll figure it out naturally, won't we? It's not that unlikely. These plans are made weeks and months into the future. If flight routes sit, for example. ... cantell us prior to June 15 how many planes arrive in Iceland on December 31nd. That's the way it is, and there's not much uncertainty. The only uncertainty about how the government works is. V.E.G. Minister said we had our best people trying to figure this out. But one doctor after another comes along and says: "I had no idea. [[The president calls.]] The director of the Land Hospital, an infectious surgeon, had no idea. [[The president calls.]] What was the best people they were working with? The Ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u29	A respectable president. Of course, we've been working with the people who've come to these matters and stood on the front line, such as a psychiatrist, a publicist, a state police officer, a surgeon, and others. These are the people we've been counting on so far and we've kept on doing. Different numbers are asked about costs. Of course, the cost of each tourist falls as more people share in paying the regular expenses. This, therefore, depends on the basis for which they decide on the cost. Of course, it is much more interesting to talk about going into it than it is when it comes to it. A senator offers this, asking himself: " How long should we take up such an cost and how much can it be to justify the operation? I think we're on the right track. We should aim to screen all those who come in and see what information we get from that screening to make further decisions thereafter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u30	Mr. President. I just want to be clear before we go further into the Senate Day that, of course, I wasn't saying it to the highest level. The secretary of finance failed to attend a meeting of the Constitution committee. In fact, he has visited all the meetings that we have been preaching together. What I meant was that I was hoping that he would come to the next meeting of the Board of Directors and would agree to the Constitutional Committee on Resources. In fact, I think graduation of my talks will show. Of course, you have to expect ministers who come here in an answer to try to read in context and answer questions materially rather than cut sentences out of context with some phrase. But if it's come out wrong, of course, I'm asking for the best. Secretary of the budget is sorry for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u31	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to raise the budget for the year 2020. 1488. This is what I think is the third budget bill we brought here at this spring Summit. The bill presents the General Parliament's proposal for changes in the budgets of various causes and litigation because of the economic consequences of the pandemic of the Korean virus. The impact of the epidemic on the economy has been becoming more evident in the past few weeks. Yet, there is still no way to determine how great they will be at the end of the day. Since the beginning of the epidemic, a number of economic measures have been implemented. Even now, before 2020, the General has approved a couple of budgets, as I agreed. The contribution of their primary metastasis was made to general issues due to the results of the pandemic Covid-19. It also discussed the plans of the World Bank on prospects in the global economy and international emphasis on measures in public finance. This has been the same prime report for the actions of the Icelandic government and the related financial arrangements for the pandemic and I believe it is appropriate to refer to their early reports for further information. The economy is now faced with a double shock, one of which is a sharp recession of domestic demand and, on the other, a major drop in tourism. It looks like the economic recession is getting deeper and the growth is followed by slower than was originally predicted and unemployment can become more chronic than Icelanders are used to. We were last to see news on a large number of reports, unfortunately, and the appearance of the job has been getting worse as the weeks have gone by. At the same time, the government has made some decisions on major measures to cope with the effects of the epidemic, but it is clear that it will take some time to see the full impact of their efforts on the economy. To date, governments have set up counter measures in four phases over a period of about seven weeks, from mid - March to the end of April. The first stage involved legalization of March 13th. ... withtheremends on local payment of income tax, return and insurance fees. Three pack of measures have been reported and the latest measures were introduced at the end of April. These include extension of the part-time job route, payment of a part-price and payment for an enterprise. This bill for financial support for 2020 is primarily suggested to provide additional sources for the government's decision on the market and temporary measures to respond to the epidemic's impact on the labour market. In addition, there is a bill requested for the collection of budgets due to reimbursement of filmmaking in Iceland and requested that there be a change in the budget of the bill. A respectable president. Here are proposals for new projects and additional sources relating to budgets that were unforeseeable to finance budgets of the current year and are now under strict or inevitable circumstances. The bill asks that government funds during 2020 be increased by over 65 billion, corresponding to an increase of 6.3% of previously approved funds. Have that amount of resources raised by 103 billion dollars. in November 2000, the budget was adopted. Total but current budgets for 2020 about 1,042 billion dollars. The scope of the bill is explained by a small but important budget. That's 3rd. The bill also proposed changes to the reference regulations, as used earlier. They're in 6. The budget for 2020 I'll lead them to the main subject of the bill. First of all, there is a recommendation to increase the budget due to payment of damages in addition to a decrease in employment rate. A total of 34 billion are recommended between March 15 and 31 of the program. These are the rights to pay unemployment improvements in parallel to the decrease in employment rate due to temporary contractility to employers'activities due to the Covid-19 pandemic. By the end of April, more than 6,600 companies made good use of the part-back pathway for over 35,000 employees, with an average work ratio of 64%. More than half of the enterprises have one worker in a reduced proportion and 91% less than 10 employees. It is expected that the treatment will be extended about three months to August 31 and that some 14,000 will be used in that period. Second, it is suggested to raise the budget for more than 27 billion because of payment from a government fund on a part of the staff's pay at the deadline. The budget's a two-way thing. On one hand, it is up to 27 billion due to the payment of part of the pay per notice and 50 million due to the administrative costs of the tax due to software generation, as well as the payment of applications and surveillance. It is estimated that some 12,500 workers, most of whom work in travel services, may be covered by some 12,500. The estimated cost is 85% of the average salary cost of travel services and related articles, of which 540 you have. K. every month, i.e. Pays and pensions. The maximum support for each employee will be established for a period of three months, as well as pay is expected for orlofi. The total cost of the state funds is estimated to be an average of 2.1 million per employee. Third, it is suggested that $2 billion be added as a result of payment on persons who have been diseased under the guidance of the government. It has been a key tool for combating the virus, and the goal of paying from the employment insurance fund is to protect individuals from loss of income and to help them obey the commands of the government. Maximum budget is 630 units. K. a month compared to the full month of the calendar. Startingly, the period of payment was expected to reach April 30, 2020, which has been extended to September 30, 2020. It has been observed that a lot more people have been forced to get infected than we originally planned, so there are expectations that the amount of payment will be considerably higher than the 700 million originally expected to cost. It is a little difficult, though, to predict, but we use the same criteria for the cost of resources that were set up when the initial projection of the cost of resource was made. In other words, there is evidence that all of these 2 billion will not be tested at all, but we do not consider it to be too dangerous to secure and then fall down, if not new. As noted earlier, this period is being extended to September 30, so we will see better as this year nears its end. Fourth, an increase of 2.1 billion is suggested as a result of reimbursement at the cost of film making in Iceland. The amount of reimbursement to be met is intended to outweigh the costs. The budget for the year 2020 has already been paid off, but the unsolved words of the year are only about 2.1 billion in the budget. The budget, on the other hand, was divided into non-reliant agreements for projects 2020 estimated to be a reimbursement of the year; however, it is reported that previous years are expected to be paid this year. By meeting up groups at reimbursements, there will be room for new projects and opportunities to take advantage of in the article following the Covid-19 pandemic, but in view of the benefits of Iceland's contracting epidemics, there is an increase in the interest of moviemakers in Iceland. A respectable president, then I'm going to step up to new sources on the bill. In the 3rd. It is proposed to change the legal requirements of Article 6. The budget for 2020 This article is suggested to include two new sections. On one hand, it is authorized to provide up to 650 million dollars. a contribution to Korea, an independent government fund, which invests in specialized funds, which have the intention of investing in wands and innovation companies. On the other hand, the authority to provide up to 500 million dollars. a contribution to the New Creation Fund of employment, an independent agency owned by the State, to the host of the special interfaces to the sceptre companies that have experienced temporary setbacks due to a pandemic crown virus. The Minister of Creation will handle a contract with the Organencial Fund for the implementation of the front, their conditions, and their terms. A respectable president. So I've studied the key elements of this bill for financial support by 2020. I suggest that the bill, following this discussion, be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. The Senate budget, which considers the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u32	A respectable president. We're going to discuss the budget, and I'd like to direct questions to the highest level. Secretary of finance. What I always feel is missing in the discussion is the subject of the elderly, and I'm kind of waiting to hear about whether these matters are not at his table. Don't they get any benefits from Covid? Are all older ones in such a condition that they do not need any help? Is it reasonable that a certain group of older citizens even need to be released at serials? Is something on the table at the highest? A minister to do something in the worst interests of the elderly? Here we are pumping out money and helping out and helping people to quit jobs and other activities. There seems to be enough money to pump out, but there does not seem to be money to help elderly ones who are in a bad state.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u33	A respectable president. I've got to start by drawing attention to each other now. A senator's rights to the law for financial aid, and they are similar to the use of a general reserve. We supplied funds for the social security system in budgets for the current year, and I call it what we call it. A senator will explain whether something has happened specifically, in the thank - you systems, or in the position of those who rely on the pension of social security, which requires the response as a matter of course. A senator is calling for. And already it is. A senator says that there seems to be no place in the funds of the state to support these groups, so I must completely reject that vision. In recent years, we have had absolutely unique progress on social security donations that have almost doubled the value of payment in a few years. It doesn't change that we're in a position where we can't create enough value here in Iceland to ensure all Icelanders who have not been able to start their new careers building up their pension rights to support their survival. But we do better than most, and we do better today than ever before. So we have been on the right track, and by continuing to make valuables, by shutting down the new allowance that is significant this year, we will hopefully prosper in the future to continue doing well in these material.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u34	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers, but I'm afraid I have to disagree because we set 20,000 bucks. one payment for invalids into the budget. It was very small, but there was good and need for it and much more. But we haven't put a cent in with an older citizen. That's why I'm wondering, that's what I know about older citizens who are doing this. We're talking about the people that built this country. We're talking about the ones at the lowest wage, who have worked most because they get the least out of the system. And who still gets less? Women who were at home. It's all picked up, and now it's time to raise food and other items for a gang. People have had to stay at home and order and be sent. It's expensive. The elderly also have the right to help.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u35	A respectable president. Truly, those who have to rely on social security have the right to be with them. And it is true that we decided to post a special additional payment to those on disability. I am not entirely convinced that they are in exactly the same situation as those of old age, since we have recently changed the system of disability, but have failed to achieve success, despite years of work. That's very sorry. I also note that we owe a substantial amount of money, a ruined budget, in the current year for the case that reduces the need for another proposal into a financial bill when the legal rights of the Party are not fully used. [[The president calls.]] So this is not entirely comparable. So this ruined budget is in disability but rough. A senator wants extra money into his pension.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u36	Mr. President. These funds are reimbursed for filmmaking on the basis of older projects. It's an ancient commitment. It's a good one. However, I would like to look into the future and ask a minister directly out if he is not prepared to raise his payout rate from 25% to e.g. 35%. Such a change is really vital today. Ministers and I may agree that there needs to be a job here, but such a change would create jobs in the private sector, but there would also be a great deal of tax gain. The film industry could be the next Eyjafjörðurjokull. This is a huge industry, and we need only a fraction of it to help us out out of this crisis. The interest is this summer. Netflix has confirmed it, but the remuneration rate is in charge here. It doesn't mean much to talk about doing this in a more distant and beautiful future. [[The president calls.]] Time is now. And, Mr. President, if the Minister says yes to this question, it's a big story. If he says no, it's also a big story.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u37	A respectable president. I'm here to suggest that we work up the tail we have. It can be said that we have a very rigid frame of these matters, where we make budgets in an arrangement, which, in turn, put a fixed dollar into an arrangement, since we have no control over the total figure of money each year. This may result in time delay between production and reimbursement. We propose that it be won up. Whether or not you're right. A senator says that it is necessary to go up to 35% to resolve the opportunities for further activity in this sector, I dare not say so. I haven't evaluated that position. On the other hand, I insist that with the weaker gangs of the crown against a dollar, this situation was completely changed. We're actually paying up about 25% of all the domestic costs of film making, which is very serious. As we add to the collapse of the gang, the situation has improved even more. That is also why many assignments are being carried out in this country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u38	Mr. President. I'm rather sad that a minister is not prepared to agree that the payment rate should be raised right now. The article has called for this. It matters. Otherwise, I feel like this part of a bigger picture because I feel that this government lacks a vision of the future. It's very interesting to know that 75% of the government's actions are about to substantiate the information on people and put people on unemployment. It is of great interest that only 5% of the government's operations go into innovation. 5%. It's almost nothing. But with increased support for innovation, the personal enterprise would be very short, and the future would be developed. In the final collapse, the United States set up a green and ambitious investment plan that focused on the economy, innovation, economic growth, and diversity. That's why I want to encourage the Minister to do some good things and add more to innovation, art, film industry, and other factors. But as we examine the numbers in these three budgets, we see a lack of ambition and a lack of a vision for the future. [[The president calls.]] We do not see a schedule for making jobs or defending jobs. This is in my mind the government of resignation and surrender, if anything. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u39	A respectable president. I must strongly object that it is characteristic of the government's actions to subjugate information. We simply face the fact that companies who have lost more than 75% of their income, remained in that position, and saw that it remains that way, are unlikely to be able to repay in pay, pension, and pay off orlof. This is an operation for the employees, this is a job for the paymen. That the government wants to put people on unemployment rates is, of course, a total flyer. We would like, however, for those who face the tragic situation of losing their jobs to be supported. I think we've never seen anything like this before in our country and in order to save our jobs and have resisted when a cloud withdraws from the sun. That's the mark of government action.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u40	Mr. President. I thank the Minister for the story of this third budget bill. I'd like to include only the damages and the pay of unemployment along with a decrease in employment rate. It is suggested that 34 billion dollars be placed. on this and being sent to get a warrant for it. We have received reports that this way has been abused. First of all, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if this has been ensured that it will not remain. Has this remedy been prevented? In addition, I'd like to ask a minister about the fact that there's a standard company, over 50 companies, which paid compensation by media coverage, and then any probable money comes into the state fund, some hundreds of millions, I think. [[The president calls.]] It is not expected to lower that budget. I specifically asked about it on a budget committee, and I haven't been able to figure out how much money is worth or anything like that. [[The president calls.]] Is that not normal?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u41	A respectable president. I understand that the matter is coming out of the Senate Committee, and there it has been considered that to see whether we've been sufficiently tight enough or if we've gone too far in some area to narrow the conditions for the partial reformal process. I think the project is in order to find the right balance between opening options that will keep the recruitment relationship and the other not setting such conditions for accessation that the resignation is always a better option for the employer. It is the job of those who built the bill, the minister, and those who are now working on the case at the council to find the average gold. Otherwise, I feel that it has been totally taken up in the discussion of misuse of the resources that the companies have never received a dollar from this strategy. They lost the staff's jobs as well when they were on part-time improvement, so the companies paying back the state are not reimburseing anything they received. [[The president calls.]] What the workers received is being reimbursed. This opinion, which has a final cost - I don't consider it a serious matter because it will become clear and resources that need not be used. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u42	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. I'd like to get on with the resources of promoting employment for those who are looking for employment this summer and the next winter. This is extremely important and has been put into it. But wouldn't it have been more reasonable to put more into the options and perhaps reduce the financial resources this is requesting for an example? It is clear that autumn will be difficult. Of course, we hope that tourists will come to some extent in late summer and early autumn; yet, it is a very important resource, such as with students and summer work, and the rural communities are involved. But then we look forward to the autumn and winter, and we have to try to create a job opportunity for those who are looking for a job search. Would it not have been wise to place more money on that route?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u43	A respectable president. Of course, it is sad to have to see the position that has created since we are making the decision to pay off non-employers, benefits, as if they have an active contract with their employer, but there are no jobs. In effect, we are paying without any work being done. This is a sad fact. It's not good enough. Of course, I agree with what. When a senator asks: " Wouldn't it be easier to put as much money as possible to create new jobs and make use of this money for something to happen? ' I agree with that. Actually, we're putting a lot of money into it. I'd say we're just working secularly, too, with this vast support to our rural communities, for example, calling for a few thousand people on all kinds of work that was not planned and that is more than that. [[The president calls.]] We have the possibility of allowing companies to recruit people of unemployment and to keep their money for some time later, when the part - time job route is over. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u44	A respectable president. It's almost nothing new here, no new news, it's all sources that are already fulfilling bills that are already before the council or that have been completed. But there are two things I would like to ask a minister. That is, on the one hand, what was mentioned in the previous answer, the misuse of options, or even the way of paying on notice. What does the misuse of these measures mean? Is it some kind of cash, if it's taken the money, the public money, and then comes up to the fact that the conditions are not completely applied? Is that paid back? What kind of make-up is that? The other questions I would like to ask are: At a financial hearing, we were confirmed that we are well beyond current financial policy. Can governments only choose to comply with a judicial arrangement for practicality?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u45	A respectable president. No, it is not that Congress laws are followed by practicality. There must be some clear reason, grammatical reasons if a person is not able to live up to what has been determined before. Of course, in the case of abuse of resources, the most clear example is that of humans who fail to meet the requirements of the law but who fully understand the right to use the resources offered by the law. However, I think, in general discussion on the use of all these deliberations, we have been stirred into one bowl, what we would agree to in which men simply do not meet the requirements, and they need to be found with follow-up on and, on the other, cases in which men are on the right side of the law, can show that they are not breaking the law, but may not work in the spirit of the law as I would like to say it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u46	A respectable president. I wanted to ask for some objective reasons why we haven't had a new financial policy yet. As noted, governments are not going to follow current financial policies. The law is very clear that they should arrive as soon as possible a new financial policy. There was an opinion from a financial body that was all over the way that economicism should come as soon as possible, that nothing should be ambiguous about it, and then added to one phrase that there was still a legal basis for the lack of a new financial policy. There was a contradiction in this that did not explain the grammatical reasons. After all, under government laws on public finances, governments should show firmness and transparency, and so forth, and not be able to choose everything at once over a few months. Why isn't there a new financial policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u47	First, I'd like to say, a respectable president, that in times of need. A senator says that governments cannot choose to do one thing and another, so we are totally dependent on the fact that there would be more to such things at the General Assembly. This is a conversation between the council and the government. It is asked: What are the perplexing reasons? I have to say, I'm surprised you have to ask that question. The economic consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic are causing the largest and most economic degradation in Iceland over a century, indeed all over the world, and the uncertainty of the subsequent events. These are the reasons why I thought that there was absolutely no doubt in my mind that there were grammatical reasons why people didn't trust them, because of the uncertainty of the progress of the next month and how it would play out, including... In the international flight, to establish a plan for the next year and the following years until the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u48	Mr. President. Iceland needs an investment plan, an ambitious plan for the future. Last collapse, the United States government put in a special investment plan for Iceland. The focus was on the green economy of innovation, economic growth, and the variety of jobs. This schedule included: funded by resource costs. Now the nation needs to get a plan and increase money from their own resources. If not now when, Mr. President? On the other hand, such a future is not surprising to this government. There seems to be one man who manages, the Chairman of the Independence Party, and the rest pats his hands with praise. Let's go over a few things some of them look familiar. One of the main measures in the government today is to substantiate information on people and put them on unemployment. If we look at a table from the government itself, we will see that about 75% of the government's actions are being paid for unemployment and on a so - called resignational route. The government lacks a vision of making jobs. Jobs are important. We need to protect our jobs and make jobs. Of course, we need a generous unemployment insurance system, etc. But we need to think radically and large. I want to review it when I mentioned the other day that we should do exactly as our other neighboring nations are doing and that is increasing the number of public jobs. We have to do both, so I'll underline it, increase jobs in the private sector, but also in the public; increase the number of nurses, police officers, hospital staff, scientists, etc. These are nations around us. But the leader of the Independence Party reacted to the worst, calling it the worst idea he would ever have heard. I just want to let you know that this is an idea that Economist, AGS, and Fancial Times have recently developed. This need not only to increase public demand but also to increase the number of public jobs, both permanent and temporary. I say, Mr President, in view of the fact that other nations are doing this, fortunately, the Independence Party is not at the government anywhere else, but unfortunately he is here. This is the attitude of this great party, this fine party, the largest party in the country, to public employment. I'm not dragging the community into some socialist or anything like that, I'm calling for us to go to work and improve our ministry at the same time. It's the exact same way you've been going to a previous crisis. It's a 100-year-old debatt. One of the 20th century's chief economist, Keynes, pointed out exactly this way. Hence, it is so tragic that because of the claims of the Independence Party, it may be out of the question only to a limited extent. It is also tragic that the two socialism groups, as they sometimes call themselves, the advance party and the left green, pass this over, which I don't understand. The Independence Party needs you as much as you own them in this government as if anything else. You have the choice of working with other categories, but the Independence Party has far fewer options when it comes to a government because of its seemingly slaving ideologies. Let's face another fact: I've said that in a crisis the new word is magic. That word is hardly found in this government's dictionary. Let's take the board back from the Ministry of finance. How much of this operation's innovation? That's 5%. 5% of all these operations are undergoing innovation. It's almost nothing. We're supposed to put more in innovation. I know everyone in this symposium has said that innovation is important. Let's do it, put it more in innovation. We don't know where the next Meniga or Marel is. Betray the intelligence, technology, the pioneer nature of the Icelanders, the pledge of the private enterprise, which the head of the Independence Party has repeatedly called after the need to raise us up from this crisis. Support to innovation is support for the private enterprise. So I don't understand why I and the head of an independent party are not allies in putting more into innovation. But the three government groups have all repeated our proposals to further research, to further development, to more technology, to innovation, to national parish and technological development. With increased support for innovation, we would surely be living in the best interests of what we truly need to do. Let's take a look at the two allowances we've already done. We're talking about a third raise. How much is the total increase in the two budgets that have been paid? It's going up by 4%, about 40 billion. If we take this back in the table a good hurry, that's about 18 billion. That's less than 2% of what the state fund has out of playing, in a hurry of progress. Again: When the demand collapses in the private market, the government is to promote demand. That's how science works. The government can soften the impact and create demand while the private sector is in wounds, but a 2% increase in the rate of government spending, that's all. In which world is that enough to face the deepest crisis for 100 years? When the demand for a private market collapses, the government is creating a demand in return. It strengthens our job life, strengthens our personal enterprise. It's a lesson we got 100 years ago, but it doesn't seem to have come up to Valhalla. Let's go a little further. The government finally listened to the United States' idea of expanding into artists. But better, if it's enough. This is where I think we should have put more. It is better for people to do their own art than for them to be paid for unemployment. This is such an obvious idea that there should be no disagreement. But the government groups have refused the suggestion to increase the number of artists who, as everyone knows, have experienced an enormous loss of income because of the epidemic. I've also kept calling for us to put more into the movie fund and reimbursement. I did so in opposition to the minister. It is an idea that makes money because it attracts an assignment. I've been in good contact with people in the movie and television industry. There are jobs waiting to come to Iceland this summer; I'm talking about this summer, but it's probably a payback rate. I repeat, the state funds don't have to be paid back until the money's in and there's a lot more in there. As soon as we're assigned to the country, there'll be jobs here, activities, and tax returns. Then there's art and culture. It's so-called '-win-win'-thinking to place more money in it. Netflix, as well as this, announced that Iceland was one of the few countries that could be assigned in the summer. You can imagine the demand for movie and television after a year because films have been down the world. I want to be sincerely encouraging to the highest. The secretary of finance to raise the pay, and then I mean now, I mean, after lunch, we're on the move. Congress is about to go home. Summer's on. It is one note for the minister to raise the reimburse and he will not regret it at all, and the state box will be much less sorry for his swelling of the simple operation of raising his pay for television and films in Iceland. It makes money. I'd like to draw out a few other things. I've criticized that these packages of action, raise one two and three, are too small. The situation is that of serious seriousness, and according to financial projections, we are entering a very deep crisis. That's why we should let ourselves be something radical. We're supposed to let ourselves be in debt. We are also required to set aside sufficient time to cover these debts. Unlike the last collapse, we are the debts that a government fund needs to carry on in large amounts of domestic dollars. It matters. It will not be as much pressure as it once was to pay off debt. Here we need to stand up and defend the systems we've built, whether it's the welfare system or the education system. In the final collapse, we took the so - called mixed way. It was tried to protect the welfare and education system, but certain taxes were also raised and resource costs were increased. It's a discussion that we're going to take and it's going to be difficult, especially for the left greens and forwards in this partnership. This is the most crystalline difference between these categories, these are not the same categories. This is where we have to get up, we who want to protect the public system and the service to those who rely on public service, whether older citizens, desperates, students, minors, etc. That's a fight for the future. How are we going to work down that slope? What taxes will be raised? What taxes will not be raised? Will the government contribute to raising resource costs? I'm going to say from this chair: We're not going to tax ourselves out of the crisis, but we need our income and we need a fair tax system. We need a fair tax system that spreads the burdens. Today we have people who can do more. The richest 10% of the Icelanders own 60% of their possessions. We're here experiencing one of the greatest productions of values between generations by means of a system we've built in the fishing grounds. We can see that there is more to do here, including through resource expenditures. This is a discussion we need to take. If not now, when? However, since I am using the seaside, a certain number could be set in context. The so - called social package of the government is less than a factor in the reduction of this government's fishing spending during this season, while hunting costs have dropped by more than half during the season. This shows a little bit of the attitude, also shows the attitude in this regard that last week, it was run here against a special tax reduction for companies who bought large ships. I'm not making this up. This was the priority of the government, which left the greens and forwards, in the middle of a pandemic, to reduce taxes, the clocks, to companies that buy large ships. At the same time, this government felt that it was no problem to suggest that students could gain unemployment during the summer. But, Mr. President, students aren't great builders. To top this nonsense to the government groups that I hope the nation sees, these groups made a recommendation here at the General Assembly that it would ensure that companies holding an estate in the tax industry would not receive official support. That was a suggestion. She's been dropped. I wonder why. Kusu voters VG and their forwards bear this in mind? No, of course not. I've said this in the past that the government's proposals have been supported by us in the government. We are to stand together in such an emergency and we have done so in the opposition. But I remind you that the government groups have made every suggestion, so to speak, that comes from the opposition of the government. Why could it not be accessed in just an open way, listening to groups elected by 47% of the people instead of falling into the traditional firing force? That was absolutely unnecessary. We're a tiny country that doesn't have to think about in such a huge category of cypressing lines. That's totally unnecessary. There's a lot more that unites us than divides us, and doesn't it, Mr. President? Finally: In the final collapse, even the officers had to clean up after the independent regime. No doubt this will be the same today. Thus, it is essential that political groups be treated here with a vision of future structure. The union wants to create jobs, not talk them down or just subtract the information. The Company wants to invest in innovation and art instead of tax doctors for the big business and the possible support for the tax industry. The Company wants a green and ambitious investment plan that involves the interests of the public, not the interests of selfish interests. Mr. President. Now is the time for such things.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u49	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech. What I want to come in here in answer to it is what it is. The senator began his talk. To me, contradictions were a precaution. Senator. In view of the circumstances that have come up, what comes to the end of the majority of these actions, may we say, temporary unemployment, and the number of jobs that are spent? I thought why. A senator speaks as if there were something more to do than focus on the serious situation that has come up, that employees are losing their jobs. It must be our primary project to support our employment and to protect our jobs. Then it is not surprising that it is reflected in the scope of action. I also wondered about it, because of what. A senator discussed all the suggestions that the smaller part has brought on the development of a fund - law-enforcement projector, in which we accept the sources behind a number of actions that will be displayed in other prime places, if we take the last interest items that were more and less social measures, talking about socialism parties, they are eight-fold more in addition to those measures. I wondered because in a recent OECD paper, the government is encouraged to go back quickly when we get out of this situation in a sustainable way - but we are past the current budget. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u50	Mr. President. If we look at the big numbers in government operations, the $337 billion damages, the $227 billion notices. If we add the unemployment benefits, this year it will turn into 50 billion. There's the situation in government action, these are the big numbers. This is what I've been criticizing. I like the part-change process, I'm just saying we can do a lot more and more like the innovation. I am, for example. talking about the arts and the film industry. It's so pennies, it's a split in the big picture. That's why I don't understand why we don't take that step. Technology fund receives 2 billion while the state funds are reaching 300 billion this year, heading for 200 billion next year. Why, then, are we cheap when it comes to innovation? Why is it necessary for the government to submit proposals for increased donations to tourists, additional contributions to national parishion projects, increased contributions to young pioneers? You have taken suggestions to increase only stress paids for future population in the pandemic. You've dropped here big and small numbers. I'm not saying you should accept all of our suggestions, not at all. But why not agree with some of them? I think you've literally agreed to one suggestion of everyone. I think it's unnecessary shooting in politics, because I know that many of these suggestions are something you can accept. This should not be about government or opposition. It's not a question of right or left, it's just a matter of trying to do the right thing in the nation's difficult situation. That's my only approach. That's why I'm a little rough with the Minister. I'm really trying to encourage him to do some good things. [[The president calls.]] I know he can do more, and I know that we would all benefit if he would do a little more, especially when it comes to innovation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u51	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. A senator with regard to the importance of innovation is that we have never done as much in that situation as it is a general pleasure, a person, from those working in it, creating new things and setting up sceptres that will be of great importance to us for the future. We've never done more than that before. We were only recently - because of it. A senator made financial contributions for the Development Fund, a number of good projects going through it - raising the payoff rate for research and development to 35%. It's going to weigh very heavily into the future. We're now defending our jobs. I want to point 'em. A senator in May's Pentateuch, recently released, reviews these measures of the government and the scope and comparison with the North countries. It accounts for 11.9% of gross domestic product last year. This is more than Sweden, Denmark, and Finland are doing. That's what Norway's doing with her oil fund. Similarly, when we list our actions, they are very similar, and they are numerous, in 20 groups. So I think we and the highest. The government has handled our project in a very handsome and very similar way. Then we must be careful that the next year when we consider that the budget and the laws on public finances set us up, that we are cautious, self-sustained, and that there will be a better time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u52	Mr. President. I think we are. A senator simply explains that we are not defending our jobs by placing the weight and lung of our actions on unemployment benefits and the payment of their resignation. We're not defending jobs. We're facing the problem, we're dealing with unemployment, I know it, but where are the ambitious suggestions for defending jobs, for keeping them alive? That's why the partial improvement was reasonable because it maintained a recruitment relationship. Perhaps it would have been better to expand the part-change route so that instead of making 25% work, people could go to 0% and still keep their job. Of course I know that people will be out of work here, unfortunately. We're not about to save all our jobs. Of course I know, unfortunately, and we all know it. But I just wanted to see more. As with quick implementation; these are 18 billion according to the table. That's not enough. We saw it. Both rural and industrial organizations pointed out that more can be done this year. Companys gave us this list on the budget board. They had other assignments that could be carried out now. I know many projects require action and preparation, etc. but this quick implementation was only included in a pack of actions. There was nothing in the pack two and nothing in the pack of three. I never understood. I always thought that there would be more work here in the next packets, but they are primarily defined by the part-change process and the way I described it. I think that the innovation industry really wants to take more, and we remember that the only sources of reviews at the highest financial level are missing funds so that we already have something that can be strengthened, a project that meets the requirements of the fund. [[The president calls.]] All that is missing is extra funding, and you don't need to talk to many artists who point out that they would truly accept more injections from a movie fund, reimbursement, or increase in artists'salary. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u53	A respectable president. All I want is to intervene in the scope of the operation as a matter of course. A senator turned up and said to lie around 2%. The money issues of the Federal Bank, which appeared a few days ago, are covered well, and we find that the volume measured by less than 352 billion or equal to 11.9% of gross domestic product in the past year and is considered solely for measures that involve the survival of the State Fund equivalent to 4.2% of land production. Like what? paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson came in, which is more extensive than in Sweden, Denmark, and Finland. It is very important, if we want to discuss the scope, that we put it in a context that is proper and comparable to other countries. And so do I, for reason of reason. A senator has arranged for public employment to be a kind of economic response and referred to in international economic and economic publications including It's been encouraged, that I think there will be a clear distinction when people are promoting a government fund to increase its activities. That's what we're doing, and the numbers are evidence of, as I was reading in terms of money, these are no small numbers, we're going over 10% of the last year's domestic product in a special operation right now. There's one thing. That there's something else to show up in the hiring of public employees. Of course, it has to be a natural assessment of whether it is and has been a persistent deficiency in the respective areas. [[The president calls.]] So, at the end of the day, such plans need to have a relationship with the way we are finally going to pay that amount of pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u54	Mr. President. Yeah, we just don't agree. I don't think it's enough. There's the situation in my criticism, and I'm holding most of them in a position of government. There's more here to do. I'm not saying we're doing anything for everybody. But here it is simply possible to do more, and I tried to keep it off with innovation, art, culture, and other things that were so simple and would not cost much but would give much. I know it's headed for the metals. I know. I feel that the focus is primarily on unemployment and reporting. There's big numbers, as I used to know. That's why I'm asking, "What's the future view of the building, where's the spark in Iceland for the future?" How are we going to build here? I know that the government has been in some kind of crisis control. I understand that. But it's been two months now. I still can't see that vision. V.E.G. The minister of finance is at least one of my classmates about whether public employment is valuable or not or whether we should increase it. There's only a ideological difference between these classes. We do not have to tire out about it. I just think it's so obvious that it's an option that we have in our hands, to increase the number of public activity in the aim of improving our ministry. This was even true of the pandemic. We all know we need nurses and medical staff. Today, police officers are fewer than ten years ago. Why are we not able to use this opportunity now and expand this vital work? That's all I was calling for. Of course we have to finance this. That is why we will take this discussion: Will resource costs be raised or decreased? What's the highest tax policy? Minister to raise or will he not raise anything? Is he simply going to cut down? This problem with private and public employment is not to be forgotten that 70% of the country's jobs are in the private sector, so I'm not talking about the government getting over everything, not at all. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And it's not the Union's idea to call for public employment, it's a suggestion that has a sound base all over the world except for Iceland's Independence Party. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u55	A respectable president. Only in the first instance of the fishing expenditure is it claimed to have been reduced, especially during this wrong season. What's happening is that the outcome of the procedure has gotten worse. It returns in lower charges. It is true that in recent years fishing costs have been taken by Icelandic fishing plants. Regarding the innovation, it is reported that we have been in a great struggle to encourage both the research and development work. We've been lifting roofs, raising criteria. As a result, we've led a wide range of research and innovations in Iceland, research and development work. And in particular, in terms of innovation, we have taken this spring meeting of measures that have been greatly praised by the sector and will be used very well, both companies that want to call to themselves promising young people from the university system, but also companies who want to improve their activities in this area. We've been putting into the competition fund, so we've had a variety of actions in behalf of innovation, development and research in Iceland during this spring council. Finally, when it comes to the events, it is always a matter of opinion how far to go. I believe we've lived up to what we said in the beginning that we wanted to do something handsome and do more than less. We haven't had surgery, as sometimes has been done. We have come to terms with going to a corner because we have lived in the best way possible. tax changes have not been made unless we have had various measures to delay the collection of taxes. So it's not right. A senator said that our actions were solely marked by the capture of those who have become unemployed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u56	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister has repeatedly said that he prefers to do more than less. Why is it that students do not see this or agree with that claim? Why is it that societies do not agree with that statement? Why is it that those outside the hide, whether the labor movement or the industrial organization, do not agree with this claim? All right. V.E.G. There is no need for a minister to take note of the Speaker's Speaker, Ágúst Ólafur, but I am a member of the World Parliament's Fundament Committee and I am the rest of the narratives we receive on budgets one and two and on investment campaigns and now on the third budget. We are repeatedly being helped to see that there is a better way to do so. I'm not talking in the air. I'm the highest. A minister to look at the reviews we get from these sources. They point to the same thing as me, that here simply isn't done enough. It's not doing any more than it's doing less. At times, I feel as if we on a financial committee are laying the burden on stakeholders in the community to give us careful comments that I don't even know are being read in the Ministry of finance. We do so very little in the budget because much of it usually does not contribute to much change. I have repeatedly criticized my friends there. Only about the fishing fees. I love this debate, whether the fishing fees went up or dropped. The fishing expenditures were 11.2 billion when this government began, are now 5.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u57	The result.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u58	Yeah, it's changed. This is a reduction, 11 to 5 is a reduction in all the math books I've seen. At present, the cost of fishing is low enough to cover even the cost of the Kingdom's service. Salmon hunters pay more for hunting expenses than they pay for the fishing. [[The president calls.]] And on a well-being basis, a special tax reduction was made to farm companies that bought large ships. [[The president calls.]] These are the facts I'm a Korean in. This need to be kept in mind in the next election.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u59	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill for financial support. In general, the government's actions in general have a variety of words, each appearing to be sufficient or in the right places. But I'm not going to have a general discussion about it. I'm going to concentrate more on the bill we have here. It does not contain many new things. Mainly, there is already a search for sources of information that have been selected. What may, however, be the case. magazines are designed to help with filmmaking. It is disappointing, however, that there is merely a confirmation of promising expenses. There they do not step out and say, " We want to do better. ' We want more assignments on our land, and we're ready to give them money. It has now been promised that Iceland will be opened to tourists and moviemakers on June 15th. It's in two weeks. True, it is to be found that there may be some difficulty in knowing that it is possible to do so. But let us assume that the government is in charge of its promise to its citizens and to the rest of the world that people of this land can be free of anxiety. Then it would be nice for those who come here, e.g. in order to work on film art, they are convinced that they would receive money from the State to do so. They're not the steps here in this money. It is true that in this year the funds can be improved later, but a vision in my opinion would be fine for me to have in such a situation as so many other things. Then I'd just like to cut through the part-way and not discuss it per se. Now it's time to confirm the expenditures it will make, but I would pay for it in a talk at the highest level. Secretary of finance that he was just opening up a little something that should be received and received at the end of it. talking about the enterprises which would employ people of unemployment could still be part-of-the-back, making recruitment easier for companies. I'd like to point out a way that I think is much better and has a more general and better impact on my job. Simply put, it's making it cheaper for companies to hire employees. Here was a suggestion for reimbursement that for people who would be filled with unemployment records, only 25% of insurance bills would be required for a certain period. I think it's a much wiser way to go, and I want to point the top. A minister should consider whether it might be more reasonable in this regard. Secondly, I would like to mention the sources that have to do with a fund about which another bill is involved in the treatment and then a new bill that has to do with changing the law on the New World Fund of employment. Then, on the other hand, I'm talking about Crime, a future fund that has the responsibility of investing in other funds, such as again investing in companies, in innovations, and becoming known as Kía and will soon be named Kía. The other thing is that while this bill is at the same time, it is presented a bill for a change in the law on the New World Fund of industry. It is assumed that they will develop what has been called the support of Kía and that the State will provide funding for investors in innovation companies, which have been difficult for funding in the past few months and linked to Covid. The changes presented here are a few of the disappointments that I think they show that the government groups are not quite idealistic and bold when it comes to innovation. We had this considerable discussion at the time during previous legal adjustments, which protected very good changes in innovation's environment, financial support provided there, and changes in tax recovery systems. Everything improved, but as far as it was burned, money could have gone beyond what was worst for humans to want them to do in a temporary way. It's very bad, and it's not a good thing in any innovation or in any support program for innovation to limit it to two years. There is some delusion in the fact that it is created in a good environment for the future innovation. It's just not like that. That is why I am very disappointed to see 3rd pars. This extra money, it's about the change in warrants. We already have a warrant for entering this new Kría Fund 1,150 million. It is now proposed to cut it this year, of course, to 650 million and to take the rest and put 500 million into the new resources intended for industry. I think it's a bit of a little bit of a plan. First of all, I would like to quote from the top. Secretary of finance: Well, it's now with such financial resources that if they don't get used, they just fall down. If there is a correct estimate that Kía's fund can use only 650 million to invest in other funds, this year it's a loss of authority, isn't it? That's why I don't see why men go that way. I just don't get it. And from that moment on, I realize that there are 500 million people in it. K. access to the New Creation Fund of employment to provide so-called support loans against investors. A real man sees right away in the bill on the Creation Fund and this warrant for him that this is simply not enough money and puts up with a special mechanism of proving to be a demand for sceptre and innovation companies by the modeling bar more than the budget for the operation will reduce the proportion of credit. They're actually drawing in that they know it's not enough. Why do people do this? What vision is this? Why don't people, like some proposals made from the exorbitant, put a warrant for a handsome donation? Then there is the utmost need for all of this to keep viable innovations alive. Then they can be saved. Therefore, the warrant is to be kept in bed, hoping that the situation is not as bad as it is. It just turns out that there are only 500 million people needed, which I allow me to say is not enough. It's also bad for the companies and investors who are going to start and take advantage of this strategy. They start off with their plans and say, "Okay, now I'm bringing 100 million here, and I know the rules say the company gets 100 million. K. A loan from the state. It's been put in the law. That's nice. That's nice. Then, too many people apply to the loans. The investment has decided to place 100 million in the company. The Kingdom can bring 50 million. The leaders for the total funding are smiling. This is not a system that is acceptable to offer. That's not acceptable. I make very serious comments to this, and I believe it, and I trust that it will. The legal committee examined it very closely and made needed adjustments. The reason why it is so important to stress all these aspects of innovation, research, and future developments is obvious. It's obvious to all of us, and I don't think that in itself we realize that we live too monotonously and we have to change it. We just have to do it. It takes a long time, so you must not go too little and too soon. It's wrong to do so. It is simply wrong and will not cause us to change the structure of jobs in the necessary way and we are in our heart, I think, all of whom agree. According to this, and I think that it occurred before in this short speech, surely it is to welcome the steps that have been taken. They're very good, and I don't criticize them, they're just not big enough, and they haven't decided where to handle these matters. Men haven't made it up to themselves, and I think the government has to do it, and we as a community have to do it. We are going to change our employment permanently, and we have to disappear from being in a society with a career that will be so dependent on a single article. We must not allow ourselves to do all we can to prevent that from happening. It always ends with the occurrence of shocks within individual articles. It always does. It's inevitable. That's why it's so bad, and we're way too much of a price on what it means to our economy and to what quirk of Icelandic society will take. We have to stop accepting that this is just our destiny because we're so special in the ocean and we have fish and tourists, and that's the way it has to be. We can't. I'm a little down on the fact that I'm so disappointed that people don't want to understand. But this is 1st. ... andwhat. The legal committee is going to review the case. I believe that, and I trust that's where we'll take at least that. This piece that is here and fix it so that it will be useful to what it has to come to.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u60	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir For a fine talk, Valdimarsson Valdímdar's son, did well to review what the bill contains and the comment given. A senator does these suggestions. I'd like the first one in my previous answer to come into the movie remuneration for a while. A senator went well. We agree on the importance of these refunds and this global arrangement in competition with the universe on these projects. I think it was a very successful step at the time, for then the forward party stood for this. I can say with what. A senator with that and a chief. The financial and economic minister found himself in his background to be able to investigate the arrangement, how to administer the payment and financial resources. I'm going to leave a question, though. A senator has himself answered his own remark, because we have at least one comment. After offering more financial contributions in the fall. I wonder because there is so much uncertainty, whom we can receive, and how, etc. Is it not right for us to evaluate it? I think this suggestion, as it shows up here, to clean up what has been raised, is a very strong indication of willingness to meet the demand, to-to-come, on grounds that enable us to receive it. I think it's working for a financial committee to get food on it and face it in the near future, and I think it's the common will of all of us in it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u61	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I am in itself absolutely aware that it is necessary to clear up what has been promised and decided, and of course, it is very good to do. I can state that there is uncertainty, and all of us are trying to eliminate the uncertainty, and it can be said, of course, that a financial committee can state that it feels that it is necessary to make sure that we can do the work that is going to take place here and that the funds will be granted. But first, what? A senator mentioned the uncertainty of what would happen in the next few months, and I agree completely with it. It may not be the topic of a financial committee, but it is, of course, the political agenda to try to minimize all this uncertainty. It has come to this point, and I think I have mentioned it in my talk class, that it is probably done with good intentions to try to minimize this uncertainty by making promises or by seeing what will happen in the near future. One such promise is to open the land in two weeks. So it is sad, as I said, that it will seem to me that there is going to be a great deal of trouble. Should we tell the moviemakers in a foreign country who realized that Iceland would be open on June 15 and it would just be here a few days later, that it could not be found until July 15th or August 15 or something? [[The president calls.]] That's not good. [[The president calls.]] But that may not be a subject. The budget board.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u62	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Yeah, we do. The legal committee will just go to this job. We call for an assessment of how it all goes. With all the uncertainty, if I'm personally asked about this situation and this particular project, I don't think we should be allowed to receive these people. We're here to greet people who are coming here for work. It will automatically depend on specific habits of infection without being screened on the border. I think the same thing is possible about these projects. But that's my personal position, I'm saying it. This should be considered in a completely different context when making such decisions and in consultation with the competent authorities, etc. Hv. A senator came on the part-change route. I'm now one of those people who thinks the part-change process is very successful. I like the ideologies behind a proposal as a matter of fact. A senator was motivated. We are on this assignment to defend our jobs, and all positive motivations of this kind are good and should be considered. I just want to call for an attitude. Because we are defending our relationship with the employee, a senator and a requisite on the conditions that have been discussed, we lay down all the conditions on the companies that bite the employee. It's a bit of a special discussion, and somehow all mixed up and turned upside down in this. I'll agree that it will be our mission. Most index funds are almost fully invested, and it will certainly not be difficult to get these funds into many good projects. There are two things I want to draw out. I think this fund should be built up in a few years to become 7How8 billion, if I remember correctly, and then, of course, it's always very important that we have a wide variety of environments. [[The president calls.]] This is one way that is being made up, but we need to consider in the context of how large this fund is and may become. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u63	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answer, which is basically in two. First, I'll start with the part-change process and the conditions being set. It is a difficult average, and, of course, a government fund cannot open its doors, and people walk about there as they please. We're in a hurry. At the same time, however, care must be taken when conditions are placed that are as clear as possible and that are clear as to what is considered the most important thing. We have emphasized this, and fortunately, many agree that everything is on the table, that humans know exactly who are and what they get. It's very important. We have not liked many of the conditions that have been discussed, and we have even been asked who can get such. We just think that humans are going too far and that they forget the overall objective that these measures are quick and accessible. Of course, these systems have such systems as all others, that some will abuse them. There must then be an efficient monitoring system that must only remain behind, to catch them, since we do not want a system, either this or anyone else, to be abused. Just a minute about the tern. I agree with what. Senator, let's go over this very carefully for now. A financial committee, and I believe it, and I trust we can work something out in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u64	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill for financial support, that's a third of the budget. What provokes a little bit of a little bit of aglow to this situation is the vast sums of money that are under there. As mentioned, there are 34 billion in partials, 27 billion in pay on notice, and 2 billion in payment for the persons under a contagion. What is even more surprising is that we pay the money, and most of the money goes on to facilitate notice. There's only 27 billion there. If we put it in context with what we will improve, for example. We've got 2,120 million filmmakers, it's just pennies. That's less than 10% of what they're putting on notice. But for the rest, we're depositing money to expand our jobs, promote tourism, because filmmaking promotes it. A large group of foreign people come to work on this. The group needs lodging, food, and people need to be hired; actors, assistants, techs, so that we put in money that comes back and can return many times. That's why it's kind of incomprehensible that we shouldn't put more into this. Why not 5 billion, even 10 billion, just to make sure that this is where we make yellow root? Netflix, a major film producer and player, has been made clear that they have been operating in two countries around the world, Iceland and South Korea. This particular area, such as the filmmaking, also offers that these groups can be isolated. The risk should be relatively low. Besides, we have to watch that in the fear-free situation that has gone out of Covid, the situation is that there's a huge demand, and will be even more demand, depending on the factors, by movies. As a result, there is also a huge demand to find and to find the right place and the right conditions to produce programs and movies. We're completely elected to it, absolutely, apart from what we often forget in this context, that what has usually put us on the map is just the movies and elements, nature, which are causing people to come to the country. Then there is another big surprise. It's the funding set up in Krea, the wand, and the innovation fund. That's where we're putting money in innovation. We're trying to promote jobs, innovation, thinking, try to keep up with innovation. The spade companies are exactly what we're supposed to focus on, we're supposed to do what we can do. But no, it's only 650 million. Why not 6.5 billion? Why do we hold back from putting money on what comes to work and parish and improving our situation, but do not hesitate to pump incredible amounts of money into such. Is that what you're paying for? 27 billion there. I would have liked to see the exact same amount go into promoting society, because it tells itself that we have to do something. We can't just have part-time benefits. We can see what's been bombarded now, the tabloids, 400 people in the Blue lagoon, 100 air traffic operators. It's coming right at us. That's why we have to start thinking about solutions, not things like that. There's something else about this that worries me. It's about the part-change process. It's been shown to be cheating. There's nothing unnatural about that. More than 99% of people are honest and are not cheating. But there's in all systems some zero point some percent, ready to cheat. We've seen that, the latest example is in today's hour of holding in Malta, where 20 employees in part-way work are involved. I don't know if there's any cheating in there, but this can't be normal and shouldn't be true. We also know that a certain group is trying to raise the pay, making all kinds of things in an effort to get more out of the system. But this is a small group, a zero point some percent of the people in there. But what gets me most involved is that there is no big increase in control, financial monitoring, that property companies in low tax areas, or others are not abusing the system. No, it should only be handled sometime in the fall. It just doesn't work. It is impossible to allow itself to be allowed. I'll put it in context of one thing that's been repeated. Those are the people who are supposed to be cheating on the social security system, on disability. What is done there to prevent the person from cheating on the system? That's where we're talking about people cheating into very poor people. Imagine that! As I've always said, if anyone tries to cheat in there, he's really sick and he's supposed to be in there and he's got every right to it. It's so stupid to try to cheat in because it's a hell of a process you have to go through, one, two, three years even to get in. It's a humiliating process, really humiliating. But what happens when you get into the system? How does the surveillance work there? What do we have in the law and in the rules of monitoring those who have disability and have entered the system? Yes, they are obliged to give information about a mate's income, and if they dare not to do so, the benefits can be taken away. These are sick people who have been trying to save themselves and try to get into the system. They are severely punished. It's still in the law, and I don't think it's a clear violation of the personal protection law to blend a mate into this. Would we like to tell the individuals and others who apply for some relief or pay on a deadline: Do you need to bring your spouse's income on the table, and if you do not, do you not get the help of the partial benefits? We wouldn't even think about it. Everything would be crazy. But it's okay to do this to sick people. This is really weird. Then, in this context, the effect of Covid-19, on an individual who loses his job, is mentioned as having an impact on unemployment or partial improvement and needed and should be saved. At the same time, however, a person who is applying for disability gets into disability and receives pay from the government's insurance agency. But that's how you get it, it takes even more time for him to get his pension money, and for some reason he doesn't get money from pension funds as soon as he starts getting paid from the State Department. He won't be paid until even a year later. Then he'll get a one-up of 1,500 million dollars. K. From the pension fund. What happens then? I can tell you that because I've had experience with it. I've been through it. It sucks to be in such a situation with four children, to be paid up to 1,500 million. K. What happens then? Yeah, insurance agencies send an account of 1,250 million. K. She'll take 80% of this back. He could have 20 percent. But what about this man? Yes, he has used this money to pay off debt because he has experienced such financial problems during this time, losing income and money. And it goes to zero. Is there a rescue package for him? Anything in the spirit of pay on notice or partial improvements? No, all he has to do is tighten his belt and save himself. He needs to line up after meals or otherwise manage himself. I hope he's got some savings, and then he's gonna have to walk on it. We talk about equality, fairness, that everyone is equal to law. How on earth can we allow ourselves to have things like this, and at the same time make us believe that everyone is equal? It's a long way from here. The worst part of this, if we look at this money and the previous ones - I see a little bit of light there, that's these 20,000 bucks. observed in the treatment of microplasia. Let's put these 20,000 bucks down. in the context of our giving at the same time of 5,000 bucks. To all the people of the country, 18 years of age and older - 5,000 at a rate of 20,000. to largely, 70%, below poverty limits. Nothing else should be done. There's a wind start, groceries rise, everything goes up, and so is what this government has completely ignored; the prices of the loans rise. About 20 million. K. In two, three months, by the fourth hundred thousand, the level of deposit has gone up. They refuse to see it. That's all right, because those who have these priceless loans are the ones who have mentioned among their hands and who have the worst interest rates and also the worst loans and who can't change it. The loans are raised and their property is reduced. Then it's the older cities. What's been in the budget so far for older citizens? Not a stick, a dollar, a penny for them. The whole thing could be read out, but there's nowhere to find a dollar for an older citizen. At the same time, older citizens are out in society to pick up their medication and pay for their pay on serials. Why on earth? How can we allow ourselves to make such an offer? Let's be clear, don't try to say there's no money on this and that it's too expensive. If we look at the billions of them and watch that they are 60 billion a year on the decline of older citizens and microplies, I don't need to be told that there's no money to see that these people who have the worst in our society get up, get up above the poverty line, don't have to wait in line for food, don't have to pay for them to pay on serials, and don't have to tighten the sole. We're supposed to make sure that, if we want to do things well, we're going to put our hands together and wipe out this disgrace. You see, it's a disgrace to society. At the same time we're shoveling billions, we're supposed to make sure that it's done, and I'll bet you that it's probably worth just a hundred and twenty-five5% of those billions of people going out here, making sure that nobody in Iceland has to live in poverty.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u65	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I cut by one of his talks, which I just want to have a place to talk to him about. He spoke of the misuse of the part-change process, which I truly agree that it is necessary to be completely protected now. We're looking up at a stationary company that has made good use of this route but that has not needed it, and this, of course, should appeal to community responsibility. We have, but unfortunately, some of these companies have failed to show the responsibility they have in these matters. I wanted to ask you why. A senator on one point, in fact, it's not quite a part of this discussion here, but even though he mentioned the misuse of the social security system and people are cheating on disability, I think he put it that way. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: How does he picture such a situation, and he knows how monitoring is done in other countries when men are betraying reforms for so - called frauds? I now specifically asked the Ministry of Social Affairs about this in a few months ago on a financial committee, what sort of surveillance would be on the part of a tax fraud, whether there was a special office in that office that had an opinion of reform. The answer was that it was not, but it was an answering machine, and relief fraud could be reported. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: He knows what this is like, for example. In the North? Now there's a lot of money at stake, and it's totally unnatural for people to cheat on the social security system, like that. A senator rightly mentioned. Does he know what it's like? How does he support himself in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. Birgir Þórarinsson's request for the inquiry. She certainly has a right. Not long ago, or a few years ago, a button was set up at the government insurance agency. We called him a fraud's button and there you could put in and tell about traitors, anonymously, and you needed nothing to explain to yourself. Peritoneal protection was charged with this. This occurred after a huge debate following a report of fraud, but I recall that it was in Denmark applied to Icelandic standards and published there. And that discussion was so strange. The conclusion was that there were billions of frauds in this blessed system, which was a mess. The government's insurance agency went to the stitches, as if they were looking for a needle in a haystack, to find the traitors. And what did they find? They found a few individuals. What were they betraying? Yes, they were betraying on the basis of child reforms, enrolling, or getting out of wedlock. There were a handful of Icelanders who were found on that basis, but there was not one person who was cheating into this system to profit from it. That's what it says. You can't profit from cheating on your social security system because of disability. It's hopeless. It's always a loss.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'm also asking because I think the percentage is a bit on the wrong foot, it's in the range of 1105%, i.e. It's a tax fraud in the insurance system. I've heard this number from those who know it. If continued, it will take ten years for about one year. 90 billion in this system. If we look at 1%, it's 9 billion in credit fraud, which is naturally an enormous amount. I'd like a guess. Senator on one. Now I know that Switzerland was approved in a national law code for not so long a law on the control of fraud. It is in that operating is a special detective who is only focus on fraud. Besides, I know someone like that. from the United Kingdom, there is considerable monitoring. As far as I've gotten some information here, there seems to be a very little check here. I remind you, if any of you cheat out of your social security system, like disability benefits, you'll probably take on those who really need it. So there is much to do in overcoming this problem. How can you tell? A senator? Does he believe that we would create some kind of system, such as. is in Switzerland, where it would only be monitored regularly? It's something you would have to put up with in a natural way. Would it be informative to have his opinion on this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u68	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the questions. Yes, the betrayal. If we take 1105%, you've never seen anything, these are numbers taken from the air, maybe from other systems, let's say in Switzerland. I don't think there's so much here. But just 1%, let's say that's enough. But who are the traitors? Let's just watch it. Then I say, fraud is not quite the same as deceit. Betrayal may be an emergency. I think it's an emergency - let's say a married couple who both run into disability. What happened? If a person in a marriage is experiencing disability, he will not be satisfied. If two people get into a life of disability, neither of them will get a living replacement. However, if a person lives alone, he or she will get household satisfaction. If you are unmarried and you are an invalid, you must not get married, you will be punished. But then it is also true that those who get involved - say that the person is an invalid and realizes that it will be easier for him to live by divorce, then he will have a household supplement, more child support, and perhaps he will survive. He sees that with these preparations, he does not have to stand in line for food. I would say that this is the person's emergency right to try to provide for his family and try to save himself. But this may be called fraud in the reform system. But this is what I call fraud to the government, not to see that these individuals can live with honor in the system, and that they don't have to resort to this emergency.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u69	Mr. President. I listened to a talk. paritaprevir Guðmundur of Ingi Kristinsson on bill for budget law, and I have to admit that I had a bit of trouble understanding the nature of the bill. A senator would be taking into account his position on the actions being made here on which the largest spending team is about to ensure the survival of people who have lost their livelihood as a result of the Covid virus pandemic, i.e. with the part-authorities in which there is an extension to ensure that they maintain recruitment relations with companies and therefore have future work, and then pay their pay for post notice, which is so that companies can get more involved and continue to provide for the job. Hv. A senator spoke of a great deal of money here. I'd like to ask you what. A senator is clear whether he is opposed to the operation. It is true that all avenues of abuse can be taken advantage of. However, a senator himself noted that it was a very smaller thing that did so. I just want it to be said: doesn't the senator think there are important measures here to ensure that people who have lost their support will continue to face these challenges that we all hope are temporary?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, I have to say, as is the fact that I speak of a treasure on the grounds that I feel that there are enough money to put in certain things and not others. That's just what I meant. I wasn't saying that I'm sorry for the money for those who are working part-time or on notice, that they get that money to survive. It's a long way from here. But I also comment that it has been forgotten to secure the checkup, which may be understandable at the pace that has been put to the discussion. I feel sad when a workplace, or someone who's supposed to be under surveillance, says that they're going to be monitoring in the fall, they want more time, and they're just going to do it some time in the future. Then it can be too late, then the money will be gone, even from abroad. We must always start somewhere. I put this in context to the strict requirements of the social security system and the security clearances there. It's a little out of the question here that there's not been a proper release from surveillance warrants yet. We are, for example. I've approved a whistle-blower law. Let's say we have a big business where something weird's going on. Someone finds out and thinks they're wasting money. I find it very strange that he can't tell us right away in a simple way. However, it seems possible in the social security system, which should therefore be possible in other systems for monitoring.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u71	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answer, and he believes it's important that we put it right here. A senator believes that the measures involved are important, even though he presents his viewpoints about how the surveillance is conducted. I would like to make it clear that, of course, it has been written into the original conditions that the companies need to accept that they are using the means that governments are putting financial resources into. Then, in time, it must become evident. whether or not the enterprises have held to the conditions set there. Of course, they need to keep track of the freshness of the alternative. I wholeheartedly agree with this, and in fact, I believe that there is a problem that can be done as far as possible about the practicality being followed here. Hv. A senator has been given a talk about the benefits of both microenergy and older citizens, and I agree with him that these terms need to be improved. But I would like to ask. A senator whether he can direct me to some sort of example that the government has actually infiltrated the system and that makes it desperate or that others rely on the social security system are less effective in their current situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u72	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir's Question. Yeah, I know an example. Sadly, there have been cases of insurance. I know one example where there was an IP number abroad and there are some things that are ugly. I don't have all of them, but I'm sorry. There are also cases of invalids who are abroad attending medical services abroad. Later, they receive their payment, and their situation has changed for the success of the gang. We know how close we can remember. An increase in the number of patients in the number of treatments, which makes this situation very bad, is a 103/45% reduction in their recovery, so it's a very bad thing to do. On the surveillance warrants and other things, yeah. paritaprevir Þórarinsson's nest spoke earlier of a 15-5% fraud in the system. If we apply it to the system we've created here, and if you think, as mentioned, that all these rescues are worth 300 billion, then we're talking about maybe 31⁄215 billion fraud. There's a lot of money and a lot more money than I could ever imagine it would be in the social security system. Today, corporations on Malta, in taxes, use resources, and we know some of the cases involving abuse of the system, some of which have even gone and paid back. They're designed to protect us, and that's why we should treat them evenly and prevent all deceit. [[The president calls.]] These are not many cases we should be able to prevent them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u73	Mr. President. With this bill for financial support, we have brought in the third budget of the measures planned to try to minimize the damage we are facing as a community due to the virus epidemic. We in the media have supported every proposal in the government that aims to minimize the damage and, of course, hope to benefit fully. But we've also had additional proposals, adjustments to the funds. We have advertised our proposals in the media in an effort to reach the government's ears, and we have sent e - mails to the prime minister of the United States so that we have worked hard to make it as possible. Unfortunately, the government has not given enough attention to our opinion, and it has been brought to the fore that the government groups have submitted all proposals of the government. It is sad, of course, that there has been a consultation on the part of the government parties in this proposal. We're all in the trouble we're trying to get out of, which is temporary, and hopefully we'll see the end of them as soon as possible. First, I want to stop on page 30. 10 on the bill. The part-change process is being extended, and this bill is actually just a procedure that has been introduced. There's nothing new about it, as it were, except maybe film making. It was fine, and it had already been discussed. What I wanted to do about the part-change process is the conditions that need to be there for a company to be able to use it for their employee. There's a lot of money here. That's about 34 billion bucks. That's what you're supposed to wear. This approach is being extended well, I'll agree, and of course it's important. However, we need to avoid misuse of it. It's only been discussed here. Defending jobs is a great understanding of the community. I'm a member of the Central Party. It's very important. Similarly, there is no patience in the community for the misuse of this remedy. It's a lot of taxpayers' money. It is also of interest to note that the Agency has received at least some tips on the work programme. Three forms of misuse of the partial improvement process. Note, too, that the State has put no money on the watch for this abuse. In view of the enormous amount of money involved, there is something special. It may be noted that in Sweden approximately 100 taxologists investigating the current partial improvement pathway. There is a great need for us to put some money on the watch. I think it's clear to me that the pressures in the Labour Organization are enormous and that she can't really care for this, at least. the situation now. Another problem is that people may find it difficult to step forward and report that these measures are being abused, simply because of the economic situation in the community, and many people are concerned about their own interests and are even afraid to be laid off. People don't want to act, and there are an amazing number of people in the community who are concerned about their survival. Let us not forget that. Of course it's always been said that this situation has no parallel, etc., but the reality is that there has never been so much unemployment in this country in such a short time, so fast. So it is very important to try to protect jobs where possible, and this is one of those ways. All we have to do is ensure that it will not be abused, and I remind you that the resource is intended to save companies that calm their uncle because of the epidemic and the consequences he has had on the business. This option is not intended to better establish enterprises which do not have a major loss of income because of the viral epidemic. You're right to keep it up. It's the policy of tightening the requirements, and I think it's necessary in this context that the Committee carefully applies the stitches of what needs to be fixed and there will be no gaps in these materials. But then I'll say as far as I can. In the discussion, the secretary of finance earlier said that the conditions must not be strict that they become difficult to follow. The average gold must be found, like the highest. Minister mentioned, and I'd like to agree with that. What I miss in this money, which is not in it, is that we need to focus on those who have already lost their jobs and who are trying to figure out how to deal with them, such as. direct them to study and see if some form of injury is not right in order to study articles that lack people. We can then use the position we are today to benefit the future. Many new classes, such as nurses, need to be motivated to study these articles. Of course, this will cost some money, but in the end the benefits are great. When we discussed a pack of operations, I especially welcomed temporary jobs for students of 18 years and older in cooperation with my rural society. It was a very good assignment. However, we in the Middle East would have wanted to expand it to the private companies, that they could hire people in the summer and into the fall with the support of the State. Since then, I've been talking a lot about how we've increased study and employment options for jobseekers who have been out of work for some time, even out of work for the virus epidemic. They should not be forgotten so that they can have a priority in what governments have to do to increase their jobs. It needs to be added, and I would have wanted to see in these additional budgets to expand the resources to those who are unemployed and who have been doing so for even some time. They may come into some kind of temporary government resources in cooperation with their communities. There's something else I miss in this bill, Mr. President. There's no mention of locals. It has been observed that rural areas have been too small to consult. In this massive drop of income and their budget increase, very little has been discussed with the rural communities in terms of government resources. It's clear that some societies are just so bad, unemployment is that much, such as. In the South, especially in rural areas in the South, there is difficulty in maintaining a legal service. And in that case, the state funds have to intervene. We've been speaking in the Middle East about the need for special operations to be made to the rural community because they are experiencing economic, economic, economic, like everyone else. True, it is already positive that the rural community can use a reimbursement system on a treatable tax system for performance, but I think it may be seriously considered whether or not to bring direct contributions to the rural community. I think something in the Northland has become a reality. Since then, the wealth of rural society has suffered a significant loss of income that somehow needs to be met, and we must not forget that about 80% of the rural population is a salary. The representatives of Reykjavík, New York, arrived here at the former level of a legal hearing and stressed the need for a state's funds. The lack of employment in Reykjavík was about 18% in April, so this affects a large number of people, and many are even on their way to getting financial help from the local community. There is a large group that is entering, resulting in substantial expenses for their rural communities. So I would have liked to see some operations for my rural society in this budget here. Besides, I would've wanted more action for the Southnes. There were 250 million special support, and of course it was a good thing, but it is not enough. That's exactly what I asked. A senator and chairman, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, in terms of two extras, reminds me of whether he felt that this would help face the massive unemployment in the South. It's more than 25% in Southnes and it's headed up to 30% in Smokejanestown, which are just disaster numbers, as it were. Hv. A member of the council concluded that there was no longer much unemployment in the area, and I agree with him on that. It is clear that we have to face the rural communities that have so much unemployment and the people involved. In the autumn, interest has now been given, and the time leading up to it is precious. That's why I thought this should have brought something to these rural communities. I'm sorry it isn't. Finally, I want to remind you that it is necessary in all of this to consider whether there is no greater efficiency in the management procedures. The problem with these measures has been that this has been overemphasized. This is significant because time is now precious, and at that time some company could simply deposit. I mention the bridge loans as examples that have taken way too long between their approval and their release in financial institutions. Now we have approved highly relevant medium-sized support loans and must not be reduced in the same way to implement them. There's something to look at. I emphasize in the Committee's work, as I mentioned at the outset, that the conditions will be reviewed and that these measures will not be abused. It's a pleasure to see that the State Accounting has taken an initiative in this process. She'll expect to report the outcome in a report tomorrow, if I recall correctly. I am very pleased that Government Accounting took the initiative to take a look at the part-change route because there's a huge amount of money in the cards, as I mentioned, and the need to get it into the leading committee work what the eyes of our surveillance agency, the Government Accounting Centre, sees it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u74	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to change the law on the Newborn Fund of employment. The bill means that a new provisional principle is added to the laws that replace the implementation of the so - called JCC on the part of the New World Translation Fund. Supporting Japan is part of the government's economic actions to cope with negative effects from the Koreans epidemic. The decision was presented in another government support package and is thought to be an resistance to the sceptre company because of their difficult circumstances at this time. The options include the ability of sceptres and innovation companies to request a government-based counterlocation loan to meet investment funding. Thus, the government will lend loans to viable wands that can obtain funding from investors in return. The loans that will be granted will be in the same terms and financing of investors and will be subject to the same conditions. The loan will be in the form of a bond of change rights and will carry the same interest rate as investment funding to the relevant enterprise. The loan will be extended to three years or to the same time as investing if it is in the form of a short loan. The government will thus face the funding of private investors at the same rate as if the loan is not paid at the loan time, it will become part of the relevant cutting line. As such, the operation is a first step towards the cooperation of the public and private investors with financing of sceptical and innovation companies that will continue to grow with the development of Kía ◯ sceptre and innovation funds that will take place later in the year. It is important to support sceptical and innovation companies during the uncertain times and in the predictable contractions. The tenor and innovation companies play an important role in employment and create intelligent value, as there are many of our most valuable companies today in the foundation of a research firm that started out as sceptical companies. The financing of sceptres is to some extent different from that of an established conventional enterprise, in which their management generally does not have much to do with securable property that can provide the basis for financing. Thus, these companies are often funded with variable bonds, not conventional loans of insurance. At present, a number of sceptre companies are faced with a secure funding or a long time ago have been put on ice because of the epidemic. Exploitive companies are sensitive, and often they may not be allowed to pay much for their funding. It is therefore important that the State cooperates with the companies in a way proposed to support the Crea but the secretary of finance recommended here for a bill to be added to a budget of more than 500 million. K. magazines are given to the project. A respectable president. I have earlier emphasized the importance of innovation for the powerful responsored economy from the valley in which we have entered. There is still much uncertainty ahead, but it is clear that we as a community will be able to increase innovation in all areas, as well as in new material - riming companies, the future will be bright in Iceland. Support-Createry, along with increased donations for Technical Development Funds, increased reimbursement of research and development costs, the Kría Kría Kross and innovation funds, which I have already recommended for the Commission here at the General Assembly, as well as other activities designed to promote research and innovation, all to believe that in this country will provide a basis for innovation and pioneer work, and increased research, which will, in time, create more valuables in the form of intelligent innovation of innovation. This should be kept in mind when considering the need to create increased jobs in the innovation sector, but the government has strongly emphasized that this country will create a favorable environment for research and innovation and provide considerable funds for the budgets of the current year, as well as the budget adopted at the World Parliament during the past few weeks. Other than that, I refer to the bill's article on the details of how a supportive stuðnings-Kría will operate. I hope that measures will work well, since preparation is advanced and loans will be paid to finance sceptre management before long. After this discussion, I suggest that the matter be passed through 2nd. ... andwhat. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u75	President. I welcome the bill, the another 500 million in innovation. That is exactly what we need to do to keep them alive and to prepare for future growth. Eventually, a longer-term economic growth is based on innovation. There's one thing I wanted to draw attention to and ask the highest. Minister to: Today the procedure is as follows: Section 5. makes decisions on how the fund is involved in investments, loans and responsibilities, as well as decisions on insurance and elections. It seems to me that the process is changing when it comes to this 500 million, as stated at 1 Corinthians 15: 33. ... withauthority of the President's permission: A secretary is allowed to negotiate with the Organism Fund for the implementation of the tournament to the sceptres and innovation companies on investing to the relevant enterprises, which will be provided for financing in 2020. In such a contract, it should include: The criteria, terms, and management of the front bar should be established. Today, there are procedures for how this is done and what the conditions are. There's a cabinet minister making some new conditions. A minister is faced with a certain temptation problem, these conditions can be tailored to certain companies, making them more suitable for one enterprise than for another. We know that such conditions can be tailored to specific things. It is a temptation to pass by. Then there's a new government that I'm talking only after. But regarding the conditions: Why is it not possible to include them, the conditions that are already there? How does a minister think that? And how might she think that the temptation to engage in temptation could be avoided, i.e. that a minister might do this in ways that differ from what might be best for innovation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u76	Mr. President. This is only before 2020. The reason we have a special loan board for this rather than that it's going through the NSA is because the NSA is independent. There may be potential conflict of interest if the NSA management is investing in the relevant enterprise or otherwise. We are trying to have the criteria as objective as possible so that the discretion of the Committee is not at risk of borrowing and not borrowing. The requirements need to be objective, so that if an enterprise has borrowed from its investors a set of the committees - this enterprise is an enterprise that has been funded by technical development funds or reimbursement of research and development costs, so that it is a definition of a new creation company - the same amount, however, by minimally, in order to prevent the possibility of misuse, or a climax. We don't know how much interest we'll have in borrowing these things. The rate is at the market, so they are not government support. We're just borrowing markets. In fact, it is not a special impulse to receive a counter-regument loan, so we are drawing it up to the point that they are actually for companies in some kind of distress because loans are not the benefit of self-stimulatement, not just for those who are in such need. And also, if they can't pay, they have a government possession into a company that's not something the companies would normally call out for under normal circumstances. We're trying to draw this up to the point of not making much thought to the committee. But someone has to go over it. It can't be the board because the NSA is an independent investor, and it can't be drawn up to be any incentive to apply because the state is just there with money, but is this for a company that is in real trouble, needs it and needs to be paid back and that they can't, then, it's, like, changing bonds.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u77	President. That sounds really good, and maybe it's a question of whether it's the highest. The minister is not only very open to the fact that when the Economic and Business Committee--I thought this happened to the committee I have in and that's why I came up here--is to work the committee might do something with these conditions that will eventually be entered into a contract between the Minister and the NSA, and perhaps in cooperation with a minister, that by getting better in and better framed what they'd look like, just up to the fact that moral hazard is not present and generally trustworthy state as to the general well-being of the money. Otherwise, I thank the Minister for the answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u78	Mr. President. We're working together on the conditions, and I don't know any better than that the conditions they're about to present are probably what they're now for the Committee of Congress. Of course, we do not want to be the source of temptation or conflict of interests. I just want the transparency to be as great as possible, that it lies just for why we're doing this, what the requirements to meet and that the NSA management is not taking it because an NSA property company can be asking for a loan. At that time, paying certain loans will be a potential interest in the government. Therefore, we are taking it aside, but we are hiding the Biodiversity Fund of this sector because it is a supporting network, also to use the support systems available, and to manage funds, so that most of it becomes useful to companies in trouble.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u79	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ministers for the past and the bill, which I believe, in many respects, is very well and well needed. What I would like to ask first is that this was only a matter of terms for the loan. It caught my attention in a bill for a budget, which is talking about the gender-making process, that it is said that the sum does not affect or alter any condition of the interests of the sex, but it says here, by permission of the president: ▪ The world's development to the New World Fund of Business and Crime could possibly contribute to improving equality as long as there is thought to be a gender basis, we will extend the tournament bar to the sceptres and investment policies of Kía. The first question is, How will a minister apply himself in making such laws, and what would they be like? Then I'd like to direct another question to the highest level. Minister. Now, of course, I know it's one of the Covid premieres, and now it's assumed that the source only applies to financing in 2020, but I'm still wondering if in their case it would be unwise to extend the time, e.g. to my next year to try to make sure that, as most companies, they are benefiting from the options, which are certainly good. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u80	Mr. President. One is an investment policy for Korea, and it is not available. But conditions for the protest bar are, as I mentioned, the objective that I don't expect there to be some particular will in relation to the founder or company management with respect to gender reasons. But as I mentioned earlier, we do not know how interested we will be in the budgets, whether there is a high demand or not a great demand or what the companies are, or how founders or executives are appointed there, how the gender motive is. In general, we are still trying to get it into such a way that more women start a business and they take more money in Iceland. We are not far enough in that regard. In general, the prosthesis can be put into place, that there are somehow more ratios than in several other sectors in Icelandic society, so that by supporting the overall innovation sector, these proportions can be balanced in some way. But the criteria for the counter-contractors will be objective. I don't suppose there will be any particular gender concept there, i.e. that ratios are so that certain companies are more able to get cross-cutting than others, rather being different. Investmentism and Crime are another issue that has not yet been fully established and has not been given rulership or such, since the matter is still before the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u81	Mr. President. I understand the minister's answer so that there are more and less smiling hopes that will appear in the chapter on a sensory budget. There's no other way to understand that. The other question I raised to the highest. A minister was asked if there was a long - term consideration of this strategy. A minister may enter it in his second answer. Then I think about the money. V.E.G. A minister correctly admitted that it is difficult to know how much this will be or how it will be. On the other hand, the budget is expected to divide the funds set out in the Kristian Fund between this reserve and the Kristian Fund, which I believe is delirium. I also wondered, " Is it not wrong to go only 500 million now? ' This should be higher because the bill's report suggests that these loans are likely to need to be cut down, i.e. if there's still extra demand, they'll have to cut their paths. It is very bad when investors decide to lend a loan and assume that they will obtain a certain amount from the state on the same loan. If it turns out that it needs to be cut down, this situation will immediately change. V.E.G. The secretary of finance said that financial resources were that if they were not fully used, they would fall. I ask, " Wouldn't it make more sense to have that warrant above 500 million? ' K. to have a table for a table?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u82	Mr. President. So I'm gonna answer the first question about whether this time needs to be longer, I'm sure that's the case. But, of course, this is the thought of a Covid operation this year, and hopefully there will be forethought and uncertainty that it will not need to enter my next year. Of course, we don't cut the Kría ratio down to raise the budget, but we're raising the Krista amount from 150 million estimated to 650 million, so we're raising the budget that goes up in Krista about half a billion compared to the previously planned amount. Then we're putting 500 million. K. in the protesting loans and to some extent, blind to the ocean as to the interest, demand, and need of such measures. But I'm very pleased with that number, 500 million, and then it turns out what it's gonna be like. Of course, there is additional support. If you have a good idea in your hands in a situation like this, investors should see their best interests in meeting the starters in the existing situation. Everyone has to work on it so that the government's resources play an additional role and should not be a prerequisite for the investor. So I'm really happy with the change. We talked about 150 million. K. This year in Kría, and today we have 1,150 million, of which 650 are in Kría, and 500 million are involved in the projection or support of Croatia. I'm very pleased with that amount, and these changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u83	Mr. President. As shown in the case of the highest. Minister, and in answer to her, I believe this bill can be added and fixed. I think it's the best. A minister easily slipped by what I did to talk about, which concerns the expectations of those who are going to look for it. Getting investors to lend money or invest in a new business can be a serious task for a innovation company, a starter firm, whatever the unsuspecting firms may be. It may take a long time. When investors make their decision, they base it on some plans for the future of that company and expect to put the money to what they believe to be enough to keep the company alive. Therefore, if investors are willing to bring 100 million into an enterprise, he will do so in the belief that another 100 will come back. If it turns out that only 50 million respond, all the reasons are smiling for investing the investment's decision. This is of utmost importance. That's why I want to repeat and repeat how important it is that such measures are predictable and can be relied on. The message that you receive a demonstration is dependent on the fact that there is only limited funds, and the help will only be used, is not a method to be used in these cases. It's just really defective. I challenge it. A committee that brings up this fine subject for discussion, as well as a financial committee, to make these improvements. I don't feel so good about it. A newborn minister has no better understanding of how such matters need to be handled, and I am disappointed that she declares that this is just an almost perfect plan, and 500 million must be enough. Besides, if you're just looking, go somewhere else. Then it's just as well to get out of this situation if you can't count on it. That's my firm opinion. I think it's very important that people understand what it means to try to establish a innovation company. If the Kingdom is to come to the aid of the State, it must be done in a way that allows us to rely on them. It may be better to sit at home than to go if that is the case. This is what I wanted to have this discussion very clear. The bill is a base for solution, but it needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u84	Mr. President. I recommend the Commission's opinion of the bill for legal support from the state funds due to the payment of part of the pay on notice, from a greater part of the Economic and Business Committee, on the requested basis of the Commission. 1497. The bill is a part of government action because of the economic events brought on by the modern - day Korean disease, and it adds to the various laws that the General has already agreed to. The bill is suggested to provide financial support from the state funds to pay part of the pay of the job drivers on the payoffs of employees with the aim of reducing the likelihood of a company's mass fees. Financial support on the basis of the bill is based on data that will be attributed directly or indirectly to situations that have developed as a result of an outbreak of crown virus. Depending on the conditions where the professional has experienced at least 75% of contractures per specified interval. At the same time, the rights of the paid men and the professional is supported by, including that they have the priority of a comparable job with the employer for a certain amount of time after the notice has passed The bill on this subject is part of the widespread action taken by the government in an effort to reduce the damage to the epidemic of crown virus. The aim is to reduce the efficiency of households and companies who are dealing with problems and at the same time stimulate economic activities when opportunities arise. The aims of the action that we at the Council have joined together almost unsurpassedly are threefold: first, to secure the status of the pay people and to protect their recruitment relationship with the payer. Second, support companies with the aim of enabling them to cope with a serious loss of income. Third, to stimulate the economy and establish a future economic structure that is based on a greater wide range of support as the commercial economy is better equipped to achieve the demand for future losses. The extent of the government's efforts to support businesses, employees, children's families, disability, communities, and students, to promote the economy, as well as to promote innovation, research, and development, is about 352 billion dollars. or equivalent to 11.9% of gross domestic product last year. The latening bank notes that if only action involving direct effects on the survival of the State Fund represents 4.2% of national production, similar to the magnitude introduced by the government in Norway and Denmark. A greater proportion of the committee points out that, at the same time, much of the action has been implemented on behalf of the Bank of Money. The bank has taken decisive steps to the earth in this area of money, including significant reductions in basic growths that have never been lower in history. In the new estimate, despite what has been done, the financial recession is expected to be about 8%. The future forecast would be the largest economic recession in the country in one year since 1920. Clearly, the consequences of the epidemic would have been far more serious for a home and a company if there had not been extensive action on the subject of government and money. During the coming year, we can assume that the rest of the situation is unchanged, shifting, and making a success of the economy. The main adjustments that the greater part suggests will be made in a special Senate document. In Comb 4. The bill discusses the conditions that a professional needs to meet so that he can receive support from a government fund as a result of paying his due notice. The 2nd gives the definition that the average monthly employment drive between March 1, 2020, and today's reporting date has come together by at least 1st. 75% compared to one of four specific periods. Comments to the Committee pointed out that visitors in Iceland were significant during the first half of March. Let it be assumed that many companies, including in trade and services, obtained a few incomes during March of the month, and that the month does not provide a realistic picture of the loss of income that should be considered. As told by Airport Associates to the Committee, special attention is given to the fact that unchanged, the bill may have the impression that there is an abnormal competitiveness at this date. The review of the Contestant Commission calls special attention to the information of the Airport Socializations and agrees with it. Taking into account the above statements, the larger portion suggests that the start date of the reference period for a percentage of revenues will be April 1 instead of March 1. In addition, the larger portion suggests that dates in the d-communion will be adjusted in accordance. Among the conditions for financial support under the bill are that an employer has not bought his own things from March 15, 2020, and he may commit himself not to do so until financial support is fully paid or reimbursed. It has been suggested that there may be a reason to give a exception to this condition in the case of purchase of parts of an employee who have been retired and that it is clear that no re-election will be undertaken. KPMG's comments on the subject indicate that the requirements for the purchase of your own messages may be normal in the case of a significant holding object, as can be assumed in such cases that the work relationship is more likely to be the result of the ownership than vice versa. Then there may be a situation in which an employee is more able to keep his items in the workplace despite the resignation of the job, such as due to taxable pay that may have been generated by the employee when he acquired items than he first came to taxation at their sale. Finally, an incident might be in a contract committed to buying a part of an employee at the end of the job and that in such cases it might be abnormal to forbid the purchase of personal items for the sake of such agreements. In the latter case, a decision on the purchase of the items was assumed to have been made by March 15th. the end of the contract to buy parts at the end of the work was made for that timeline. According to the rendering of Figure 3, paragraph 4. The bill, as well as the explanations for the bill in the report, is clear that the date should be based on the date of the decision and not the date of the appointment. KPMG comments that this is very clear about the distribution of interest but that the expression in Article 4. can cause doubt when it comes to the reduction of stocks and buying their own items. To explain this point, the majority suggest a change in wording of the figure so that the date on March 15 would be considered as a decision for such actions. This changes will ensure that the employee's rights, which will be lost at the end of the job, can demand the company to redeem themselves from the stock market available for work at the relevant time. However, this does not apply when an employee has bought e.g. stock market share in the company he works for, which is not part of the employment contract. Amongst the terms for financial support under the bill, an employer has not determined the distribution of interest from March 15, 2020, and commitment to not do so until financial support has been fully paid or reimbursed. The committee received indications that there may be a reason to allow this exception in cases where there is a new stock that has occurred on the basis of a financial increase following the development of financial difficulties directly or indirectly due to the pandemic. Otherwise, the requirement may have an effect on investors, thereby limit the job driver's ability to survive and thus work against the target of the bill. The majority suggest that the bill be added to a new set of rules where the tax will be granted to provide an exception to the conditions of interest in the above cases. The principle that only financial support under the bill should be fully reimbursed or reimbursed is given. Eight. The bill explains how a professional worker should contribute financial support to his tax returns. In the event that financial support is superior to the total loss in current management years and the overreaching loss from previous years, it should be done on the basis of income support for the next six years, 10% per year for the first two years and 20% per year for the next four years thereafter. The majority suggest that this price should be replaced by four years and 25% a year. 14th degree. The bill shows that the tax is permitted to publish information on which employers have been established support from state funds under the law. The Commission discussed the matter with a view that there is a better way to describe the obligation of the tax to publish information rather than the authority. It was more consistent with popular views of public rights for access to information on the provision of public funds. The majority agree with this and suggests the wording of pars. if the tax duty of the tax should be changed to provide information on the recipient's name, i.e. The pro. In addition, it will be stated that the amount of money to be supplied to each employer should be published. Hv. Councilmen Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson and Jón Steindór Valdimarsson are signing this opinion in advance, as the above mentioned in the committee, and I think that is why. Councilmen will explain further. Under the view of this publication. The men of the assembly who stand here, Óli the Björn of Kárason, Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Brudish the Bryndís of Haraldsdóttir, Ólafur the Þór of Gunnarsson, Sigmundur the son of Davíð the son of Gunnlaugsson, in advance, Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, and Jón the Steindór of Valdimarsson, with a warning.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u85	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'd like to ask if, like me, he wasn't worried about the interaction between the part-winning process that we'll discuss here tomorrow, its extension, and this bill that's being strengthened by a company to resign. Counts 'em out. Don't you think a senator that when companies face the bill, it's more beneficial to tell the people off than to keep recruitment relationships and extend the part-change process? One of the objectives of this bill is to ensure the rights of employees. Has a what? A senator does not worry that it is difficult to do so because the conditions set for an enterprise to receive this support in a government fund are so weak? It would have been better to apply some form of reimbursement, as the United States suggests, that in this period, those who are able to stay between 2023 and 2033, over a period of ten years, will make a profit. So there would be some incentive for the companies to choose to keep the employee in the recruitment relationship if they know that there is some reimbursement, even if this is proportionate to what the future will be like.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u86	Madam President. I'll be able to cover a bill that will most likely be discussed tomorrow on the part-change process. I have my opinion on that, and I've given it to you in view of the fact that the bill as it is, I hope it makes some changes, is defective, and works against its goals. But I'll be covering it better tomorrow. Do these bills work together, what we're talking about here, and then the bill on the partial improvement process, or do they work against each other? First, this is the resources we deal with here only for those enterprises that have suffered a huge loss of income, over 75%. Much of their enterprise, praise to a god, who may be able to take advantage of the part-change process, will not be able to take advantage of this route because the resulting loss of income has not become as serious as it really is. When it comes to paying back this official support, we do. A senator has had a few discussions about it, but this support is being reimbursed in the form of the obligation of the companies to take advantage of it. Of course, this revenue is eaten because the company has a taxable loss. Then it disappears. If there were not a income transfer, the tax loss would be on hand, and the company would, if the living thing we hope will not start paying income taxes for years. [[The president calls.]] In other words, we are speeding up the company's income taxes by obliging them to earn money and to eat up the total fiscal losses.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u87	Madam President. I haven't noticed in any of the changes I made in my bill or in my bill that there are limits to putting in the collection of taxes against these revenues, so that can be from collapse. But that's enough. I know we what we're doing. A senator does not agree to exclude those who use tax cover from this support. I view those who have created a lot of complications in order to avoid paying a government fund by themselves reporting their government support. But what does it want? A senator says that a company of ten or more people will have to be submitted to climate textbooks and a greenhouse gas emissions programme for the next five years? This is not burdensome. It's a simple matter to do and a more comfortable guide, but there the government would put the climate issues on a small schedule for this Covid tour.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u88	Madam President. So it's very clear, we've had this discussion before: If you have. A senator means that if they don't make use of tax appeals, they're avoiding tax pay that they have legalized in Iceland, I'm on her side, if they don't meet the requirements set out here in order to enjoy the support that Iceland's taxpayers are going to provide companies who are in dire need. We're giving them the opportunity to get through this, hoping that some company will survive a 75% income drop and at least We will protect the staff's rights, however, by ensuring that they have to wait for months to be settled from the pay of responsibility. I'm not against a company taking part in the battle when it comes to climate, but we're here dealing with a rescue operation for a business that is bringing peace and stability. Is it really true that people are thinking about putting on increased loads or making this more difficult for an enterprise when they all need to focus on saving the things saved? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u89	The President reminds me of why. Councilmen are to respect the deadline.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u90	A respectable president. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to address some of the points that I discussed with 1st. The case and I didn't get the answer in a committee study, much more part of the Economic and Business Committee. The chairman of the Committee may be able to include me in that matter. First of all, we're talking about this, but it's not connected to a bill about the part-change process. It's not just because there's an internal force in the system, as if it could be in these cases approved, moving people from the part-way to being dumped and the company is being supported at the deadline to pay the cost, but it was also something to the highest level. The minister of finance said that there was a context to consider. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council was assured of the link between the two cases, which are in two different committees. How did the committee respond to this guidance by the minister regarding the matter? The other thing I'd like to ask, is that in the previous answer, it's about the work of people who are told off by this arrangement. Today, it is generally possible to demand a job deadline, but this is an unusual way of handling it and, for example, the amount of time it takes. the highest word. Minister, that it's an option to help companies to work on the ground, you might naturally feel that people don't have to do work at this strange notice. Is the experiment, or will people be made to make up the notice that the State sponsors?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u91	Madam President. Back to one basic point. You have to keep in mind that the bill we're dealing with here is almost exclusively to the companies that have suffered the biggest setbacks of 75% income loss. We are trying to give them the opportunity to get through this, but at the same time secure the rights of paymen. However, there are a lot of other companies who may be able to take advantage of the part-change process but are not available and do not meet the conditions for the loss of income. Of course, that alone is fundamental. However, I have said, and I told it here, that I would, when I saw the change proposals made in the subsidies, address them. I'm worried about that, and it's real concerns that in the bill on the partial improvement process, not because of this bill, it's a built-in incentive for a company to choose to prefer to resign from employees rather than to continue in part-change work. That's what worries me about that bill and has nothing to do with this bill. In the case of work deadlines, I myself agree that there should be an agreement between employers and the relevant employee. Often, the employee wants to work at deadlines, and I believe that the labor movement is absolutely clear that it should not be a law to be looked forward to no one to work at deadlines because basic privileges and duties in the labour market are being approached, and they are very delicate. We're not going to touch them, okay? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u92	A respectable president. It's interesting to hear we're doing what we're talking about. A senator is on the basis of the motivations these two bills make, although we may not agree on exactly how the interaction will do so. I, like the senator, worry that we are building a system that encourages narrative, whether by this bill or by the bill. The labor movement now finds that it is necessary to demand workers for a job deadline. One president of VR said, e.g. that it would be immoral in this case. The question is, Has it been examined to make a law, not a law that would solve all people from working at a deadline? Rather, it is an added opportunity for the paymen to control them, so that they are not the professionals who receive this strength that has all weapons in their hands. Then the senator refused to answer the other question about how the relationship between the two cases was established, not on some personal basis, but formally between the two committees, just as I was in charge of the highest court. Minister intended to happen. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u93	Madam President. I realize that I sometimes have the problem of not speaking clearly. I was saying here that there wasn't a connection between these two bills. [[Up front.]] No. I was talking about how I'm concerned that the bill that will be discussed tomorrow most likely, if my information is correct, is in that way an inspiration for that bill. This bill, however, is about the worst of the enterprises, 75% of income loss. We're trying to give these companies a first chance to survive, many will not, but at worst, we are trying to guarantee the rights of employees. I also said earlier that there must be an agreement between employees and company or professional drivers about whether work is required at the deadline. The fact that the legislatator goes into the work administration in this way in some emergency activity was of concern to me, and this was of little or no concern at all. I don't know. I don't think I'll be holding for just a few minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u94	Madam President. Thank you. A senator and would like to begin by describing my satisfaction that it has been taken into account comments coming from Airport Associates on the evaluation of income contractions and on the period in which they are based, to aim them on April 1 instead of March 1, it is very important to eliminate the uncertainty that existed, especially regarding a competitive position between enterprises. I wanted to ask you what. A senator's request is only given notice when an employee is laid off. Today, the National Association of Iceland was concerned that the job driver should be reassigned to a comparable job if the operation starts again and that the work will also be generalised for age so that employees with the longest working age will first be hired and so on. Is there any idea? I just wanted to get a second opinion. And besides, I'd like to agree that ASI emphasizes that there is no disrespect for the official fees, but there is no comment on the pay-related fees. Watch your step. A senator considered whether these comments were taken into account by the public? In addition, the Common Union notes that it is not a requirement for maximal pay paid by the employer and other employees, as is the case in the part-change process, whether to remain consistent between them. These are comments made by the Common Union, and I would like to hear from it. A senator how they were handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u95	Madam President. First of all, about the rights of an employee who needs to experience a job resigning, that the employer uses the resources, is supported by taxpayers for at least Part of that pay cost - but never more than 85%, must be kept in mind. That's perfectly clear, according to Article 11. this bill that the employee is in charge if the board is hired again and the more, he should maintain all the rights he had earned, in the event of resignation, according to the terms of a collective agreement. It is quite clear to me, quite clear here, that the employer cannot, under the cover of giving up an employee but offered him a job within 12 months, use it as a special opportunity to perform the rights and remunerations that the person had earned before reporting. I think it's very important that we keep this in mind. Right away. A senator talks about pay-related expenses, I assume that he is primarily referring to the payment of a pension fund. The pay-related charges include They should be submitted to the employee's insurance fees. This came up for a discussion. The problem is, because we're trying to speed up this process, that the tax is doing it, and it doesn't have that information, and it would reduce it. [[The president calls.]] But this is the view that is valid and fair, and might well be considered to make these changes more. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u96	President. Thank you. A senator's answer, and I realize that of course, it is important that these measures will be done quickly, but we must make sure that there are no mistakes along the way that can be difficult for us, even costly. But I just wanted, in the second answer, to bring in BHM for the paymen in the maternity clinic, to see if this was specifically checked. As the review puts it: In accordance with the laws and rules, and if the employer chooses to use the resources of this bill, a BHM suggests that the employee must decide whether he will be on his/her birthday during the period of notice. BHM considers it necessary to be handled clearly in these laws as to how employees are involved in maternity or parent vacations. I know an example of a company that's been taking advantage of this route just cut off women who have been on maternity vacations to postpone it in order to make use of this resignation. Watch your step. A senator came into this? I think it's pretty important to have clear answers to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u97	Madam President. Now, an employee who is on maternity leave can return at any point on notice and win it and return to his birth certificate by law. I don't know any better. Although these comments were understandable, our conclusion was that there was no need to intervene there, there was a valid law in the country that ensured this as I understand it. I believe that there is no way to conclude that women or men in maternity will be losing any rights because of this bill. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u98	Madam President. I would like to recommend the members of Committee 1 my share in the Economic and Business Committee, the smaller part is the one standing here, representing the members of the Committee on the United Nations. The bill is suggested to provide financial support for the pay of a part of the job driver's salary on the payoffs of the employees. The objective of the bill according to Article 2. it is to ensure the rights of the employee and to provide support to the employers who are looking for massive loss of income due to the pandemic crown virus and its related activities. The first smaller section is important for the state to support a business in a difficult situation but to doubt that the bill guarantees the rights of pay people and in some cases it can work against the pay. It is important that the recruitment relationship continues between employers and employees during the difficulties. Therefore, the part-time improvement pathway is so called an ideal support where a recruitment relationship is guaranteed, although remuneration will become a combination of pay and unemployment. By means of the bill on this subject, employers are directly given special support to abandon people. There is a significant chance that the motivation will be to resign people rather than extend the recruitment relationship through the partial improvement process. In particular, this can be expected because there is no need to reimburse the support that can be more than 2 billion. K. with each employee. If a company cancels 10 employees, the support can be over 21 million. K. and if 50 employees are exposed to more than 107 million. K. There is no chance that any company that gets the support will fail. It is hoped, though, that the support will be for more companies to recover, which is the goal. A bill report assumes that the budget for state funds will be about 27 billion dollars. versus given criteria. The first smaller section is important not only to create incentive for an enterprise to choose to maintain recruitment relations with employees where possible but also for fair reasons that the company restores their support to the state funds as the result and recovery allow. In this way companies pay income tax returns first in 2023 and up to a maximum of the next ten years. The reimbursement will be in the form of a income tax returns to 10 percentage points in addition to the current income tax rate. The additional income tax will be reduced from the head position of support. The collection of taxable losses does not affect income tax returns. The company can pay the full amount of support, thus freeing themselves from the income tax and other provisions it brings from receiving financial support. In this way, companies with the best interests of the years after the epidemic has passed will pay quickly with their income tax dollars, but those less successful in the line, as well as nothing after 2033 when the income tax increase falls. This similar approach to what six respected economists have proposed to the European Union because of EU support related to the Korean epidemic. The work of economists is available on the websites, and in the opinion given here, the path is specified, so to speak. Senators can look into the matter. The economists suggest that there be a need analysis, that is an assessment of the companies who receive support, and that it is repetitively recalculated mostly by some kind of percentage calculations depending on how the companies manage to straighten out the cow. The first memory item suggests a change to eight and a half. The bill in this state. These adjustments can be found on a roof. 1537. Madam President. A smaller portion of 1st feels that companies and rich people who have made use of tax cover have violated important aspects of the Community Convention, i.e. the factors that deal with the tax pay and payment of public remuneration are a form of collection due to the insurance characteristics of the norse welfare community. In this way, a memory of 1st things is seen that by subsiding tax pay on tax income, companies and individuals clearly indicated that the individual plans to stand on his or her own feet during good times and war, and those members have, in effect, told themselves of financial support. The first small percentage cannot accept that rich people make use of tax cover, but they allow the public to have the community through tax pay. Billions of dollars lie in tax documents that people hide so that they do not have to pay their share with society, health care, law enforcement, or development aid, for example. The Panama Documents showed that the scope of the Icelandic economy was unique in the world at the time of the data. There is reason to believe that it is still practiced here. Such activities should not be supported by public funds, since it undermines the welfare community. In a conference discussion of other government support products for a pandemic crown virus, members have claimed that the conditions for submission of CC reports and information on actual owners are excluded from companies that use tax cover or decommunications from funds. The United States has pointed out that this is not the case, but we are very small in charge. In order to eliminate any doubt about the tax interpretation of the condition, a representative of the United States requested a written answer from the tax to the prepared examples for an enterprise that might request support, answer how or whether the conditions in the bill excluded the former parties. The fact is, however, that the tax system does not consider those who make use of tax shelter to be excluded from government funds according to conditions set out in the bill. I thought it was very important, Madam President, to get this written by the tax guy who is the person who decides how the conditions will work. That's the way it is, no matter what. Councilmen here discuss this bill or other. These conditions do not hold to the agencies that use their tax cover. That's the way it is. And that's how the board likes things. We can't do that in the United States, we can't accept it. A representative of the Economic and Business Commission, the one listed here, has previously proposed to rule out those who use the tax waters and decontinents from the state fund because of a pandemic crown virus. That proposal was made. Since there is no less reason to make such a suggestion, it is reassigned by a changed format than by the same goal. A new proposal proposed by 1st will contribute to a special Senate document that will make changes to Article 1. It is that in order to gain the right of the legal rights of the law there should be the basis for the society or its real owner to have no financial contact with parties located in the low taxes area. three years. Thus, formal but inactive relationships of this nature do not affect his rights. The relationship must have been active. three years. It will be carried out on the basis of the declaration of the particular company or its real owner that the conditions are met. It does not require work in the administration board to try the prerogative in individual cases. If the person later receives false information, he or she will be demanded to be reimbursed. This work is in line with what is commonly used in the tax administration. The difference between this proposal and the proposal made at the council for the release of other support providers is that they are talking about an active connection. If a person's possession has already become a possession of the land of industry, the years before, the years before the collapse, and there's no new society, no activity, no active connection between the last three years, everything's fine. But if the connection is active and this is definitely a means of making use of tax appeal, then we are not supposed to support these companies with public funds. Madam President. A minimum of 1st suggests that there will be a climate - support strategy set up according to the bill. Under conditions, the government puts climate issues on schedule and immediately requires companies to do the same. Changes proposed by 1st part contributes to a special Senate document that will change the 4th paragraph of Article 4. The bill. It is proposed that companies provide data on greenhouse gas emissions in 2019 and provide a projection for less greenhouse gas emissions every year for the next five years. The requirement applies to a company that cancels 10 or more full - time servants. Support to the resignation of 10 full - time full - time workers, according to the bill, is over 21 million. K. ... becauseoftheemployers' wages and the pension fund...... partoftheemployee'semployees. It is important that the government performs demands on climates with the support of an enterprise. The climate crisis and man - made climate catastrophe are under way, and the problem that comes with it remains unsolved. This problem is mankind's biggest problem, and it will continue when the epidemic is over. The requirements are not burdensome for companies and easy to perform. Enterprise support for 2019 is available, and this information can be used to deliver the release book. In the opinion given here, I recommend a trail on the page of community responsibility, and there you can find a way to make such an account, and there are good instructions on the page. So this is not a burden for a company that claims to ten people or more in full position but that puts the climate issue on the company's schedule if it has not already been scheduled. This is an important condition in itself, although it is not a burden or some of its grand paperwork, it is a firm recognition of the problem, the climate problem that all of us need to help with, like the epidemic we are dealing with today. One of the conditions of extensions is that they do not have support that has paid their owners or top managers a monthly wage of over 3 billion. K. to each and every one. For simplicity, it is important that a requirement for support is most likely in both primary maps. A person may be tempted to choose one of the extra options simply because of the different criteria for support. It should be noted that the above amount takes into account an average of four times the total regular totals for full - time wage earners, as measured by Iceland's Habitat Institute, taking into account changes in the pay balance of the Habitat. This is shown in a paper with a bill on the part-change process. It is very strange if such conditions are set in the part-way, but not when companies are helping people up, with special reinforcements, such as the bill we're discussing here. Madam President. The module supports the conversion of more part to the bill, but it states that a change in part 1 will not result in a remuneration of support with the complex of 8 and 9 g. The bill assumes. It is important to aim at the position of an enterprise on April 1, 2020, instead of March 1, where some companies did not have a significant loss of income until the March 1st. Transparent and good access to information on government support is of utmost importance. Public funds are entitled to the public. The publication of this information also makes it easier for us to keep track of the situation. Change of 14. In view of the obligation of the taxation to inform the recruiters of the names and of the amount of support to each party, it is necessary, and the Conspiracy agrees with the adjustment of the section. Madam President. There are serious flaws in this bill, like I've been tracking here. Indeed, there is reason to worry about interaction between part-change and the work being discussed here, paying part of the pay period at the deadline. Unfortunately, I am deeply concerned that this is going to be abused because the conditions are not sufficient and this is not enough to worry about the rights of employees rather than the success of those who keep the stocks. It's right in front of us. Madam President. If the proposals made by the Conspiracy are adopted, the bill will get a lot better and we'll be counting on it. But without these changes, we in the United States can't support the bill. It's too defective as if I've gone over here carefully. I hope so. Councilmen, like us in the United States, realized that there are certain dangers in accepting this bill as unchanged.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u99	Madam President. I recommend to the Committee's Committee from the 2nd smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee on a bill for State Support due to the payment of part of the pay period. In 2020 it has been the year of many innovations, some better than others, yet it has to be said that smaller things did not mean that the greater portion would choose to give strong motivation for vast, even historical, group reports. While certain forms of abuse and measures are certainly needed to secure rights, it is clear that this is the right of an undisclosed number of companies to provide public financial support in connection with the excerpts of an undisclosed number of employees. The staff will be assigned to work at a deadline, at the expense of the state funds. At the end of the notice, the employer is encouraged to invite a worker who was retreated with the same collective contract rights that he had before, but not necessarily the same salary, if they were higher than a collective contract. Or it may be said that other rights outside the collective agreements may not fit in. The problem that triggers this solution to the greater part is real and serious. A large number of companies have suffered a significant loss of income over the last few months because of the results that have been required to deal with the pandemic of the Covid-19 disease. A mass failure is not expected to occur at any time and can be considered to be an attempt to deal with uncontrollable situations or, as it is called, by the President's permission to trust the economic stability of an enterprise, even though it may result in a significant economic security of the common people. Despite the vast economic problems, however, we do well to ask whether the purpose of the weekend is set before us and that of each other and of the damage that has been done. To that end, 2 smaller things join the Allied Union of Iceland, which says in its review, with permission of presidents: It is obvious that the majority of companies would otherwise face bankruptcy with the related loss of employment and the loss of their employees. Although this was true if nothing had to be done, 2 smaller things disagree with the conclusion of supporting this particular bill alone. Other options are available but to map them need to be more specific. Special solutions are sometimes poorly seen, but they are often appropriate. Other European countries have reached this conclusion and used a mixture of specific and general measures to support their economy in the past few months with a common sense that potentially inappropriate government laws are now in mid-percent, and may have been always incorrectly implemented. Other smaller things think 3rd. The EEA Convention, which is the most important legal requirement for banning government support, needs a review in the years to take into account the truth that progress has been made more often than not in the past centuries. Acting that the State is not part of the economy is at best out - of - date. Trying to maintain such separation at the expense of a worldwide epidemic is a dangerous form of coercion. It is not unusual to place a limit on government support, especially on the inside of the EEA market, but more conservative measures would need to be taken. A natural price for criticism is a better idea. What would 2nd smaller things suggest? In advance, 2 smaller items do not have an entire Ministry to perform diagnostic work for themselves, there are some suggestions that can be provided. First, the state could offer to purchase new stakes of enterprises that run crucial social infrastructure with the effect that the object of the owners is reduced but that the business will earn its right to make money and similar arrangements until the government has been purchased back by the company itself. A lower portion of the section feels that this route will eventually be gone anyway, for one way or another this route has been taken to various neighboring countries. Second, you could help with the restoration of enterprises that are not considered to run a vital social infrastructure by buying the corporate debt. Such a route would likely have to be determined by how to ensure equality and to reduce the number of companies with little or no debts. Given the small estimate of the proposed route in this bill, this approach may not be worse, for it has also been used in different neighboring countries. Third, the partial improvement process could be better and longer along with other measures. In fact, it is a great contradiction to run these two solutions simultaneously, in which the motivations conflict. Likely, a number of companies reject their share-back route as opportunity allows to divulge employees at the expense of their government funds. By contributing the partial improved pathway to a powerful new creation package, perhaps expanding the partial improvement process so that it provided conditions of unemployment for some time, it could have paid for a gradual recovery of employment over a longer period of time, and would even become stronger afterward. It may be that with those who have already taken advantage of the partial relief process, it would not be more expensive to secure any conditional unemployment that does not have work today. Fourth, a memory of 2 points to the tremendous scope of public investment. A close - knit example is that the hospital's bacterial and viral clinic has been damaged for at least 15 years. Two cell cultures had to be closed for molds that damaged all samples in 2006, but little or nothing has been done to fix the situation of this department, which the whole nation has relied on in this epidemic. If a priority was made for all the projects known to governments in the past few decades to be neglected, and to attack them eagerly on the foundation of a high debt fund, both the level of employment could be greatly enhanced and, at the same time, increase the likelihood that people can use their social infrastructure to create an even more economic, social, and cultural opportunities. According to the predictors of Iceland's World Bank, which appears in May-instructions of Money 2020 it is assumed that production tensions will decrease at least for the next three years, i.e. at least we'll see reduced production power for the next three years. It is normal, even likely, that the State uses this hardworking production capacity for good works. Of course, more needles than those listed here might be checked. But it is best to choose interest. When the government puts out a specific operation, disguised as a general procedure, to solve complex and global problems, it is not good luck to be in charge. You can read between the lines of the bill and see which company they're thinking of. The public in Iceland has fully understood that the current situation is complex and difficult, and the recent past few months have shown a willingness to do something in order to make the pandemic more powerful for an Icelandic community. However, when the interests of the public are offered on the altar of a few companies, as is done here, no wonder! Sometimes yes or no questions arise where the basis for the questions is incorrect and neither yes nor no is the correct answer. When an uncalled president proposed to shut down the fire at Notre Dame Church by throwing tons of water out of a high - speed plane, most realized that although that method would certainly put the fire out, it would likely destroy the church too. The answer was not yes or no, but another and a better idea. Many companies see unchanged in bankruptcy within weeks and months. This bill of the government will no doubt save any of them, but it is clear that some of them will still end business. The answer involves, not one huge ventricular bill, but many smaller and targeted action. Another smaller part of it feels likely that history will judge this process as a mistake, in which the interests and stability of the majority of employees were sacrificed for the interests of several business owners. Under this opinion, I write, a Smári Mccarthy, a member of the Pirata Committee for Economic and Business Affairs. Madam President. I realize that in this committee party, I do not clearly comment on certain issues of the bill. In fact, there are some outstanding adjustments made by the committee in this matter, as well as some. paritaprevir Oddný G. Harðardóttir proposed some excellent modifications too. True, to mention one specific item, it is a suggestion regarding the tax industry. In fact, it is becoming a challenge what it must always try to add the rules to prevent misuse of companies and owners working through tax cover every time, instead of the government providing a general solution, a general ban on business management by the tax industry and normal measures to prevent such activities from being handled. This is real. This is known. But this is not to be used, and there is a reason to mention that Iceland is still on the grey list of FAFFs, after all these months, with great impact, to mention, on certain companies that have difficulty moving money between countries because of Iceland's being on the gray list. The reason why I don't go to a particular criticism of the bill is because the point is that it's the wrong way. They're building a strong impulse to give up jobs. We look forward to the largest recorded history in Iceland. It's just because when companies offer to reduce a person's employment rate, say 25%, and can't keep it working and then they have to pay these 25% back, or lower it by telling the employee jobs and then get to keep the employee in the job for three months without paying anything for it, it's clear what choice the companies will choose. It's actually three free months for a company. I wouldn't be surprised if my business started to break up with people. Some may come to paint this up as immorality, but remember that we here at the Council are setting the rules. If we are already in a situation, as we have already done, that we do not set good rules despite knowing that the rules will be applied in a way that can be expected, then we should not be surprised if our companies view them as being so civilized. Neither should we be surprised if we are amazed and suddenly disagree with the public. If the General Assembly is to be a public agent, it would be fine if the General were to do better in fixing their actions together with the public's expectations for how we behave. Finally, I fear that this matter would come on the basis of competition and cause marketing failures because some companies are being given three months of free staff, and even though these companies would go on their way to hire the people right back after three months, and there will be no violations of their operation, they have saved their pay expenses for the past three months. It gives companies who have the advantage of these options and specific savings options over enterprises that do not have the option. Remember, some criteria are that it may remember fragments from percent to or from whether companies meet the criteria. This is a risk to create a worse situation. I hoped that as a council, we would generally try to solve the problems that exist better. I would have preferred that the government not perform such a dramatic general action of the kind here, when it is possible to do things better. We know that things can be done better in the countries around us. This is not a good way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u100	Madam President. In many ways this has been an interesting discussion. Indeed, it is interesting to know how well the members of the management team are, they do not seem to be going to discuss the matter in cover 2. ... aboutit. Tomorrow, we will discuss the changed version of the part-change process, which may be the strongest operation of the government to date. In other words, it is to be squeezed, and it can be said that we are being pushed into that way. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kálmsson is actually exaggerating this and giving a speech tomorrow. Hv. On the other hand, a senator says that these two bills do not have a relationship, but he answers us. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson, however, said that this would still be an incentive for him to go from part-time to that. And if that's not a context, either way, I don't know the context. In 1st. about this bill, I am quite positive about its purpose and purpose. I am still convinced that there is a great deal of general, even drastic action at these strange times. Businesses need to be able to live through the worst storm and begin their job with the right size of an enterprise that suits a new reality, in which tourism will be in a completely different format than it has ever been. I must say, Madam President, as I think more and listen to more and more of these things have come to my attention, which makes me unable to support this bill unchanged. First of all, as I mentioned to you, 1st. O.S., it is very strange and unacceptable, in effect, to offer such a route without starting a new program to create new jobs, which may be faced with long - term nonemployment. Similarly, if the government wants the employer to get rid of employment employees and pick up employment contacts, it will have to introduce plans on how to help people find work. Here, both the private markets, in research, in green investment, in innovation, and as much as the opportunity to use the opportunity to put a full public public public service into the hands. I'm calling in health care and law enforcement. The situation is that while Iceland has increased by 10.5% in the past ten years, the number of government employees has increased by 1.5%. So we'll see what has happened. Plus, there was a whisk. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthy is fine enough to see that there is some relaxation here in the community that will give governments the obvious opportunity to make investments over a country where there is a need. Second, I am absolutely forbidden to understand why nothing is done at the same time to meet the loss of income for the individuals and for homes that are now going to be seen at exposé and a loss of income after three months. Maximum income-related improvements are 456,000 k. and only last three months. If people don't get a job after they're done, they're covered with unemployment at 289,000 dollars. a month before taxation. It is obvious that at the end of the month of Christmas, very many people and homes will be seriously troubled. I'm worried about these people, and I think it's a perfect thing about the government, while they're taking a dozen-million-dollar actions that protect part of the company's money, not meeting individuals better. I also worry that the part-time improvement, which is the most important operation we've ever done for the sake of the pay team, and the way the pay for the deadline, directly works against each other. First, there are conditions for making use of these avenues quite different, which are strange. But if there is any reason to have different conditions, then at least the conditions for getting paid to tell people to be stricter than the other, so the motivation would be to maintain employment relationships and choose the part-change method rather than the other. It is simply creating a temptation problem, which involves these differing conditions, which encourage direct companies to engage in exposés rather than to take advantage of the part-importation process and thus break off recruitment relations with people we deserve to protect to the full. That's the way it is. As long as it's the highest bill. A social minister limits access to the way the government does not pay 3 million a month. Minister no such demands in this bill. Now, I'm not saying that it makes sense, that it is even likely to make the results, but it simply does, by right or wrong, make the company's management decisions suspicious and put them in a difficult position. Now that we have just heard of a group report from a very powerful, well - known travel service company, who will hopefully correct the cow. True, governments have said that they hope that when the wheels begin to turn, they will be able to again hire the people who are now on the side of the State. Of course, we hope that this will work. But you ask yourself, " If there is a desire to maintain a recruitment relationship, why wasn't the part-change process chosen? ' But the fact is, by means of the resignation route, the company will have the opportunity to use full workers for the next three months, now over the summertime, where there is hope for tourists, but by making use of the partial relief process, they would not be able to do so. Therefore, you ask yourself, " Are these bills not working against each other? And if it would not have been better to continue a more large part - process and then take specific measures for individual enterprises, which are systematicly important? ' Whether the people we are about to resign will be offered work in the fall, I think I will determine the judgment of this government action. The results of this process are not even answered and the companies are going to be functional, how they affect competition with other companies that do not come this way, and then they have to compete with something called an equal ground after it. I find that question difficult to answer. Despite the regulations in the bill on how people keep their rights, so let's at least. Care for us to see if people will truly be employed in the same terms as the situation will not help to reduce the quality of the pay. I'm not going to do that to anyone. Of course, there are countless ways when you try to revise people to live with other conditions, which really affect their income in the end. In addition to this, there are a number of arguments in a very careful committee list. Oddrico Oddný's Harðardóttir, who I'm not going to spend a lot of time on here, but I refer to her speech and I'm thinking of myself. These arguments, for example, are based on evidence. the importance of developing motivation for companies to keep employment contacts with people through the part-change process. Therefore, we suggest that the companies who use this resources, the closing route, pay income tax returns from 2020 to a maximum of ten years. First, it is a matter of justice that companies restore support when possible, according to the means of recovery and recovery, and this is an incentive to stay in the part-improvement that I think is a more reasonable option. Then we, in this case and others related to this virus, have said that companies and rich people should not take advantage of tax shelters, they should have the right to support themselves. In fact, they have reported on all government support by failing to pay taxes and public expenses. This is not necessarily a matter of law, not even ethics. If a firm chooses to maneuver his business in some other way in order to minimize the amount of money he wants to pay to the community, it simply does, but it must have to be reciprocated that it would be less acceptable to meet with others. We also believe that when the public demands a permanent approach to the earth and support the job life, and it is certainly important to do so, both in order to protect jobs and to ensure that companies will remain functional and give us money into the common fund, they have to insist that these measures will eventually result in more prosperity and more biographies for all people in the country. Hence, this adjustment has been made with the committee's list of hibernations. Oddný Harðardóttir for setting conditions for climate change plans and for the government to put climate change on schedule as well as businesses. It's not a burdensome plan and at least When an enterprise faces this problem and is about to reorganize, they should have a heartful desire to accept it with a positive attitude. Finally, we believe companies who pay their owners or top managers superpay, just use the criteria from the top bill. Ministers, more than 3 million a month, should not be supported, both in order to match conditions in the stock process but also in order to increase income balance in the country. I reiterate that if there should be a milder condition in the second bill, it should clearly be part of the bill. Therefore, the Company will suggest a modification proposal to meet minimum criteria for support in this bill, minimum requirements for at least short it because, in many ways, these bills work badly, and in many ways they are unjust. I am quite aware, Madam President, that the statistics are not particularly with me in this matter. So I believe that so far, one form of change from the government stand was approved in all of this code, even though later the government and the government were able to count something that was so good and important that it was later revealed to them. This is the evil side of politics. Madam President. I really hope that there will be a change in and that our new proposal will be accepted. But if these changes don't happen, Madam President, I won't be able to vote with this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u101	Madam President. We will discuss this with the Commission's bill for legal support from the state funds due to payment of part of the pay period on notice. In many respects, this is interesting. It does not appear in a void, it is a situation that is quite amazing and perhaps completely different from what we could have imagined. It is evident under the circumstances that the economy is headed for one of the worst recessions in the Icelandic history. The actions that have already been determined here at council and by the government except for the extent of some 350 billion, about 12% of GDP. It's a significant blow. I'm sure the senators will correct me, if I don't remember correctly, but it reminds me that the year that we left the collapse was the worst in the state's budget, more than 210 billion at the price of that year, so here's a huge shock. Direct payments from a government fund, at least in terms of what has already been determined, or is about 100 billion, as well as the state's budget for a drop of income. This is the context of state funds, but in the community members know a tremendous increase in unemployment and the use of much of the government's participant route. It's in all this context that we're discussing. There has been some discussion here today about the difference between the two primes being discussed at the council almost the same time, i.e. On the one hand, the bill we discuss here and the so - called section relief bill. It is an extension of the part - time work route, but it is made in a new way. That is the decision that has been made regarding that matter. Let us see that when the partial improvement process was done, there were really no conditions except that, if I remember correctly, a recession was made, and men could show that it was related to the economic effects of the Korean virus. There are now more detailed indicators, but it is possible to gain access to a company's resources, even though a 25% loss of income has been experienced. In this respect, the resignation bill is completely different. We're talking about a minimum of 75% income drop in order for a company to be able to get into that budget. There is a fundamental difference. It is thus misleading at least to talk about the equal use of these measures. Of course it won't be like that. Well, let's just hope that a large proportion of the enterprises that have a new system of reform are not in the position that they have a 75% income loss and therefore will not be able to use this option. But let us not be misled by the fact that there is going to be a growing unemployment in Iceland. There will be enterprises which will be broken down and there will be enterprises which will have considerable difficulties and will become enterprises which will become in considerable contracture. The measures being taken are to try to ensure that there will be some means of survival, recruitment contact with the staff, and securing the right of these employees. It has only been discussed today about the connection with unemployment improvements, how to deal with the problems that obviously arise when a large proportion of people are on unemployment. We've talked about it here before, and I've said it before, that we'll probably have to take action in the summer, and we'll see better how much of the labour market chooses to do and how much of it chooses either to stay a bit better or to just lay low, as some will be forced to do. The decision must always be that of an enterprise, and hopefully the companies will, to some extent, make decisions with their employees. That's where the partial improvement process is very strong, let's say. Then there's a recruitment relationship. There's only been a discussion this afternoon about the possibilities that may involve leaving a 25% cut-off at post notice, according to the bill we're discussing here today, the company can suddenly make a claim to 100%. It was a brief discussion at a meeting of the Committee and was, among other things, a member of the Committee. Talk to the representative of the national employee movement, the representative of the employees. The conclusion is that within them is at least not a strong will to handle this impossible, i.e. we are, in fact, walking on the rights of the people of pay. They further refer to the enterprises, which I don't think are a bad way in themselves, that employees can use their time on notice, are not a job in the company, to get re-education or to look for new jobs if available. That's what matters. It is true, as has been observed among members of the Parliament, perhaps mainly at 1 Corinthians 15: 58. um., that there is an odd position for an enterprise that has even no work and goes this way, perhaps suddenly upstairs finding a job for a number of employees. Of course, these companies can make a deal with their employees that they can't come to work and still keep their salary. But it would be beneficial if men were to use that time to re-educe or seek other ways to make it easier for them to get a job back. I may not have many comments about the committee's opinion, it was a good thing to review it earlier. However, I state that I agree with the changes made by the committee. I agree with the members of Congress who have mentioned the importance of the changes made in 14th - century congregations. g., for filming. It is important, especially in view of the support we are here talking about, there is support that goes directly to the company. This is the support that enters the company's books, i.e. direct financial support to the company. Therefore, it is important that information about who enjoys the support available is placed upon the tax to inform them. The change in 8. Which was good for, i.e. The duty of the transfer is good to me. It is shortening the amount of time an enterprise has to make up the amount, from six years to four, but this does not change that companies still have to take all the money they get paid according to the standards of the bill. I think I'm gonna do it, but I'm gonna repeat what I said in the beginning: We're making decisions at a very special time. It has been very successful here to cope with the health problems of this epidemic. We're starting to see good results from the measures that have taken on the economic factors. I suppose in the months that have passed, we need to make further decisions in that situation rather than overempture, as I have said many times here on the platform before, that we are working in a situation that is very variable from day to day, and from month to month, and decisions and decisions will continue to be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u102	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech and a fine review of his views on the bill. We've talked a little bit about the conditions that are being given this help and that in order for a company to have a 75% loss of income during a certain defined period of time. However, I wondered, " What is it? ' A senator can think of an example of a company that has had 75% of income but does not need support in paying off notice, perhaps because of the use of government subsidies and because they have enough money to cope with temporary failures, although up to 75%, in one of the four designated periods. So I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament whether there is anything in this bill that limits the commitment of an enterprise with sufficient funds to continue its work without running employees or companies who have enough money to pay their notice deadlines will decide to resign their employees, to take advantage of this approach. I state that these companies may well have met the requirement to have experienced 75% of recession during one of the four periods. But I can do it. A senator saw that there is something about a company here that still can afford to pay a notice or just to keep the staff working for him?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u103	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's question. There was no reason for 75% of income loss. This also means that there is a 75% drop in tasks that the enterprise may have had. It's probably a teaetic thing to set up an example of a company that has temporarily lost 75% of income but who has an unsaid fund. But I guess they don't have a job for these employees. Now it is probably up to those in charge of the relevant enterprise whether they choose to have people with whom they don't have a job or whether they resign. I believe, however, that the remunerationpayers and the employers who have jobs will keep their employees working, as these same employees are expected to earn a lot of money for the company. Of course, it has to be the assessment of the company at any given time whether they will choose to take on their own money during a recession, such as this that they may reduce their chance to recover when the situation improves. I suppose it will always be the assessment of each company. For my part, I'd think it would be a reliable theoretical possibility that this might happen, but I don't believe that a company generally picks up employees they can and probably wants to keep working.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u104	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. However, if a company with a job for its employees chooses to divulge it, get three months off on notice from the state, then hires the same employees again, perhaps in worse terms than before - I'm referring to their remunerations instead of other collective regulations - is there anything in the bill preventing it? If we envision an enterprise where, in some areas, there have certainly become a recession in business up to 75%, whereas elsewhere there is enough money to maintain the operation, is there something in the bill that keeps a company from deciding to resign employees, still use their workers for three months while the government pays for that notice, and then just hires the same employees or new employees after that? I don't think it's particularly teatical, considering that companies were using the part-moving method to dump people. I really wondered if anything will prevent a company that has certainly been exposed to 75% of income contractions during a certain period, however, once the meeting limit has been cut off, choose to fire its employees, have three free jobs a month from the government, and then hire the workers again. Is there anything in this bill that will stop you from doing that?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u105	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the question. Hv. One senator asks if there is something that prevents efforts to collect money from a government fund by means of unseemly methods similar to those obtained in the part - time recovery process. There are conditions in the bill for how a person can get into the resource, but it is with this resource, such as other social projects established by governments in an effort to deal with problems, that it cannot be set for all leaks. We must always rely in some way that the employees, the employers, show the community responsibility to use the resources they need but not to get money because there is a possibility of doing so. It's something agencies will probably go over. In this regard it may be noted that Government Review has already made a report on the use of the partial improvements. It gives us some very important tips that we can hopefully apply in our continued work.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u106	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech began by saying something that made the bill interesting. I have to say, I thought I had a speech. The senator was interested, especially his answer to questions. The conniving woman of the Ævarsdóttir Ævardóttir. Today's Parliamentaries and I received a report, just entered into our home, which the Government Accounting put together on the part-change route. It makes it clear that an enterprise with a strong business and a stable economy applied at that time. I think it's true now that we can't be sure that an enterprise appreciates it itself if it needs support or not. We must have clear conditions. When we discussed the part - help route, we were thinking about our employees, we said: "It's for corporate employees in a difficult position. Then a large, stopy, powerful business comes to its aid. [[The president calls.]] - I thought, Mr. President, I had two minutes before my previous answer?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u107	It is.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u108	Have I been talking this long? The question exists. Senator: How does he feel about the UN's approach to paying for the ability of an epidemic?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u109	Mr. President. Thank you. G. ItHarðardóttir an interesting answer. I have to admit that I got lost when I listened to the senator, after which there was a question about everything else but what the senator had discussed. I assume the Senator applies to the 3rd Amendment of the Continental Changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u110	Eight and nine.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u111	It is the 3rd and 4th counts of the changes made according to the document. [[Up front.]] Yes, it will. I think this is another way, the way the Continental Council chooses specifically at 8. g., if we start with it, we'll be considerably different from the path selected in the bill. This is what is expected to be paid the pressure on the income tax of these enterprises and given a 10-year window, if I understand this right, to pay back the support. I guess that's the question. I think it's the one that makes the 9th. par., and then the income transfer in eight. The bill that happens now is more natural than this one. I realize that it would be primarily to raise the remaining tax debt that would actually be longer payback than it would have been. If the idea is to help a company, I don't quite see what it's gonna be like. [[The president calls.]] True, government funds would get more money back, but there is a little bit of interest in how we value the support we're going to give to the executives. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think the method selected in the bill is more reasonable than this one.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u112	The President reminds me of the hour of speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u113	Mr. President. We're gonna go for a second. A senator does not agree on what is wise. I always think it's wise to view things in a way that allows you to accept what is needed and to pay as much as you can. That's the idea behind the Conspiracy proposal. But the Conspiracy has another suggestion. It's about the companies, and the government and the government at the same time, establish climate issues and that one of the criteria for supporting support has been moved back in 2019 and then establish a five-year reduction plan. This is not to say that emissions need some percentage; it is not burdensome. This is really just a message from governments to companies that we have not forgotten the disaster and that we need to work together as we are dealing with the epidemic. What does it want? A senator's comment on this suggestion? Could he think of supporting her?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u114	Mr. President. The Senator asks for a suggestion that a company should bring climate accounting and that is a requirement for support. I absolutely agree that there should be a requirement for an enterprise in general that it needs to be introduced and submitted to such a climate book. I don't know if it's the right setting when the company is in a rescue operation to set this requirement for them to have this support, even if it's not a great burden. The idea may be developed in such a way that it will be in no way burdensome to the companies, but if it happens - I need the Icelandic word over both of them, Mr. President. I'm not sure that's the suggestion here. [[The president calls.]] But let's do it. A senator to convince me or others of this, I feel that the way is worthwhile. [[The president calls.]] But this does not mean that I will support the proposal as it says.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u115	A respectable president. Earlier today, I asked why. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason, I'm here at the union of the payroll, working out my notice, and I'm going to ask him why. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, same thing. It's a bit fun because suddenly, we'll come up with a different amount of time. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Kárason Kállson said it had come, with President's permission, nothing to discuss. I think it's just a few minutes. Hv. paritaprevir However, with the permission of a president, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson writes: "It was a talk at a meeting of the Committee. I have to say, I like the second sense of time better. This is a point that needed to be discussed, for it is important. In his speech, the Senator said that there was no strong desire among the employees and that some condition would be permissible on the rights of the employees. I think it's just a shoot-out thing. I'd like to consider whether this opportunity cannot be made to simply strengthen the rights of the paymen temporarily around these special resources, e.g. So if a hired man is laid off and a professional takes the strength to pay his dues, he will have the freedom to choose one-sided whether or not he will win his resignation, rather than the need to make a deal between the employee and the employer. On the contrary, this would not go through the rights of the employees. In view of the lack of strength of the will, it differs from what you read. [[The president calls.]] The League of Colleges says, for example. that it can't be normal for a company to have 100% employment and a new active force fully available, but only about 15% of pay expenses. [[The president calls.]] Does the senator agree?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u116	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Andrés Ingi Jónsson for the answer. Yes, it may be that the difference between my sense of time and my emotions is different. paritaprevir Óli Kárason's son, president of the Economic and Business Committee, is in that my questions to the visitors were partly turned to these issues. In this respect, my experience was that some of the time I spent at these committees for a talk and that the conversation took over. I agree with what. A senator, of course, would provide a measure of support for the rights of the employee to make such a provision, i.e. one - sided freedom of a hired man to choose whether or not to work for a notice. Yet, I feel that it is impossible to make such a provision at this point without extensive consultation with the labor movement. Although I don't want to discuss the details of the discussions that took place at committee meetings, I'll be at least to let me describe my experience with those conversations, so that at this point I did not have reason to change it because of the bill, even though there was a possibility of turning these rights into the rights of employees in general.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u117	A respectable president. The senator feels that it is impossible to enact laws on increasing the rights of employees in this bill without extensive consultation. But the bill that we have in our hands includes 25 billion incentives for companies to resign from the pay. There was nothing enormous in the organization. I would think that a change in the kind of change we discussed here in the first round is quite manageable and within what the council can do and has often done on such matters. I wondered if we're falling on a certain tendency for the management team not to use the trip, where we give the total amount of money, a huge amount of money, from a common fund, to support our working life through the Covid ice cream. [[The president calls.]] We will not use our trip to achieve other goals. I'll fall, for example. Think of green goals. A senator and a boy. paritaprevir Mr. Oddný Harðardóttir discussed, and what we discussed on the space of the pension fund to invest in innovations here earlier in the month. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Moreover, it was not possible to take advantage of the opportunity to have green investments as conditions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u118	Mr. President. The Senator speaks of using the trip, and there may be reasons to use the trip, as he put it. But what I told you earlier is that when you don't agree in the reaction that you get from the employees of paymen to take on this point in making this bill, it's hard to think of taking that step to some degree in at least treating them with the same kind of exercise. I want to set things straight. A senator noted earlier, saying that 25 billion incentives to resign from workers are included in the bill. I don't think so at all. The bill assumes that significant sums of money may fall on a trust fund, but this is not because the government fund is urging companies to resign. [[The president calls.]] This is because trying to make sure by all means that there will be a company for people to come back to work by when we get out of this crisis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u119	A respectable president. We'll discuss determining employment drivers' support to pay their pay for the notice. I think I mentioned this first in the 30th April, before the bill had seen the day, but after it was presented at a press conference - this way is an incentive, especially in the interaction with the changed and extended subsidies, so that people, especially people who have been part-time reformers. Hv. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson said that the state is not encouraging news. For example, I can totally agree with it because inducers do not necessarily have to be, so that the State can be a great source of encouragement to someone. On the other hand, the interaction between these two cases has particular reason to suggest that there is a financial and business incentive for bringing people of the part-back pathway, where the employer must pay half of his salary and receive half-priority, to give up and get a government scholarship of 85% and to accept a 100% remuneration in return. This measures are due to the need for many companies to stand very in favor of the Covid porpoise. I don't think that's going to hide anyone. But conditions for management need to be much clearer than they are in this bill. It is expected that most companies who deal with 75% of income loss during this period will be in a lot of trouble, but in the middle of that, they will also be a firm business and a solid economy that could get through this situation without having a special grant of up to 3 million per employee they divulge. This will probably be revealed soon after the management process is started as the tax will publish a list of all the enterprises that use their resignation. Without my wanting to sit down in a prophetic chair, I think we can expect news every time the list is updated where it or the other company, which, in the opinion of journalists or others, is too strong or stopped to justify it. But if it did, there were conditions in the bill that the legislature gave green light to it. At least there will be interesting discussions when the media begin to discuss the subject. Here we have only discussed the rights of the employee and whether it is possible to handle the situation that, according to the current law, it is an agreement between the employee and the employer whether people are working for a notice. As mentioned earlier, we are talking about measures up to 27 billion that will affect the position and right of people working, and understandably, because it offers companies that meet simple conditions, as near as a state - strength free workforce. But why can the Council, the Lawgiver, not at the same time show the will to strengthen the right person, e.g. by increasing their freedom to choose for themselves rather than in consultation with the professional driver, do they work out an appointment? It would also counteract the possibility of misuse, the moral problem in the bill, that if a professional person cannot assume that he has the full potential to work for people on notice, he may not be as willing to go that way. It is proper to note that although the unions that returned the reports had some strong words, they all point to 1 1 1. the bill, the rights of the employee, and the need to express more clearly on people's rights. We will not fail. The common Union stresses that companies are expected to meet the demands of employees for a period of notice to take holiday and resources to improve their qualications or to seek education. BSRB comments on the article and points out that the rest of the budget does not explain the implications of the article's revision, how it should be implemented. The U.S. Scholars'Alliance, said by permission of the President, continues to explain: It cannot be considered normal for an enterprise to be able to have workers in 100% and their new active workers fully, but only about 15% of pay expenses. I agree with this. What, then, do we do? For the council there are two minorities that I would like to mention in particular because they have a different approach to the matter. If we give ourselves to go this way, we have to make adjustments to 1, smaller parts, or whatever. paritaprevir It's a whole Oddný Harðardóttir, a way to improve a bill that's not good enough. It suggests to increase the requirements for enjoying this Kingdom power so as to be clear that the funding of the companies cannot be through a tax bill, they do not pay superpayers in line with the sister bill of this bill on the extension of the system's subsidies, and that they set goals in climate change. The last thing you might say is that if a company is in charge in the next few years, there is something to do. The other way that we're going to a minority party is in the opinion of a secondary part of the Economic and Business Committee, please. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr, which points out other ways, the custom ways of dealing with the problems that we face, in a much more targeted way, safeguards the position of remuneration, which helps companies who are in favor of their foots without merely placing on the buffet of 27 billion companies who have experienced a loss of income, regardless of whether the underlying business or economy is solid and powerful. What happens, though, when the time of this decision is over? There was a news report in the morning newspaper, which speaks to a specialist in the employment department, that the analysis of the first 8,000 persons who dropped the part-back pathway shows that half of them return to work but that the remaining half is fully dismissed. It may then be estimated that during the following months, a slightly higher proportion will be fully withdrawn. So what we need to say today is not how a company can drive people in summer but a new kind of work force of it so that it can't be hired again, but where are we going to go and where the government is going to encourage the career to hire employees rather than fire them?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u120	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill here that I believe will last badly. Hv. paritaprevir A Smári Mccarthy puts it this way in his committee study, with the permission of a president: ▪ This government bill will no doubt save some of them, but it is clear that none of them will still stop business. The answer involves, not one huge ventricular bill, but many smaller and targeted action. A smaller portion of the less likely history will judge this process as a mistake in which the interests and stability of the majority of the employees were sacrificed for the interests of several business owners. I agree with those words. paritaprevir Smári Mccarthyr. I believe, as shown in the case of other council members in government opposition, this bill involves the motivation for corporations to resign. I also believe that history will show us how many lay-offs during this period we can refer directly to this bill because instead of rethinking new power sources, the government has decided to protect the property and interests of companies beyond the salary rights, across the exhausted aims of the part-winning process, which, of course, is to maintain a recruitment relationship. A respectable president. Sometimes it is said that the road to hell is a good resolve. I'm sure he's here. You can ask what your intentions are good, but I believe that it is. Senators, directors, must feel that they are doing well. I'm sorry, though, that in discussions with the government's huge-growing resources, where the estimated cost of state-enforcement reports is 27 billion, all three members of the administration will be involved in the 1st and 2nds. of this huge case - three. I'm asking you, what's the intent of the administration? I don't think it's enough to hear from three of them what they think they're doing with this, because we in the smaller section have come up with understandable criticism, with big questions but few answers. It is most unfortunate that there are no more council members at the Council who can see their views in this gigantic operation of the government, quite unfortunate, because there are very big things I think are needing to settle in this hall before everyone. That the position of other members of the government is clear. What is this good resolve that the management feel will lead us, not to hell, but to something else, likely to a better place? I'm sorry I didn't hear any more of that. That's disappointing. I don't think that the bill will prevent the misuse of this government aid, and I also think it's very unfortunate that we're discussing this before the extension of the part-change process, especially when we've just received a black report. I would have thought that after we've considered what went wrong on the part-way and how to avoid the misuse of public funds at these critical times, even if it means that the members of the council at this council have to come here on Saturday, or, God forbid, on Sunday, which I think was just never done at the same time, in order to resolve this matter for a month's convention so we can discuss both the issues, in context, and with all the information at the table. In their report on the partial improvement route, a member of the Management Board pointed to the following, with the permission of a president: In this case, it can be assumed that the recession referred to by the employers when the staff's work ratio is lowered has to be due to Covid-19. It can also be noted that the contraction has to lead to business management problems and, therefore, a strong economy company should be able to get a short run-by without having to resort to job confidentiality or a decrease in employment ratio. All of these are points that the Labour Office should provide when evaluating the possibility of having been allowed or allowed to pay remuneration. A respectable president. The contraction has to lead to problems with the companies. This bill does not show that even if the two committees had formally spoken about the conditions that would be intelligent before 27 billion and 34 billion of the estimated cost of the state's funds is overassigned by overdeveloped conditions. If the committees had come together, took a little better time, and also took time to read a government accountant's report on the part - improvement pathway and decided to postpone a discussion on this subject, just in the meantime, there would be further ways to prevent abuse. But keep going. Somehow, I think I know that little will be turned into the bill from this and that there will be laws tomorrow no matter what political oppositions and hummings and no more council members come up here to justify all these acts. According to a government accountant's report, too many noncombatants are taking advantage of the part - help process. I can't see that this bill takes to some extent that companies who don't have any immediate business problems use this way, although they are able to meet that requirement, as stated in Article 2 of Article 4. the bill, that the average monthly income of the person until the end of the day has been drawn at least 75% compared with one of the four following periods that an enterprise can choose to aim for. This is the only requirement for the so-called management problems of these companies. A company does not have to prove that there is a real business problem. There is no need to show that they can't pay their notice without failure or that they themselves can't make 75% of contractions and still refrain from firing staff at the cost of the State. You can't find in this bill, and I haven't had any answers that there are any conditions for it. I'd also like to wonder, too, that the state will publish that it will support a company's pay on notice when we know we're sailing into a massive unemployment, enormous unemployment. And we know that the firms, after three months of notice, can hire this same staff back on a lower salary, that this would put considerable pressure on these same staff to be fired, have an notice in three months from the state, work the whole three months, because it also exists according to this bill, and then be employed again on a lower salary after that and have a small choice. Because what's the professional level in the country right now? It's not that much of a request. At the same time, there is no time to raise any of the basic unemployable benefits. What house are people to search for? This speck is, as I understand it, perfectly legitimate - at the expense of the taxpayers, please. I believe this bill is the wrong way to solve problems that certainly exist. I believe that the government would have further considered the ideas of hastening financial restitution, as to the discussion, the ideas of implicit access to the employment insurance fund for the paymen themselves with some sort of account or agreement with employers there without a job supply. That would have been a more effective way than to publish it at a press conference with a bang and pug that the government was going to strengthen the layoffs. How many resignations did we see as a result? They were nothing but historical. Mr. President. Finally, I would like to refer to the majority of the economic and business committees in which the aims of the above government action, which is a long list of all that the government has been doing, are three. First, the goal is to ensure the status of the employees and protect the recruitment relationship. I think it's a strange sentence, defending the recruitment relationship of the hired people, and that's the goal of the bill. I believe this action will go directly against the government's objective to protect employment relations between employees and employers. And that it works directly against the aims of the part-change process we're supposed to accept here along with this bill. These are different goals. I don't think it's right to discuss these two things in the wrong way as I think it is here, that we talk about the explanatory process first and then the extension of the part-change process without giving us enough time to cross the clear and important tips that the government accountant gives us on the use of the part-change process, and blood in front of it. I also believe that the wrong end has begun, a respectable president. To say, I think it's important to want people to support this bill, that they at any rate put forth an effort to read some of the changes. Harðardóttir It is safe to believe that companies using a tax host in their trade do not have access to these measures. I believe that there is a fundamental precept for some sort of minimal historical agreement on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u121	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Thorhl Ævarsdóttir Ahvarsdóttir for her good speech. I think I can honestly say it, whether in command or in opposition, that I can agree with every word she said. I agree that there is a bit of a problem with being talked about trying to strengthen the recruitment relationship between the employee and the employer at the same time that we are now urging the employee to have jobs and the Icelandic public to pay the bill. I'd like to pick up the ball where it's at. paritaprevir Þórhildur Ævarsdóttir Övarsdósdir left him, with a subjugation in his speech where she urged us to accept the minority opinion of Oddný G. A Harðardóttir daughter who is trying to strengthen the fact that the Icelandic taxpayers are not yet the only way to shovel money on parties that so far have had no interest in it, will or anything, to pay in our common fund; to parties, companies hiding in taxes. On May 24, I would like to refer to the May 24 issue of this magazine. A nice former government tax manager, Þorláksson, H. to the World Health Committee. It was based on how it might be possible for a company to take advantage of this route to be in a tax crisis. There are many things we have discussed in that case, e.g. like a mother-mate who's anywhere and she's got a granddaughter here; all the money goes abroad, the company doesn't pay a dollar here. We know these things, lots of them. But are we dealing with it here? No, we're not. This reminds me of the blow that landed in the country's last economic collapse, 2008, when between 12,000 and 15,000 families lost their home, when it was promised to build a fenced city around the country, but instead of building a currency around these families, many of which have not yet been asked to do so. However, it was constructed around the wealth of the land and its appearance. I don't stand here to say that here are no enterprises that are in a great deal of trouble that have really lost their feet. Nor will I say that we have every reason to help them. But I want it absolutely clear that we have an obligation to keep secret and clear in order to try to cheat on something that is presented here with a good will to help companies who are really under attack. It's everyone who gets some kind of tragedy, but it's also different how the business is going to be. I'm here to refer, by permission of the President, to a table I did for the payment of one of our most valuable and most powerful companies in the country that we all know, called Blue lagoon. One, two, and three, had to be read naturally, since all the tourists disappeared, and so do we. Let us note how a small step in profits and good business ventures and how the tourists helped that the business was never again flourishing. In 2013 the owners paid about 714 million for their money. By 2014 it was 929 million and by 2015 1.170 billion. By 2016 it had reached more than 1.3 billion. By 2017, the billions have become 1.5. By 2018, the billions are now more than 2 and last year, 2019 C.E., this enterprise paid out more than 4 billion in profit. Thus, in this brief period of time, a business has paid a total of 12.3 billion for financial gain. This is a company that became with the first to take advantage of the partial improvements. Just think! It is said that the Icelandic taxpayers pay with this company about 200 million. K. per month. Is there anyone here to say that a company that can pay as much money as you can, and do as well, with no money, that it's just on the head, that it can't take a particular plaque, can't show respect for the public and us not to take advantage of such lifesaving measures? I mention this company as an example, one of many more companies that I'm not going to list here, but that we've been given to look after after we finally got the list of the companies that are using the part-saving process. We are acknowledging the immorality by not coveting things like this by paying back those who can, that's just the way it is. This is not supposed to be a bunch of alumnus, like it's being registered to some summer camp. Those who can, and we should help those in need, are to be paid. That should be fundamental. What way is the government? She thinks it's okay to say, yes, we'll probably have a limp in the next two years, about 500 billion dollars. You, good taxpayers, as usual, bend the banks more, you get to pay the bill. That's not fair. Even those who have never been able to buy their way into the Blue Devil should pay that one. I'd like to refer to Indriði Þorláksson, former governor of state tax. He gave two suggestions for a welfare committee, how he sees himself that we can see to it that companies who have spent their money on taxes are taking advantage of the lifesaving measures that are now taking hold of the public in an effort to help. It's kind of precarious that we're going to get hooked on one more trip, so let's get our people involved. With the permission of a president, if I ever find this, I'm not very good at the paper -- yes, he's here talking about reducing the fact that people using tax snow in their operation can transfer profits from the operation without paying taxes as required. The difference between what he is offering and what he is saying is: The proposal A is based on the position that has been growing in international cooperation that tax conditions are such harmful to the nations of the world from an economic and social point of view, robbing countries of taxes, inhibiting economic progress and increasing the dissociation of possessions and income. A respectable president. Does anyone know this? Does anyone know the disparagement of property and income in our great country? And it goes: ▪ The purpose of the people they use is to avoid paying their part of community activity alone. Thus, a tax area such as this should be excluded from contact with other countries and the international community. Suggested A includes linking to a low tax area alone, i.e. to eliminate the relevant party from the public funds they have shown that they do not want to pay their share. Why do the public support those who have shown that they do not want to contribute their part to our community, in the combination? In many ways it has not been prepared well enough, has taken enough of it, how to react when we are proved to be ill - treated with public funds and abused when it has been decided by immorality. We now see that over 50 companies are already paying back, and that's our fault. It's our fault that they've taken advantage of this part-change process because we didn't set clear rules. I'm here to refer to Proposition B. These were two suggestions made out of a nice former head of state tax, an Indriði H. Þorláksson, but, as everybody knows, he has a lot of experience in tax matters and all kinds of stuff. He says: The proposal B differs in that it is less common. It suggests that in order to gain the right of the law, it would have to be expected that the relevant organisation in this country or its real owner did not have any financial contact with parties located in the low taxes area over the last three years. Thus, formal but inactive relationships of this nature do not affect his rights. In both cases it is expected that the implementation will be based on the declaration of the particular company or its actual owner that the criteria are met. Therefore, it does not require work in the administration board to test the prerogative in isolated cases. If the person later finds out that he is wrong, he will be demanded for remuneration and penalties that need to be fed. A respectable president. I'm not going to keep this much further than what I've particularly burnt is to look forward to seeing that we're not going to make room for people in the tax seas -- who have even put the community on their side, who are even today aware of having societies active in Toilus and in other places with all sorts of round movies from society to society, with another society, trying to hide the trail - making this option. What a surprise it is if we are not going to listen and learn because we do not want to see this kind of work! We do not want to invite the public to do that. We're here to row in the same boat. The whole community has stuck with us in this struggle. We've been overcoming the virus for now. We've already made the first phase, but we could never have done it unless we had the will of the whole community, never. If we had not been listening to Víðir and listened to those who were giving us the advice and show us how to avoid being infected with this disgusting virus, I believe that we were not here as far as we are now. I'm just saying, in view of our putting our hands around our companies, trying to protect our jobs in the country, trying to help the economy back, trying to get our wheels back started, we must also respect those who are with us in the boat and pay the bill. We must close our eyes completely to helping those who are sexually exploiting the life - saving cycle that we are here to cast out.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u122	Mr. President. I have listened to a discussion about this bill with interest, and many interesting developments have been made. They have reasoned their case, and they seem to be different. Thus, the person listed here is one of the people involved in the committee's view and the adjustments it makes. Actually, I'll sign the committee in advance. He's short, and I'm going to read him up, with President's permission: I agree with the changes made by most of the object as far as they can go. The adjustment of the majority of the items is definitely improving. My priorities especially concern the section of our opinion that deals with government action because of the epidemic. It discusses matters that are totally unrelated to the bill. So he must be responsible for the members of the council. In our restoration, we have said and said: " We want to support the efforts of the government and the government in order to deal with the problems we truly face. Of course, the administrative body has been so bent on the nature of the matter that it has been extremely reluctant to agree on some of the changes proposed by the lesser part. On the other hand, I would like to say that a discussion on the excellent committee on this matter is subject, please. The Economic and Business Committee has been very good. It has been under way, and the discussion has been discussed. I'm telling you that the bill has changed positively because of that discussion, and I think the government has put its mark on these changes. That doesn't mean everything is perfect in the bill, even though I've decided to be on the committee's opinion, on this notice. But I'm not going to go trace it. Of course, there are always ways to go, and it is difficult to know who is necessarily the right person. This is where you have decided to take a certain course, and you try to do your part to improve it. My colleagues in the government stand up have made their decision on the committee. On the one hand, the Piratars have offered interesting publicity in which they go abroad and say that this may not be a reasonable way, and it may well be. However, they do not make any specific suggestions for changing the bill, e.g. is their assessment that it does not take it. On the other hand, a what? paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir proposed changes with her committee party. There are some suggestions that are worthy of your attention. Some are familiar with the discussion, and for good reason. A senator has spoken. I do not necessarily have full conviction that everything suggested there is real benefit or improvement. On the other hand, there are some items that I am assigned full of rights to take a closer look and take a stand when it comes to paying a vote. But in this general discussion, I think it is very important that all of us keep in mind that what is being done, including what is being done, is important. with this bill, to assist companies and employees. It can be said that it is an emergency for many companies and therefore many homes. Action must be taken in an effort to meet this challenge. That's why I know how, for example. It's not very good when you talk about that bill being some special impulse to resign. We have to look forward to making such a big mistake for the enterprises involved that it can be compared to a headquarters. 75% of revenue is a major blow. You can say that an enterprise in such a position has no choice but to resign, to try to live up to it. Clearly, most of them will not be able to live up to it at all. What, then, is the alternative? It is that the company goes into bankruptcy, and the cost eventually goes to the state's expense. So I feel that we have to be careful with all this discussion why we're doing this and what's the reason we're doing these things. We must not forget that. Of course, we should be more demanding, and we do. We are to keep close watch that these conditions are being carried out, and we are also to make knots in this way, and that is, in fact, the same. made up of this bill and is one of the changes made, that the user will be fully informed about the resources and the amount in the cards. I believe going too far in the terms of the assistance may result in the lack of assistance for the intended purpose and loss being more than there is a reason. I know it's well-meaning when people want to set strict conditions about the nature of these companies, whether they've made profits at any point, what their owners are, and how they've behaved, but we can't afford to lose sight of the main objective of all of this. It's on the basis that I described earlier that we want to do good, we want to try to improve and correct what the government is trying to do, but we also know that there is limited that we can really tolerate what the government has to do with it. This is the bitter reality that we face in our government opposition. But we are not the source of criticism and tips, and we will, of course, continue to do so. The person standing here has criticized many of the measures that have been taken, and I will continue to do so in no uncertain terms. I'm on it as it has become. It has improved in the treatments of the Committee, so I will support it, of course, as I have signed, with the warnings contained in the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u123	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Steindór Valdrim's Valdimarsson before the speech. I had planned to come here for a talk, not necessarily in return. I couldn't help but agree. A senator, we wrote under the same view a greater proportion of things. Óli Kárason Kálmson, the head of the Economic and Business Committee, was very much reviewed earlier today. At the end of his talk, however, it became wrangled. paritaprevir Jón Valdimarsson so well, I saw a reason to come up here to answer, i.e. that the conditions will not be so severe that they may prevent the goals from working out and may even add to the damage. That's what I think I'm holding on to what we're doing. We're forgetting to some extent about what this is all about. Then we are in the beginning of a talk. Senator, if we talk about the conditions in 4. par, 75% income drop. We can imagine a company that has such a loss of income, and some of them in a total loss of income, 100%, with high investments and high financial costs, which are just the case. Then the main weight of the discussion is whether anyone may try to abuse these options. We're talking about an emergency situation. I have to say, I thought it was a problem. At the end of his talk, a senator puts it so well that I saw a reason to take advantage of the opportunity and to respond to it. Otherwise, I would have tried to catch it in some special way in a talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u124	Mr. President. All I want to do is enter the discussion and cut down on the State Accounting report, which was just about to be delivered to members of Congress, where it made the initiative advising the part-time job route. It reveals a number of interesting things. At the beginning of this report, the figures discussed are attributed. It says that the 20th March 2020 was legalized and that on May 15, 6,436 employers and some 37,000 employees have already taken advantage of the part - time work route. Just as a large number of people are making good use of this resources, so it has cost a great deal of money. A labour agency assumes that partial improvements can take up to 31 billion dollars. in 2020. According to the labour agency, 85% of employers who used the part - time work route until May 15 have made an agreement with one to six employees for part - time work. Then 31 companies have negotiated with more than 100 employees. In 89% of the cases where employers used the part-time process, the total pay to pay was less than 3 billion. K. One company, however, is totally different from the number of employees on part-time and the money of payment, Iclands hf., but in March and April 926 million were paid off by the non-employment insurance system. K. in damages due to 2,493 employees of the company. The overall pay due to partial improvement to the staff of the airline's motherhood, Icelanda Group Corp, was 1,116 billion dollars. Due to 3,318 employees. This is an enormous amount of money, and I'm sure that the way it is done is carefully monitored. Then I come to what a government review makes very important in its report, that a great and effective surveillance must be on this route. I mentioned earlier in my discussion that in Sweden there are about One hundred experts own tax fields, which work solely in monitoring the part-way improvement. It is clear, then, that this is the time for us to make a real effort. It is very strange to make such a trip with so much money in it that there is no room for an active check to be applied and the resource was active. This suggests, as a government reexamination, that the part - time work route has been used to ensure pay forwards and to support employers because of contracting and maintaining recruitment relationships. That, of course, is positive, and what was suggested at the outset. The report also shows that despite the government's emphasis on the part - time process, support for viable enterprises that had lost a lot of income, it seems that there was some freedom in the interpretation of the law. The new partner of the part-time work ethic is an enterprise and a business community that has a powerful management system and the economy, but it cannot be seen from the law or from the law that such was the intention of the Lawgiver. Some companies have reported that they have stopped using this route or offered reimbursement, as we know. I understand there are over 50 companies. However, it is also interesting to note in the report that rural society and public members use this option. Cases have been observed, including in the media, despite the fact that the legislation and the proposed information on the part of the legislatator were not intended for companies and their employees. It is of great interest that reports on the part-change process that we discuss and is available to extend the bill under discussion. A government's decision to support employers has called unpredicted economic conditions on the part of the government to expand the right to unemployment. This should, of course, be taken under it. Even so, it is urgent to be monitored for the use of government funds, as expressed by Government Accounting, and that the place is a guard for the interests of the state's funds and that its contributions take into account the will of the legislature, which has obviously been neglected. Regarding discussions about the extent and cost of the bill on the extension of the lead, it is noted that if not reached this decision, it might have been necessary to face the same costs elsewhere in the government business. It refers to the cost of living in the rural community as well as to the financial resources paid on notice. Government reviews emphasize that uncertainty about the development of business conditions and the economic situation of seven individual enterprises is uncertain whether and how much money would have fallen on the state's budget if it had not been a part - time job route. It's good and right to keep it up. This is especially true in cases where a business with a strong business and a strong economy is making good use of the resources. Clearly, companies have taken advantage of the route, despite not having immediate business and financial problems. A government opinion that for good reason would have been to revise the activities of the part-time work route and react, as it would be thus endeavoring to replace the resource with only those to whom it is intended to assist. There is much interesting in this report, which is essential for members of the Parliament to read and review. True, the committee has produced this and must be carefully reviewed. I expect so, including. in the management and monitoring committee, and the report will be presented to the budget. But it is vital to include her in the discussion. The result is that monitoring by the labour oce is very important and from the time the labour agency opened up for unemployment applications along with a reduced labour rate, the Agency's emphasis was on ensuring the implementation of more controlled surveillance. The Agency has been reporting a checkup, that will be increased as the pressures on employees are reduced. But I am putting up with questions on whether this amount of stress should have been exposed to the Labour Department simply by increasing the number of employees temporarily, only to monitor, because there is an enormous amount of money in the game and this is the tax of the public being used in these products. Other countries have active surveillance and are asked if they are planning to have a follow-up at later stage when the work programme is not slightly late. Mr. President. The result of a report by the Government Review, which made the initiative a very positive part-way check, is the need for effective monitoring of the measures immediately and to see if employers meet specific financial and financial conditions. It is proper to say that the report was only being received by members of the Parliament today and is an important part of the discussion presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u125	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a committee party with a bill-change proposal to legalize a ten-per-car vehicle law, No. 134/2001, a case on employment authorisation. The Environment and Transport Committee is considered to be 733th case, the bill itself is in place. 1,325, but the article is on it. 1496. The committee has discussed the matter and has contacted its representatives from the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs, from the Association and then the next nine cab drivers. The committee received a review from the head of the Presidency Association and then the Committee received memos from the Department of Transport and Federal Affairs and the Ministry of Economics and Economics. The bill in itself is simple and is primarily designed to ensure the equality of a cab driver so that everyone is authorized to enter a work permit, whether they have had a two-year or less employment permit. So the bill suggests that we have a tenet law, no. 134/2001, will be added to the provisional provision of tenants who have had a work permit for less than two years, can allow a work permit for the duration of the provision, but it is suggested in temporary requirements to this date on December 31, 2020. The bill is aimed at providing them with the same opportunity to respond to the contracting contractions due to Covid-19 and contract drivers who have been hired for two consecutive years and which, on the basis of current legislation, can enter the work permit. So this case is a reaction to Covid-19. The motion assumes that they can deposit and apply unemployment benefits in the same way that cab drivers with their new employment license for two consecutive years. The commission is that the period from the entry of the law to December 31st, 2020, marks the time frame of the bus driver's license to be hospitaled. Secondly the admissions apply to the same procedure as the general application procedure for the employment permit. In handling the case of the committee, there were two major issues. On the one hand, regarding the interaction of the proposal with the cabby's license to obtain a reduced pay on the price of a car and the interaction with the terms of repairs. In short, after a survey by the Committee, the result was that there was no need for particular attention to this interaction, but I intend to review the basis for that conclusion, as mentioned in the Committee. I'm going to start by talking about reimbursement fees on employment licenses. The committee held the view that the change in law would generally not be useful to taxi drivers, since most of them had enjoyed a reduction in the price of a car's purchase. When admission of the employment permit within two years of the newly registered vehicle, the requirements for the reduction of the product tax are no longer met and the payment will be fully paid in such cases. The Commission notes that the proposed reduction measures are included in Regulation No. 331/2000, the product charge of vehicles, with subsequent changes. The protocol is in the Department of Economic and Economic Work, with all cab drivers who have used the reduction in the price of a car on the market, regardless of how long they have had a job permit to drive a cab. A memo published by the Committee requested from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs stated that the procedure was in such a way that the granting of a tax payment on a taxi car would be checked to see if the hired driver has a work permit and the conditions in general would not be considered at the later stage of the procedure. For this reason, a joint assessment by the Ministry and the IRS is not necessary to address the need for the comment that a taxi driver who is already enjoying the provision of the product and who temporarily submits his work permit gets into the situation of reimbursement, provided that he meets other conditions for it. With reference to the above, the Commission concluded that taxi drivers who are already enjoying the postponing of a tax account can use temporary access to Article 1. the bill for hospitalisation without any interference with the subsequent administration of existing product fees. Then, in the opinion that came up and in terms of the part-change process. The Committee concluded whether taxi drivers should be able to make good use of a so - called partial subsidies through payments against a decrease in employment rate instead of the application of employment permit and the payment of unemployment improvements. Then it was discussed whether a taxi driver should drive a taxi car to a job that, according to the law on taxi cars, would prevent the part - time benefits offered to trespassers. The Commission called for information from the Department of Transport and Regional Affairs on its right effect if the condition was removed. A memo received by the Ministry states that the purpose of the legislatator with the condition was to provide a specific offer for a public taxi service. A report on the provision of salaries would not change the fact that cab drivers would have to enter a work permit if they were not going to use it. It would be the job of a labour agency to interpret the effect such on the right to unemployment improvements or partial benefits. The Commission agrees with these views and therefore feels that there is no direct connection with the purpose of the bill, to balance the right of the permit to hospitalisation. In this regard, the partial reform and the potential of a taxi driver for its use are considered by the Commission to fall outside the topic area of the Environment and Transport Committee, as it is determined by the General Assembly. In addition, adjustments in this way are out of harmony with the objective and content of the existing bill. Legal legislation is subject to the payment of unemployment improvements or partial improvements, as well as to how individual persons are treated, on the topic matter of welfare committees. Then these two opinions have been explained. The Commission suggests one small change in the bill for greater clarity in order to cancel any ambiguity that a taxi driver needs to start a job permit for her admission. It's 5 mg. Count 9. the law on cab vehicles requires that those who are given a job license to drive a cab begin using it within six months of the day of publication, otherwise the license will fail. The responsible veterinarian shall then keep the first employment permit on a continuous basis for two years prior to the first hospitalisation. In the opinion of the Committee, the current bill is not clear whether the employment authorisation must be initiated at the time of hospitalisation based on the temporary warrant in Article 1. and whether there was no longer enough permission within six months after the day of publication. The Commission suggests that the purpose of the legislation intended to respond to contractures in the rental car market for Covid-19 is that a taxi driver must have started his employment permit to have a chance to deposit it. In order to eliminate all the bickering of the above mentioned, the commission suggests the change in Article 1. the bill that it clearly states that a cab driver needs to start a job permit for the admission. It doesn't matter whether a cab driver started using a work permit before or after the law's arrest. The Commission suggests that the bill will be accepted with the adjustment proposed here. Under the writings of Chairman Bergþór Ólason, Ari Jón Gunnarsson, Kolbeinn Sævarsdóttir Proppé, and Árnason. Hanna Katrín Friðrk's Friðriksson was absent from the case, Hjaltason Gautiça writings in advance, and Leví Gunnarsson's son, an officer on the committee, is in agreement with this view.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u126	Mr. President. I measure to the opinion of the 3rd memory of the General and Education Committee on the bill for the Schools of Students. First only about the bill in general, which has positive things to store and includes a long timely review of the law on the Icelandic loan Fund. There has been a long period of time before that request had to be revised. It is simply that governments who want to protect the university environment, governments who want the way of university education as much as possible, governments who want to bet on university education and research have to live in such a way that students will be helped and given the means to pursue their studies. Economic support for students and a student's loan system is a basic precept for ensuring equality for study and the learning loan system as well as the government's means of showing their support for university education. A study system thus answers governments to how governments want to provide equality for study. Reverence agrees with the goal of the bill to ensure university students equal opportunity for study, regardless of their economic situation, by providing students with financial assistance in the form of student loans but also in the form of scholarship. In this regard, it will not be avoided to say that what is called a scholarship in the bill and what this bill preaches is perhaps primarily in the form of the reimbursement of the student loan. It is not really that the bill might be spoken of as offering a scholarship, as we know it, to the Norwegian model, a scholarship to students. This is much more than an arrangement for reimbursement. This is in the light of what the bill's name may not be meaningful enough about its content or content. Education, that word suggests that the matter is more than a reevaluation of a loan system. Of course, the funds will still be largely a loan and a loan fund, and from that end, of course, they should not disappear. But I feel that I have a slightly different appearance. The exact time and situation of the bill cannot be totally overlooked. Although the bill has a long pregnancy period, this is the case when we are in the position to face a financial crisis. We are in a conversation here about economic actions to deal with these situations, and therefore we should be in a conversation about the future. Under the circumstances now in Icelandic society, the possibility and the future could and should have been watched and sent political messages that governments are now determined to invest in university education, invest in research, and invest in innovation. An important point is to have a well - established college education and to ensure that university education can be accomplished without concomitant need of securing alimony with a job. We all know that this is and has been a reality of Icelandic university students for a long time. When that background is clear and that position is clear to the government, we will continue to attract people to study and perhaps even to an increased degree. In this regard, we can bear in mind the circumstances in the job market, and this may be one of the tools we employ in making university education available to some who live without a job. But by offering a scholarship along with a powerful loan system, we also make sure that students can complete their studies at an acceptable time and that they live under the circumstances of being able to do the study only but not by secular work or secular work. In this way, we make sure that a student's career is fast, and we recognize that both students and the community are all for good. In this regard, it is stated that Icelandic students in general have more financial concerns than other European students. For some reason, college students in Iceland are older than walking and going elsewhere in the North countries. Also, it is a well - known situation that many young people in the United States study for a long time, and I don't think that there's a very foolish conclusion to link it to the reality that we all work together. Of course it affects learning speed and progress. Hence, it is important to have a clear answer to a student loan, a loan in favor of students, that is enough to provide for them. I'm sorry, but I don't think the bill is completely about it, and I'm staying a bit at that point. While there are certain promises here, the goal is clear in the bill that is good, but our experience with quality loans tells us that this needs to be clear here, and here it needs to be framed in some way and it needs to be better. I feel that there is a lack of a sense of responsibility in these matters, and I miss not seeing this particular point that may be the focus of the student's knowledge of benefits during the course of study. Experience there simply speaks for itself. In fact, the forwarding has not been successful; it has not provided the circumstances for students to survive it. According to the bill reviews, it is a theme that I agree that the basic development has been too low for students to support without work, without being at the same time at work. It gives, as I mentioned earlier, the idea that when students have to work at the same time as students, it is a failure to reduce the rate of study and academic success. It's not just a studio, it's costing us as a community. Then perhaps it has become a bit bibid at the expense or savings because of having the advancement in this way, of course, it costs us as a community that college students stay in school for a long time. It is also so that when a study is prolonged, it increases the likelihood of falling away and the unity that students have achieved because the study is not completed. All of us are benefiting from the practice of study in close harmony and in a normal pace and in order for students to finish their course. Sure there's 2mg. 2.g. The bill (s) stipulated that a student's staging loan should be sufficient to cover the general cost of living in Iceland during studies, taking into account family size and habitat. It's very good. It's a good thing that that's clearly said in there. But there is no doubt that this goal is guaranteed, that it is actually done in some way. The bill doesn't tell you exactly what it means, and I miss it. Does it involve, and it's the wish, the position of the government that here should do considerably better in chosen students than it has been? Then I return to my experience, it's her concern that there may be less changes in her than the bill shows. The experience we have based on current law, and it says the same thing. This is the same frame goal, that a stipulation loan should be sufficient for a student to run a stream of general cost of living. Yet, that has not been the case. This goal of the law has not been fully achieved. Students have long lived in terms that are out of harmony with reality cost of living. This point is probably the most important part of the bill in my mind, and as I say, it simply isn't clear enough and ensures that the bill achieves its aims. A major factor involved in the advancement of students is not found in the bill but will be applied to existing distribution rules, which are normal. However, the circumstances now are ideal, perhaps requiring that contributions are greatly improved, which should be made to ensure the implementation of students. This makes me feel like back to what I mentioned earlier, that the context at which we are discussing a complete review of these laws cannot be totally cut off. In the circumstances that exist, in the economic lowness we are in, there is a good time, the time, to simply take a decisive political stand for our university education and our college students. That is why this is a suggestion to increase the support of students with direct scholarships. We see this as an aid in how we will look to the future after this economic depression. The bill puts much emphasis on the budget of loans. It is of good things, and are many positive steps where we rejoice. On the other hand, a future view of university education rests just as much on how we guarantee equality for study and the survival of students during study and as much as on the way of making sure that our loans will be reimbursed, though there are positive steps that we take under and celebrate. But they also need to ensure the survival of students who are currently in school and students who will eventually go to college. Compared to the focus, there's a lot on the bill that directly targets the reimbursement but the credit factor. In fact, you seem to find that the focus is to support the interests of those in need of loans but not to do as much for students who are in school, but are still in the position of borrowing. In this regard, I refer to a discourse given to members of Congress by the National Institutes of England, which says, by permission of the president: Nonetheless, it is important to accept the fact that there is still a lot of work to be done before a student's object is properly repaired and that the previous goals are met. - The National Association considers this to be only the first step in Icelandic loans. The University of Iceland's School of College also made a decision today, which pointed out that according to Article 2. The bill on straddling loans and school loans will remain under the Board of Education to determine the basic extension of loans each year. The student council criticizes the arrangement and laments that the bill does not follow further instructions for the administration to ensure proper implementation for students. So they call for a clearer promise and a clearer political bitch, I'd like to say. Although I agree with the conclusion that it is not right to enter a dollar number into this bill, as to which the move should be, there are other ways to make sure that the forward is effective. I've tore up key comments, and at the same time, I've decided that we support the situation. Here are some positive changes. There are some good things there, and, of course, the bill has been building and treating for a long time. But that is why my case is saying that there are certain changes that exist in the process of making changes. They are basically related to two important things. On one hand, the red thread in what I've been saying, making sure that the basic development is sufficient for students during the course of study. This will be done in such a way that a stipulation loan should be minimized unless the Social Ministry consumption criteria add to the cost of living and taking into account the family size of a student and a homemaker. That is the way we want to go to make sure that the good goals of the bill work, for experience tells us that there is more to come than goals. This good political message that we see in the bill needs to be framed clearly, it needs to be clearly framed, and that's the idea behind this proposal. On the other hand, students also request a scholarship. It's an idea that's setting up a negative role model, and we know it from there. It is based on the fact that students studying who qualify for a loan and who produce certain results or units can apply for a scholarship to make progress. The move is stated in the form of a volume of $72,000. a month compared to a full course of study. It also explains that the amount of this scholarship will change at the beginning of each school year, in proportion to the change in index price, and that it will be published in distribution regulations and remain unchanged for the entire month of that school. Part 3 is less evaluation that these adjustments include a clearer, more powerful proposal and a real student improvement in the course of study. It is important to look into it, when this overall re-examination of the law is becoming reality, and to build up this system for the future, so that it will be useful both during the course of study and after it is completed and in the form of the recovery system. Again, I would like to refer to the present situation, in these discussions about economic action, as we are looking at how we will react in a shorter time than part of how we react in a shorter period of time, our vision being longer. I don't feel that I can break this discussion today about this matter from the position we are in and that we can only bear it in mind now, when this matter is being discussed, that, with these proposals, we are going to look forward to the interests of students and at the same time as a whole of university education, looking forward to the road and proclaiming political politics in education. It is clear to us that our response in this matter is one of the responses to how we will respond for a long time in education. These adjustments, in my opinion, include a wise way and a good investment to the future that will benefit all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u127	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good speech and the opinion of the committee, and I completely agree with the senator that being progressive in education is a multiplies. It is an investment that always comes back a great deal. Yes, it is a vast system change that has long been called for, as the senator did in his talk. The objective of the structural change is amongst others. equalizing the support of students, making the system more reasonable and transparent and smaller, and reducing them. After school, people's pay loads are over. For most people, this is far better than the current system that has long walked to the skin. I think most people agree on that, too. I can see at the committee factor 3 my share, and as the senator was very careful in speaking, the restoration is pleased mostly with the changes being made in the forward process, and I am glad to hear it. The majority also discussed the implementation of their members and are in the same region, but it has to be natural to provide. I would present the senator with an explanation of 2. Er, I don't have time to read it, but we both have this data, which shows what's on it. It's turning into the way this is done in the other North countries. We can take it next time. I'd like to hear the senator's speculation about this, i.e. The explanation of 2 g. and what is underneath.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u128	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer and the speech. She considered the goals behind the bill, and the steps she has taken are positive, and she is right in that the attitude of the restoration is positive for this bill as it is in its entirety. The comments were given on the 2nd floor. Of course, we have, as other members of the council, considered them and the adjustments made. What remained to us, however, was the point of the article as it is, and its objective is to convey unchanged from the Law, the promise, and the way to achieve the good purpose of the bill. It would be achieved by the means of which the 3rd minority contributes to this binding so that there was some promise behind what it means to proclaim in the bill to the core growth of student loans sufficient for further development. Because it refers to the move north, it is the same theme as that of the other proposal. If the point of the question was to specify whether there are differences in vision, then the less part of the finding is that by this means binding it in this way at the Social Ministry consumption criteria, this goal can be tested and that students can be assured of the ideals published by the bill. And then, on the other hand, by going in the way of preaching in sort of a real way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u129	Mr. President. With the permission of the president, I would like to read from paragraph 2. The senator and I agree that we are not talking about putting a dollar in the bill, but in an explanation of 2 g. says: ▪ It may be difficult to verify what a dollar is enough for a student to make a living and pursue his study. Where 3. The current law states that a student's loan should be sufficient for any student to provide them is suggested to add the word "general," in front of the word "appearance," to make it clear that the funds are not obliged to be paid on the basis of individual spending. The calculation of a database has been based on baseline consumption criteria from the Ministry of Social Affairs and is calculated based on an increase in the index of consumer prices from Iceland's Habitats each year. This includes supplementary loans that are due to necessities (food, housing, etc.) and other special circumstances Just so I'll put this together a little, I think it's very clear. The objective is that people can actually survive the loan and that, based on the baseline consumption criteria from the Ministry of Social Affairs, they are calculated based on an increase in the index of consumers from Iceland's Habitats every year. I'd like to get a little more detailed explanation so that I can get a good grasp of the details of our differences. There was a request in the discussion earlier this week to take the matter back into the interview committee, and I assume that it is only natural to do so. But I still don't quite understand it, I think we agree, but somehow not, since a senator saw the reason to make special adjustments. [[The president calls.]] I wanted to hear a little more about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u130	Mr. President. I just start at the same place I did just a minute ago, I think it's just that the bill, as it seems in its entire appearance, is a positive attitude. The other is so just legal, if we want to and are going to go all the way with the frame of the message and the meaning. This will simply make it more successful and will make it more clear that these are the goals of the arrangement itself. There is a difference between having general references in a report and what is placed in it. Of course, it is also stated that, on the other hand, the suggestion is being made, there are two important points being made, but there is a scholarship that really is a monthly payment for students. It may be just as much the big political messages and the political objective of supporting students in this way as at college in general sees that we are going that way, bringing us closer to the Norwegian model in a vision of the value and importance of university education by offering scholarship to students.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u131	Mr. President. We'll talk about 2nd. bill to legalize the Scholars' Education Fund. Hv. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir has already reported in this discussion the committee's list of parts of the General and Education Committee and the changes we propose on the bill. I'm one of the people who sign the committee opinion of the greater part. Although I am not going to trace all its contents in a talk, I would like to use my time to explain and discuss some of the adjustments made by a greater proportion of the Board of Education, 2. The objective of a bill on the Scholars' Education Fund is to include: to promote the support of students, to promote a better course of study, and to create a more righteous and modern educational loans. We thought that there was a number of factors that we could be able to make a little effort to accomplish those goals further. There I would like to start talking about what can be said at the end of a student's loan. It's about the payment of student loans according to 20. In the treatment of the matter, it was pointed out that there was a significant task to be discussed as if it were written there. We in the greater part, and I believe that all the committees, at least I have not heard anyone say anything else, agree with this, because while we agree with the goal and the premium that is laid out in the bill, borrowing back loans before age 65, there may be some things that will not work out. Therefore, it is very important not to pay off the loan, but to start off some injury and to see how people who have been paying off their student loans until they can finish it. In fact, it will be this way if there are special circumstances to make up for health reasons, and paying off the loan is not going to last, in part, to cancel the loan's head seat. This is important to us, for at the same time when it is important for people to pay back the loans they borrow, they too need to be reasonable in them, and if circumstances change, they can be met. In other words, a change to 23rd degree may be said. Partly submit to the same laws. This article discusses the postponement of reimbursement. A greater proportion of the General and Education Committee contributes to further refinement of the Agency's sources in order to allow the release from payments when the situation calls for it. Of course, there are many things that can happen in a person's life that make it impossible for him to pay from his student loans in the way that was suggested, longer or shorter, and hopefully in most cases just less time. I think these changes are vitally important to the long future of this system. That's what we're putting on when we're making such a big system change, as is being done on the basis of academic loans. There are quite a few changes in preliminary terms to the bill. Most of these are linked to measures established by the government in connection with the implementation of collective agreements. They will be legalized here as temporary regulations in this bill. It is, in fact, there. Based on recent loans and on conditions for such delinquency as well as on payment or payment on student loans and down payment on loans. There is one adjustment proposal for a preliminary principle on the Scholarship of Students in the greater part of the General and Education Committee. It shows that in some respects the criteria have changed from the fact that this bill was proposed for the pandemic of Covid and its economic consequences. Unemployment has increased, and governments are urging people to pursue further studies, thus making good use of the bad results of the job situation. The bill expects people over 35 years of age to pay only fixed payments, not income - related payments. So we suggest that for the next three years, even those 35 years of age and older who choose to have income - related pay if they choose to do so. I think it matters because of the community situation we now have. Experience with this will be considered as of three years when it is also suggested that a full review of these laws and their implementation be carried out. Because we're here to make a huge system change, I think it's also very important to review how it turned out. Therefore, in a large part of the General and Education Committee, we would like to introduce the results of this overall review no later than in 2023 at the Fall Summit. There are other adjustments that we make in the greater part of the General and Education Committee but I've been here through those I believe are the most successful, and I think it would be better. I hope that after this discussion they will be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u132	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss the new bill on High Education, which is at the same time a very thick and dense bill, bringing about great changes. There are a lot of good things in the bill, I have to say, and long ago it's time to change the level of education on the land, and I'm especially glad that the study is being strengthened. I would like to first mention a news story on The Kingdom Radio in the beginning of September of last year, where the highest. The Minister of Education said she wanted the Icelandic loans to be competitive with the Norwegians, and I agree with them. The report also said that the number of student loan applications in the LIN has decreased by half in the past ten years. It tells me that the fund has not worked as it should. Therefore, there is good reason to attack a change in the Icelandic student's loan fund, which is here known as the Education of Education. On the General Education Committee, we had a education fund to discuss at the seven committee meetings and had many visitors for the committee, as it is necessary to discuss this important subject. Already the matter has been called back to the Committee between 2 and 3. Um... which is very good. I'd like to mention the last thing that's going on in the Committee's list of things, which I'm looking for in advance, but it's not much. That's the point where the law has to be revised. The speaker who spoke before me mentioned this point in particular, and I agree with it. The Act should be considered in cooperation with the General and Education Committee and the Economic and Business Committee. I'm not gonna talk much about this. I just wanted to mark myself on it, like it's called. But there's one thing I think it's important to come in on, that's the number of employees at the fund about 15 status values. That's the point I'll discuss in particular when we get the case back to the Committee. Now 35 people working on the fund, I think. I realize that, of course, when things get more complicated, they have to be added, but I think it's kind of done well. The reason why I mention it is that it is nowhere in a memo we received from the Ministry of Education why the 15 people are growing. It is necessary for us in this room to be informed what is behind, even though I know that there will be a more complex loan system and that the service will be increased, thereby providing additional information and individual approach. Those in need of student loans to have the right to earn an adequate means of living. It's been discussed here that we need to set this standard up, and I think everybody agrees on it. It is attempted to meet people with various benefits, if we can call them, depending on the number of children and the like. But how important it is to be thought to be revised when it comes to making a general review of the order around the fund and to see how it has worked out! We know that the loan fund of Icelandic students is now inflamed with money because people don't borrow, which is probably because they don't seem favorable. This may be due especially to the way the loan needs to be paid back. It is also difficult for people to study, and especially now, as the previous speakers have been involved. In the situation in society, students find it hard to get a job, and it is quite unfair that students do not have a chance to make money, since their wages are also paid in the employment insurance system. I would like to commend governments for creating these jobs, called summer jobs. There may not be enough of them, but we'll see the locals bring their own pot, which may be useful to someone, at least I hope. The problem can then be summed up in that students have many uncertainties, and this is especially the financial uncertainty they are concerned about. At the same time, when many begin to study, they start farming and household living, and it is costly and difficult to find an inexpensive home. So once again we're talking about the stratosphere points. I think that there's only any ideas that we would have done better to cancel responsibility. We received a memo from the Ministry of Education, that I rather than the Ministry of Economics and Economics, that it was too costly to pay. But let us see if this is the case. That's an important point that shows up in the course of study. And it is important that there are laws such as those with dyslexia, learning problems, etc. I think that's a very good point, and it's really good to be taken to do that. I repeat again and again that it is important to consider this matter after three years, as many have shown. I'd like to mention just one idea; although I haven't said that in my speech here, I remember a good professor who taught me at the University of Iceland who spoke about ECTS units in Icelandic as an accelerator. I'd appreciate it, since we're talking about Icelandic study, we'd be in Icelandic shorts and talk about acres instead of ECTS units. That's when I'm done with my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u133	A respectable president. First, I'm going to repeat what most speakers have climbed. The old loan system to be replaced by a student's education fund has long since gone and completely ceased to serve its purpose. You can see it, for example. Because at the same time that we have seen growth in a number of college students year after year since the beginning of this century, the number of credit recipients in LIN has decreased. A few years in a row, LIN has turned in some of the budgets estimated for the fund, which is just for me that the fund has failed. The role of the loan fund is to get all the funds that the funds provide for the lender. So it is not excessive to say that this is a timely change. We can also ask ourselves, " What is the effect of this situation? ' Because the students have not worked too hard, they have had to rely on academic work, which is likely to delay a student's career. We've come to realize now that it's made them more likely to be affected by the Covid ice cream. When the economy started to slow down in the spring, students who lost their jobs with schools, coffee shops, or whatever they worked to support themselves were the first students. Since the growth of LIN is not intended to cover the year, it is always calculated to allow people to work nine months in school and three hours at summer, students are also even more vulnerable to not finding jobs during the summer. It wouldn't be as big a problem if it had worked like a loan in recent years. To illustrate how far this journey has been, it is no surprise to remember that in 2011, the current Ministry of Education and Culture appointed a committee to reconsider the law on LIN. Since then, several applications have been made. Regardless of what we think of the bill or the changes in it, how glad we are that the process is finally taking place and establishing a better system! This is a step in the right direction. There are many benefits in the bill, and even more on the changing proposals, as we have seen. But you can be absolutely wondering why we take just one step, but we don't finish the overall review. It is a little unusual, as indicated by the changes in the proposals of more of the General and Education Committee, that the Committee suggests that total revised laws on this issue will be adopted and then passed through another total review in three years. It may show how large the project is, that the council did not last that whole winter, although strangely, to finish the matter so that it could last longer than three years, I may not say all the time. The 1st. I wondered if it was being increased support, or arranged for it. Looks like it's pretty much a little bit of a test to me. Yes, 14 billion are being added by provisional regulations; otherwise, the bill has been prepared from a particular formula. The companies were financing in a similar area and have been so that the strength share is going to vary from 61⁄27 billion, but the loans have been estimated to be 56.5 billion, which is, from the state's fund, not a major change, and then the credit cut is intended to be sustainable, so that the loans of the previous creditors will maintain systems for their current creditors. There's something to be reviewed on the next round. It may be a good thing to see that this is a complete review at three years' time. If we are going to have a system that encourages study, we may be able to buy something, or we may not just cost them something. We have discussed some social equations of the fund, and particularly about how the funds are used to make it possible for everyone to study independently of income and background in other respects. It is very important to maintain that goal. Perhaps there is one more factor that has been promoted, that is the range of ages that are drawn to distinguish between the choice between income - related cities and those that are not at 35 years of age. This is another example in which the basic requirement was actually given. It's just a line that was decided to draw at an earlier level at the Ministry, and then all the criteria were calculated according to that. The members of a greater part of the General and Education Committee discuss this with women in particular, which is highly justified. We know all the stories of women who have young children and complete some basic education, but as their children grow up, they feel the need and finally have the opportunity to pursue further education. The system should not overreach them, even though they have reached the age of 35 before they reach that situation. This too matters in even greater context. This is about the fourth industrial revolution, which is about the possibility that certain sectors will not exist. What are we going to do with the people who work there? We do not want it taken into the long - term lack of employment. Rather, our education system needs to be able to catch people and help them to develop skills that are useful in other areas. The same is true of the changes that lie ahead because of climate change in which society has to change and whole sectors could no longer exist. Then there is the need to make sure that their transition is reasonable by helping people to move from past gray work to their green work in the future. A few earlier talks have been made regarding how the emphasis on change proposals and, to a large extent, the whole matter is on compensation for former credit recipients. I think I'm correct in saying that the provisional principle that covers some 14 billion more that the greater part of the Committee suggests is about the agreement between governments and BHM because of the commitments made by older students. The following are students with a system perhaps more understandable and more reasonable in many respects, but that is not the overall review they were calling for. Then I'd like to take a little more than anything in the matter, but it's how we're dealing with stakeholders who have much to do with it in this case of students. I was sitting, for example. A meeting of the General and Education Committee at the end of November, where the student council of the University of Iceland came before the committee and explained its very detailed review, but due to discussions with the previous guests, there was less time to be, but had to be, and the committee did not get involved with the studioentans as much as it would have been good. This suggests a student's recommendation in a conclusion made earlier today, that it has only been allowed to attend this one meeting of the committee to review its key comments, but there are a number of points that have not been clearly understood, and these are many that are not covered in the suggestions of the larger section. So there is plenty of work to be done before the total reexamination that is scheduled within the age of three to achieve proper consideration for the views that have not been achieved. I also think it's kind of cute to see--what should you call it, it's kind of a smart thing. Students suggest that the interest on which the greater portion is concerned will be appreciated, for it is a well - founded and reasonable suggestion. The students put 3% of the money on loans and 7% on insolence, while the proposal for a track is 4% and 9%. So they come to meet the studio, but not entirely. This is particularly interesting to me because these student figures were nothing loose, they were based on analysis, they were very careful suggestions. What has been described by students in this case is that they do not say to me that it seems to me that there is a way to talk, but rather they base their language on statistical information that they obtain through surveys by their clients, analysis by counselors, and experts. Then there's the big thing that would have been involved in the bill, i.e. The basics. The basic benefit of a single student is 185,000. per month. This is about half minimum wage. That's why LAIN is a damaged system. It must be fixed if we are not soon going to have the new student's education fund as ruined as the old system. And then we can only discuss the overall context in this conversation we have here and students, because the loans have always been expected for a nine-month-year-old career. It's time to create summer work for students following a seemingly two - month tire due to Covid. A nine-month student loan plus two months' summer work is 11 months' advance per year, which I think is 12 months for students like for others. This might not be as much a problem if students had been guaranteed the right to unemployment improvement in this strange summer, as was recommended here in this hall a few weeks ago but not realized. We can also carefully examine other activities that are under attack for students. A large amount of money was added to the scholarship fund for students just to reach out for people who do not find work for the summer. Remuneration from the New Creation Fund is 300,000 k. During a month, they do not achieve the minimum wage, as is the credit cut forward. Then, at the same time, we quickly charge students at various levels. The university has already brought in on nearly a hundred thousand dollars that students must remember. When the total income of a single student who fills his average free income doesn't reach 3 million a year, there are 100,000 dollars. in enrolling for study. So I wondered about the overall reexamination within three years, whether it would be necessary to look overall above the platform and not just to consider a system of filing students, but also also to work to make government reimbursement to be remembered to make study real for everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u134	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his excellent speech and review. He came in many places, but I may have wanted to hear from the senator again, so I understand him correctly, I thought he was a bit off, and in: Are we sure we agree that the bill in front of us is a great improvement for students? This is a change in the direction to level support and to reduce the amount of payment, and most students will be better off following this massive system change than is now. This is also a social equation device, shown in many parts of the bill, and many new ones are there. I just wanted to understand more clearly what the senator said about the student movement, that the movement had come to the committee, and that it didn't seem that he had got enough space at that meeting. In fact, students now turned in their comments, such as the rest of their clients and stakeholders and, like a whale, what they did. A senator knows this, in the treatment of committees, that a lot of stakeholders are listed with reviews and often differs from viewpoints to which members of the committee should weigh and make decisions that are designed to be handled at the council. I wondered: " Does the senator feel that the committee should have applied completely to what the students suggested and ignored other indications? [[The president calls.]] There are now many more things here, I have a long list, but let's start with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u135	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I thought I had now quite clearly said that this case would be an improvement, but it wouldn't be as much as I'd wanted to have seen. In fact, I believe that the majority of the Committee agree with me on that. At any rate, he would hardly suggest total reexamination of the law at the same time, suggesting that the case be made legal. If this case were perfectly and completely improved, it wouldn't have to be done. With regard to stakeholders, it is true that we do not always apply fully to the interests of stakeholders, but we do not often have a case that affects one particular group of students, he or she does. That's why I would have at least it would be desirable for students to have the space at committee meetings to complete their comments. It is not just something that students felt lacked. I was sitting at that meeting and knowing they couldn't get through all their comments. Their comments contain quite a few things. Although I mentioned a few things, the senator is expected to have the same e - mails and conclusions, and he has brought it to me and other members of the council today and yesterday. In most cases, this is the point where the other stakeholder is the Ministry, the financial authority that just decided that this was the case. [[The president calls.]] It is not necessarily the stakeholder who should weigh more than the students themselves. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u136	A respectable president. The decree given to the senators is long, turning to a number of points, but I can assure the senator that all the points presented there were discussed on the committee and were taken into account. That's not to say, as I said before, that in all things all the remarks of students are followed. Of course, the matter was discussed back and forth, as the senator knows. He himself mentioned earlier that the case first came to a committee on November 5th. This is the third time at the General Assembly, so the work on the case has been very careful, and members of the committee have endeavored to examine it and all its smells. The reason why a three - year bill of revision is set, not because the members of the committee consider it a bad one, but because it is not a good one. As the senator said earlier, people like him are still alive. wondering about the sex effect. This can be said only after the law has gone into effect and has gained experience in it. The senator can tell himself. The same is true of many other fundamental factors, which repeatedly appear in the evidence, such as the members of the case, and the senator thus began his speech, has declined as a student's loan. We don't know, e.g. taking into account the Covid pandemic, how many people will be applying for a loan in the months and years to come, how old they will be, and by what gender. It's a little self-involved. So naturally the Committee suggests that this is the way it should be done, i.e. this is a basis for evaluating the effect after three years because it cannot be known by any human at present. [[The president calls.]] But I'm gonna make it work this time. Time's up. [[President: The President reminds us of the good practice at hand. The senators address each other as respectful.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u137	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. Regarding the student movement that they were not all listened to, it is something we heard, too, when they came before the committee in November, how the commission based on the bill was conducted. You see, students experience that they are in line with part of the route and then, in the event of a relapse, are broken out, and someone else will handle the final outcome. The students who attended the Review Committee were not at all informed of all the costs of the Ministry and were not at all at peace. So when I hear the senator say that not everything is done by student wishes, I get a bit of a dull feeling because the student's wishes are, as I entered my speech, not me just feel, how and they come out of the ether. They are based on evidence and logic, and they are reasonable. Also, the study bar is not a charity, except that here's a little too low, 185,000 k. In a month, as I entered it, the student loan system is one of the very foundations of social prosperity in the future. A well- educated nation will build up Iceland, which is better and has future prosperity so that students' wishes are nothing more than a wish for a better Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u138	The President still reminds us of what he's talking about. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u139	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. Here is an important bill, and much of it is good, which includes the new education fund of students who replace the loan fund of Icelandic students. It is safe to say, and we know that education is society's foundation and one of today's largest social and economic issues. Education is the most fundamental source of employment and innovation in the country, education is the foundation of economic and global competitiveness. Thus, there is much to do in ensuring all social groups access to a suitable education regardless of background or circumstances. This bill, which is a good thing to have finally seen the day's light, is suggested, as we have seen, to introduce a new learning system and a learning loan system. As I said in the beginning, there's a lot of things in the bill that I'm going to do a little better. The main changes from the present network proposed by the bill are that those who complete a degree of testing within the specified time range may obtain a scholarship of 30% from the head of student loan as well as the scholarship to study as a result of a child's extension. I'm especially celebrating the induction of a bone-enforcement system, which students have long waited for a sponsoric system. We have the example from the North countries, as an example, and naturally that we look to them on these topics, I think. Moreover, it is very positive that appears in paragraph 15. the bill on strength from child development. I believe its induction is a major step forward. There are many students who have children in their means, and that, of course, comes with the expense, as everyone knows, so this is a good and positive step in my view. According to the report, a comparative study of the status of European university students in 28 European countries has been conducted, and it shows that Icelandic students are in general worried about their financial situation, which is, of course, a concern and need to take into account the decision and try to find ways to correct it. I hope this bill is part of it. In the bill, the student's credit rates make a big difference compared to the current loan system. In fact, credit rates and interest rates should vary and be based on interest rates offered by a government fund on the market, as stated. It is natural to expect interest to rise unless, as suggested, the interest will be covered, which is very positive. In the present system, interest rates are made by 1% and have been that way since 1992, but student loans did not grow for that time. However, in terms of the growth rate there is a risk of their change, i.e. On the general interest rate of the state. If you had followed the arrangement set up here, the interest would have been much higher, e.g. In the economic crisis, which is why I strongly support this growth. I think that's the wisest way to go, and hopefully that'll be the end. In a report on 17. it shows that the student's loan will continue to be considerably more favorable than a loan market generally offered to individuals, with basic interest based on the same financing rates as the public funds are available on markets. On the other hand, fluctuations are to be assumed. It is clear that students who get the worst out of this system are those who don't get this 30% strength or decomposition. Of course, this is an encouragement to study well, and that is a very good thing. I just wanted to make it clear that what measures to take is not completely clear when discussing the committee that is involved in interest. It's a question of whether it can create false security, as stated by the National Institutes of Iceland, which gave a review of the bill, an excellent report. They suggest that this committee has clear authority and that it serves its purpose. I wanted to get to the next pass from a minimum education career. By 13. it has to be in the hands of a fund manager to recommend the implementation of an exception demand for minimum resistance progression. A defined entry from student wind demand is not considered to be a delay according to Article 14. and, therefore, it is clear that much is at stake for students when applying for notation. In his review, the organization stresses that students must not be unsure whether or not to fall under certain conditions due to changes in distribution regulations but to be as clear as possible in the law. The article has added two factors that can provide an exception from a minimum requirement for learning, which are dyslexia and a specific learning disability. Of course, it's a very positive thing, and I'm especially happy for it. Only on student loans reimbursement. In addition to the prices of the loans that are the only option in the current system, there will be an unsecured loan. Rather than start reimbursement of the loan two years after the end of study, as stated in Article 19. I believe, Mr. President, that one year is a short period of time in that subject, and I hardly do enough to reduce the burden of debt collected by students, as is the case with long-term students. It is known that when a person gets out of school, it is a little hard to pay off his student loans right away. I know this myself, I took a student loan at my time, and it is very important that we not have to pay our loans right away. So I would have liked to see that there would be a change in that subject or at least Just keep the same arrangement as now. Instead of reimbursement, loans in general will be equal loans, such as traditional housing loans and creditors 35 years of age and younger at the end of the study and as secure as loans, allow the choice of income - related payments. The years after study completion can be financially difficult for people, and it is necessary to have more borrowers available to postpone the start of reimbursement. However, there is improvement from the current system of loans to be paid monthly, as shown at 3 mg. 19 g. The bill. A student's program for support in Iceland is so that no support is given unless a loan is borrowed. Thus, students are actually urged to make a debt, and it is noteworthy that they are paid only to borrowers. Then there is a question about those who decide not to borrow, who are able to do so, who may have worked as many students do, that is, natural examples of students wanting to avoid borrowing, and some of whom can, but they do not have access to a scholarship that I consider a little matter of thought. I'd like to mention the comments of a community of medical students in Hungary on the bill. The Society says that by means of the bill, the ability of medical students abroad to study medicine is prevented. These are some serious comments to my judgment. It is mentioned in the bill that the addition of the loan is sufficient for each student to cover the cost of living on the basis of Icelandic production, while the costs for forwarding vary from place to place, as we know, and is careful not to make a more precise account of the fund. The amount calculated for these countries is not guaranteed to students abroad for unexpected gang swings and changes in Icelandic society. In addition, it may be noted that local replacements are defined in the bill and that criteria for which it needs to be met are mostly inexplicable. It's a good thing to think about. It is important for students to be able to practice, e.g. Medical studies abroad because these students are not easy to attend, but we certainly need doctors. Mr. President. Finally, I'd like to come into the cost assessment for the bill only, but I think the most negative thing about the bill is the high cost that comes along with it. As one report on the bill, beneath the cost assessment, estimates that the additional cost of government management will be 175 million. K, including 25 million. K. stock costs during the first year and then 150 million. K. every year. The fund's work will increase and the staff will be expected to increase about 15 people. It is natural to be a significant growth and cost - cost fund for the government, especially in times when it is urgent to make practical adjustments in order to work down the base of a government fund that has come in because of the epidemic. Then there's a bill on the increase in expenses and the number of workers in the lives of 15 people. I think it's a great memory of the bill and that there must be some ways to find so that you don't have to increase the amount of resources you need to raise because of this bill. It's natural to always have jurisdiction and effectiveness in the management of public funds. It is just so that the state's mood has spread in the history of this government, not to see that there have been no attempts to reduce the rate of government activity. That, in fact, is contrary to what the Independence Party has preached. Remembering what the Independence Party minister said a few years ago, that we had to clean up our money and reduce the state's perspective, we look forward to a bill that includes a considerable increase in the number of government workers to a single institution. Year after year the work of the management system in Iceland has grown and the costs it brings and must not forget that this cost is paid by taxpayers. Nor can it be seen that in recent years, there has been a great economy within the board of directors. I have previously stated this from this platform, both in speech and in publication, that it is a long time to attack the public system and reduce its activities and try to reduce the expenses that go to the various institutions of the State. This is something I think must carefully review. When I read the bill, I was surprised to learn that there was such an increase in cost. I don't think it's logical enough here why there is a need to increase the number of employees and would have chosen to be carefully reviewed if this share could not be improved and loan workers would not be growing that much. Of course, it is important that all of these changes work well and that the bill is successful because it is important. But there must be ways to do this in a more inexpensive way. It's my final input into this second fine discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u140	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I think it's a pleasure to hear that we are the most regular people, to agree on the advantages of changing the student loan system and moving us to another form. Likely, this will not be the case with anyone who tries to respond to various comments. I stopped at a few points in a talk. Senator. He even talked about it. Around the 19th floor. and paying back student loans, that they would start a year after the end of the study instead of two years earlier. I wonder why we should do this in a different way than is e.g. around us in the North countries, because there will begin reimbursement, as far as I know, even after the end of the study and the longest fall a year later. We're actually moving closer to that. Of course, we have had two years, so this time is being cut short. Certainly, our circumstances vary from study to study, but there are new references in these laws, the bill remains law, that the loans of student loans can be postponed for up to four years, especially if borrowers continue on loans and are not on student loans at the same time. I'm just wondering about the senator why this should be more difficult for Icelandic students than students in any other country in the North. [[The president calls.]] I see time is over, I was going to come up with another question, but let's start with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u141	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I just look at the fact that it has been good not to pay off student loans for the first two years after study. I've had a personal experience with this myself. It was very good for me at my time when I left the United States when my family, who were expensive, did not have to pay off my student loans until two years later. That has also been logical in my comments. It's a student's will, I think, that it's going to be the same. Whether it affects the position of the fund, I don't realize it. I have certain doubts about it, even if it's kept in the old system. Hv. A senator noted that in the North countries this way, even within a short period of time. This may have been the case with students here, but when students come home to Iceland, it is now, as we know, many more expensive places here in Iceland, housing, and other financial expenses for the family, that may not be quite comparable to the North countries. It may be harder to get back in the community here after studying, and it can be more difficult to cope with the expense of coming home, housing, and the like. I think this two-year rule was a great deal, and I don't think it's totally support for changing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u142	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I mean, it may not be less expensive to live in the big cities of the Northlands than it is here in Iceland, although there are many other factors that may somehow weigh back. Hv. A senator mentioned the committee as a result of the loans and the like. A greater proportion of the committee now contributes to the failure of this committee. Rather, it will be in interest of interest. So that's all wrong, it was because of a bunch of students. They really wanted to move the terms down, and I would have liked to, too, I'm just gonna say it, but this is a conclusion that we're going to compromise with what happened in the bill. I trust that, and in the greater part, we try to reason that there has to be a bit of a disturbance in the community if we go up so high in the interest stage and, in particular, compared to our position today. I think there might be other things that could have come into the propeller before the student loans went into the propeller if interest goes out of control. The other thing I wanted to ask you. A senator on child support for alimony. Other members of the council have mentioned this and have done so. paritaprevir A Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son has a suggestion for a parent to be promoted for children. I think it should come from some other system because, otherwise, we've got a system right next to the system. A student is in a student's loan system, and he gets a 30% down payment if he has completed his scheduled schooling and he is given strength with children. This is so that children's families are equal to those who are finishing their studies, they are being used as an equation device. I asked if the senator would want to do so instead of giving strength to all with children, regardless of whether they would need student loans.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u143	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's response is excellent, and I would like to begin by describing my joys with the adjustment proposals of the majority when it comes to interest issues. I think there's a very reasonable approach and a good landing there. It was shown in the headlines that the stakeholders, students, and others, were worried about it, as was originally suggested. So I'm celebrating, and I'm backing up a suggestion. As for child development, I think this is a good approach in the bill and supports it. I don't think that's necessary. A senator rightly mentioned, being involved with some systems in this. That doesn't make sense. School students and students are greatly justified in getting support for children, and as I mentioned in my talk, it is natural that students who have children and so important that they be able to meet them in some way. You wonder why it's not been done before, I'm just saying right now. I know it myself, I took my family to school abroad, and I needed to get a flow of expenses from the children's schooling, and so on. It's a great justice, and I'm especially happy about it. And as it's suggested, I would say it serves a good purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u144	Mr. President. We're dealing with a bill for a law on the School of Education, which is a great step in my opinion and long time before we're going through here with changes that've been making for years. I think it's safe to say that many Ministers have already attacked the projecting of a bill for a change in LIN. Now we're seeing how things are going, but starting with some kind of uncertainty, certainly. We do not know how many people are involved in this new system of distribution, and as we have seen here, it may not have lived up to its expectations. For some reason, students did not feel that they had benefited from receiving less or less from the fund. In some respects it is that way, and then we also know that when a job is good in society, the need for borrowing is often less. It is true that the Icelanders are working very hard, too, with study, and often it is selective, but not always. I can totally agree that we need to take a good look at the stipulation conditions, and we tried to do so on this matter. We are here to discuss the matter further between discussions at the Committee whether we can cut down a matter of wording just so that the message is sure to get all the way. There are a few things that I think are more important than others, and they've been different. But what I like about this is to keep the growth at a fixed peak, although I'm sure I have more than I would like to keep this level down. This, however, is the conclusion that we make together in order to reach some compromise. As the committee's opinion says, so I return to the production, a stipulation loan is certainly enough for students to make progress. I think it's a very specific wording, but maybe we'll figure it out better. Regarding study and work, it was only in committee discussions that it would often be possible to push people into the ever - changing community, in the fourth industrial revolution, or in what they call all of them, and people would be able to collect from the fund. However, there was a view that the type of study and loans were not clear enough. We make adjustments in order to try to explain this further. The suggestion, in effect, is that studying with a job is primarily a school loan loan because it may be less needed when people are working. In this regard, all of us agree that it is very important to be able to change, as well as not to be overdramatic. That's why we set this limit. But it is also important that things should be stepped in if things do arise or if circumstances in society change in a way that makes things happen even if there is no evidence at the moment. Therefore, I think it is good to have the review in three years, although there may not be much experience in itself. At least then, we will see a combination of the group that will make good use of this new fund. I believe that it is also important, as is emphasized here, that this is often the first loan a person makes during his life, that students receive clear counsel and unconcerned advice on what is best for them, since, of course, people's circumstances are very different. As noted in my objection to the reimbursement of the Committee, after a considerable consideration, we believed that Icelandic students, or students, who took advantage of their right to borrow from the LIN, or from the Highest Fund, were at the same level as the rest of the North countries, i.e. start paying off the loans a year later, and if that were the case, you could apply for a postponement. It's just been over the ages. That was one of the things that we left green were a bit skitatic on in this discussion. Women are known to go to school often and often later. For example, a study of adult life is being conducted here. I think that dating may make a difference, even in the light of the situation we are in right now, as soon as we're urging people to leave, not just to summer school, but to study because there's a lot of unemployment and it'll probably be even more in the fall. So we need to look for different ages. That is why we made certain changes because of those who go to school in this age group, that there will be a provisional prelude that students have the option to repay income loans if they complete their studies in their 40's, because here's the basic idea that after 35 years they don't have the chance of paying income-related payments. It's such a specific adjustment that's being suggested here. Then there is also a provision on temporary responsibilities of the responsible system, which is important, that the government has proposed changes in student loans, i.e. to eliminate the obligation to pay back the loan so that the responsibility will fail. Whether it is an individual or an individual's financial enterprise, we suggest that the same guarantees be valid because some individuals do not have an individual to vouch for themselves, but over the years they have been able to look to financial companies for some responsibility on the bank. So does the same thing. Here is also a new proposal made by the government regarding both the decrease in income-related payments, the discount on student loans, the decrease in interest of interest, etc. In the old fund. I think it all meant a lot. There's a lot of money underneath here, and I remember that there are about 103/413 billion that will have been proposed by the government. There's also been a little talk about the loans on the number of units and the number of years. It is suggested to be 420 ECTS units equivalent to seven years of study, and the additional one year of PhD. It has been suggested to borrow in Denmark, i.e. Strength and loan are from six years of age and up to 12 months in the senior year. In Sweden six years, eight years in Norway, and six years in Finland. It's just like that, so I trust it'll be okay. But if we find out after three years or more that we have to change this, I trust we will try to do so even though these changes have finally been successful and have been a very difficult birth. I agree with the person who talks about the high cost of operating is pretty high, the figure. We challenge it in our majority interest that it is based on stage movies that can change. There are a considerable number of uncertainty factors, both for the number of students, on the number of children, on how much money is paid, on loans, on how many graduates, etc. Of course, if you have 35 people at work and have 15 new laws to add, that is a growing number. The single cost is 25 million, i.e. stock costs, and then 150 million each year. There have been some explanations, and in itself you may not have much basis to appreciate this, but it is so that if you think and think that something will lead to greater efficiency and otherwise to change. But this is not unusual about the fact that during the first year, there will be a high cost. In support of his reasoning, each student in the new education fund is to receive individual treatments, should be monitored for when he completes his education, whether he is in the study and the study period, how many units are completed, etc. The loan fund believes that six more workers need this, which I think is just fine, because part of it must have been within the realm of the arrangement we have now. Then it is said that students' bonds need to be closed, increased communication and education for the loans, and that is what I pointed out earlier that I believe this is important to them. But we have also noted that it can be, perhaps not just once, but can be in the form of information on a web, and in some respects it can be in the form of a total. There is also evidence that we are working together because of social pay, a reunion plan of loans due to changes in income, family circumstances, and changes in the finals, etc., we need to hire three employees in a consulting department, two in a collection department, and then we have five more and two more branches and two employees in a computer department. I have to say, and I'm hoping that there won't necessarily be an attack on all the 15 employees at the outset. Rather, people will wait to see who's going to be in the fund even if people, of course, need to prepare. I think it's important that he start off well and not be too snooty. But I reiterate that I may not consider it fatal to add such numbers immediately during the early days of the fund and feel that there is a greater need to be added.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u145	V.E.G. President. We are likely at the end of a discussion about a new arrangement on student loans, the bill of a new education fund. In many ways, this is the turning point in 2nd. and a long term change in the subject. The bill, if we examine the objective of this article, would it not include ensuring an even greater level of equality for study? It may be said that the opportunity to study is still equal regardless of economic status and economic status, but it is better and more just to support students who make loans and fortifies. In this regard, the sea has a clearer role, although it may have always been for it to be an equation device, a social equation device, as laid down in 29 C.E. The bill. It says that the fund should be a social formula that provides study aid in the form of scholarships and student loans. This is important, and in this fine discussion, there have been a number of flying phrases over the importance of education for society. I'm not going to do any experiment here and now to improve better there, but change is truly needed. They are fine in the bill's report and the highest. The minister of education and culture was very careful about this aspect of his history and of 1st. the case that was November 1 of the past year. There are 1992 enchanting songs. There has not been so much time between the changes in the field we discuss here, and that in itself is interesting. It's a pretty good report for the report with the bill. It is remarkable when you observe the importance of education, whether it is seen in prosperity or innovation or whatever else, that for so long you have failed to respond to changes that must have made, as you all know, about people's well - beings and social behavior. We know a student's fight for better terms. A survey of European students referred to in a bill report shows that Icelandic students are generally more concerned about their status than other European students. The college students here are generally older and there is no lower percentage in the youngest age group than here, i.e. Those who continue to study directly from high school and are under 24 years of age. At that time, there is a higher percentage of seniors here. This suggests that some people in the United States get involved in studies, perhaps because of work, and because they are forced to work at learning or then that society, culture, or other factors, is thus built up. The ratio will then be lower after 30 years. It's also sobering, I think. If you think about these matters, why not examine the matter further? That may have been the case, but I have not specifically found it in evidence with the case or in the report. All of a long time, however, these changes have been called for and increased support, the support we would like to give to students, and we finally see how hard it really works out here. As I pointed out, 1st was a cover. Until November 1 and the ensuing bill is passed. The General and Education Committee has taken some time. The Commission has called for a wide range of important information and needs, and it seems to me that the discussion is well handled. Of course, we always try to be careful, but there are so many things, when such a system changes are done, which require closer examination, and I would like to say that the committee has done a great deal of good in calling out for data that matters about the bill, and especially those that are about loans and interest rates and the factors that are very complex and that are always in nature. Most of the time mentioned was why. A deputy senator in the Northeast standard, Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson, is responsible for this. He does not sit at a council these days, but I think that there is special reason to thank him for the hard work he did in the processing of this case. The baton took the baton. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, who had here the history of more part of the case. She considered the benefits of this new arrangement in her history, in her further development, and in the many changes made by the majority of the committee. I'm not going to go over it in particular here, a respectable president, but they come in my opinion very well to the comments that have been made on the subject in discussion and in the context of the Commission, many technical but many also to improve the case, and perhaps notably the potential for older students to study and enjoy the costs of these matters, and to make changes in temporary matters. It is presented to 40 years of age, the criteria for students who can choose to repay student loans with income insurance if they finish early or during that year - when they are 40 years of age, as they say. This is a great improvement and was examined particularly in the final meters on the subject. This new arrangement, a new fund, includes needed adjustments, and it is time indeed! I feel that the discussion has been a way of achieving these changes, this new fund. This is mainly the basic development that has been under discussion and is also manifested in the three minor opinions that have been discussed. However, the majority of the items go well over it and complement the management committee and fund - management obligations and point to the obligation that such contributions should be sufficient. That is then the highest. Minister to bless it at any time. It was long time to increase the learning skills in this system, develop real strength, make the potential part of the loan system, and at the same time ensure equality in the system for students. This may be the most positive change, as well as the change we read about in paragraph 15. with the bill I'm recommended to you and most of the people who have spoken here. It's a very positive change, I'm going to turn to 15. gr., but it's the strength of a child's forward, i.e. if a child has a legal home for a borrower or if a borrower has a responsibility. This is an additional example that has no precedent elsewhere. This is positive. There are some positive aspects of this matter and basic adjustments. It is also true that subsidies will be more balanced with monthly payments, likely to be more economical for students. Scholars also have a choice of reimbursement and, in general, a better approach should be made in reimbursement monthly and in the balance of income, as is the choice of a securable or inaccessible way. We've been raising a lot of money into innovation, and education is key to this, so these changes are positive to that end. This should improve study incentive and, in time, improve the needs of students. Of course, there's going to be an experience on the case, a respectable president, and I think that the time of the revision set out, three years, is appropriate, considering that we're starting with a fundamental change. All of this will lead to a better financial position after studies, with less pay and less due, more than that, and less responsibility for family members. The government took a stand before we took the bill to the 2nd. In terms of collective agreements, decrease in interest, and pay out, as well as the detriment of responsible men. I don't think there's a doubt about it, and there's a lot of reflection in this conversation, a respectable president, that with these changes, the new education fund will be the social support, the means of an equation, which is being taken into consideration, and the different circumstances of students will be further considered. This will be of all benefit and will lead to a better use of money at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u146	A respectable president. We're about to break the bottom of this discussion, this good bill, about the scholarship of students, this time. This is an important bill, such as all educational, educational, and knowledge of the nation at all levels. A review of the study support systems has been published by the government for several years, and how glad we are that we are on this platform to see that a new school loan system may soon become a reality! It has been suggested that education is power. Education and schooling always increase knowledge and wide - mindedness, strengthens and builds up the individual, and promotes communities in order to handle more and more complex tasks between countries and countries. We Icelanders have always counted our educated people in the broad sense of that term, speaking to us as a learning nation, a book nation, indicators, and cleverness. It's probably overrated on a large scale, but we're better off compared with the neighboring countries. It's also a matter of life and death. A small nation, a small community, must be armed in most areas, armed in the moral sense. Hence, it is crucial that the attitude we display toward students is encouraging and that an equal state, that all who are interested in studying are able, regardless of their economic status, rank, and status. In this brief speech, I intend to only a little less at the level of education of the Icelanders compared to other nations according to OECD education, and also only the attitude of students and the contribution of society in historical light, now at this breakthrough when we discuss a new bill on the education of students. The situation is that in Iceland there are more men without secondary education at 25◯34 years of age than in most other Western countries. The situation in Italy, Spain, and Portugal is only inferior to that of European countries. This is shown in statistics from OECD 2018. The difference between the sexes is as great as in Iceland or 9 percentage points, in favor of women. There's a couple of postboat men out there. In this regard Iceland looks like the southern continent, but this difference has been decreasing as the years go by. The men have been putting on their clothes and hard work in this regard. A respectable president. The situation in Iceland, however, is much better when a university education is considered. In the age group of 25-◯64 years, 21% of Iceland's population had completed its longitude in 2017. The mean OECD ratio was 17%. This is a better place for us than the rest of the North. These figures are surprising, since most of the film has been suggested that the rest of the North countries are more successful in this regard. These are positive signs, but we need to keep busy and especially concerned about all our subjects, groups that have, for example. special needs, those with reduced energy, disability, and immigrants and people of foreign background. In 1992, as in previous talks, current law on the Icelandic loan fund became valid, but has changed since then, every two to four years, and it is long ago time to adopt it as a whole and bring it to the outlook that our modern society needs to offer to young people whom we rely on the future into changing society. The history of public study aid in Iceland has become quite long, nearly to the years when Iceland's University was founded in 1911, the anniversary of Jón the son of Sigurðsson. During the early years, it was a low scholarship that the government gave without the formality, but since 1928 it began to be a student's loan from the University of Iceland. In 1952, the University of Iceland's student council proposed a request to the government for a financial donation to the loan fund. The request had been made with the institution of the School of Lenda Fund. Laws were set up for the establishment of the new fund, and it guaranteed a government contribution. With law No. 52/1961 was started by the Icelandic student loan, and in 1976 new loans and scholarships were still being passed. So we were walking into the new era in the dough. Evolution continued, and in 1982, new loans and scholarship laws were introduced, making two basic changes in student loans. The first involved giving a student's loan to 100% of the student's extension needs in several steps. Those were ambitious goals. The second turned to the calculation of student loans with the goal of raising the payoff rate, but it had not been the expectation of the lawyer that these loans would be fully paid. The percentage increased from 66% to 88%. The year 1992 saw a dramatic change in Icelandic students'loan fund, which included law. aimed at saying that loan time was no longer limited to a set number of years, which was 40 years old, but the loans did not fall down and should be paid off completely. Several times during previous meetings, these laws have been proposed, efforts have been made to make some important changes. Four times when the members of the United States have failed to achieve this, last at Council 146, when the member of the United States proposed a bill concerning these changes. It had first been put to the test at Council 139. The changes went on to influence the loan reimbursement, responsibilities, and failure of loans. There were significant changes made in some parts of the bill we're discussing here tonight. As an example of the changes made by the United States, the continuation of student loans at 67 years of age, the breakdown of responsibilities at 67 years of age, or the death of a responsible man, required that the responsibility not be covered by grave and death. There are many sad experiences that show that responsibility has fallen upon completely careless people and that there have been trials in many families. At the time we made these adjustments and a bill, there were about 30 loans in a collection where heirs or estates paid from student loans. Our bill then suggested that because of long - term illness, disability, or disability, the loss of the posts of a bond, in part or in all, be found. There is a lack of our opinion in the new bill on the Scholars' Education, that is a law to postpone payment and not to put it off. A respectful president, the National Association of Icelandic students, has closely followed the work being done in preparing this bill. That's fine. They've made many comments and presented suggestions that have been helpful, and I believe they've made their way into this bill. Of course, the organization considers changes in the loan system long ago timely and hopes that academic education's education fund will lead to the necessary improvement that has long been delayed, lets it serve its purpose, and that the bill is a good first step but would have wanted to see more changes and that more things had been done in a few areas, such as magazines in the direction that humans have been considering in neighboring nations. But there are a lot of important regulations in the bill that the organization agrees with and supports. A respectable president. Many are looking forward to a great improvement in this bill as it has developed in the administration of a global and educational committee. These include the strengthening laws as well as the immediate attention of students who complete their studies on schedule as well as family and child strength. Students'organizations made comments on growth, and they have been reduced, and that's fine. Surely, the bill would have looked quite different if it had been written on the basis of peers. One of the cornerstones of the Union policy is that it is a community project and a role of funding such as the learned education fund to ensure equality to study, regardless of the economy. Since the establishment of Icelandic students in 1961, he has played a key role in enabling people from less - wealthy homes to educate themselves and, in fact, to become a completely different Icelandic society. In recent years, however, the fund has failed to play this role, following the flows of time. Now it is so high the percentage of Icelandic students choose to work with a degree of study and walk in our neighboring countries. Students believe that the funds do not meet their needs, and they choose other ways to finance their studies. That's too bad. Study is challenging, and we are expected to create students with the means to provide for them to attend undistracted studies if they choose to do so. It's a full-time job. The bill does not provide enough improvement, and it does not ensure a well - founded goal for learning equality. Thus, 2 smaller items suggest adjustments in order to ensure that support is really independent of the economy. Our background man in the Conspiracy and a member of the committee at night. General Education and Education Committee, huh? paritaprevir The Guðmundur Andri Thorsson, made special publicity when he followed the committee's list of mine parts, made the lot of immigrants and refugees, and their accessations from minimal student careers while they were handling the rule of the Icelandic community and dealing with the language. Hv. A senator believes, and it is our opinion that such issues must be legalized. Mr. President. There are still opportunities to reform, and it is expected that in view of the discussion that has been conducted in the council Hall, the Committee takes back the bill, seeking to do the reliefs that will meet important and significant comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u147	A respectable president. Yes, it was time to meet students. I'm just coming up here to reiterate a little thing that's a big deal to responsible people. I find it a little strange that responsible older ones don't get the chance of losing their responsibility entirely. It would be nice to know how much old loans are in error, which actually makes it impossible to give the good people who have been responsible 30, 40 years ago to get away from them. It is also a bit scary, to say the least, that if you have not paid back a loan at 65 years of age, it will just pay off. You have a chance to apply for extensions. It's in the hands of the fund to decide. The same is true if you have been in some situation where you want to apply for a loan, then it is also in the hands of the fund to decide what responsibility they want, whether they want a responsible man, and if he is not good enough, and if he does not borrow a large family or a good network to find a good responsible man, he may even ask for a mortgage. This is special if we are going to be consistent between the old one we're talking about and the new and the opportunity and a better dresser being offered today, e.g. If a student has completed his schooling at the specified study time plus one year, he may be able to obtain a 30% loan cut in addition to some circumstances. In fact, I am most concerned with the responsibilities and old loans that seem to be supposed to be able to follow them out over the grave and death by the way the borrower has done his job. And unfortunately, a respectable president, there are always some who cannot deliver for whatever reason it may be, that is not available. Some simply experience accidents, tragedy, and simply cannot cope. At that time, even if he is one of those who live in poverty, he may find it difficult to care for the rest of his age. There's a reason for that now, I think, in the case of the Committee to consider this further. I think we did well by showing respect for the old people and promising them that we will be relieved of this responsibility, as we are trying to put more on the new loans.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u148	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Guðjón S. son of Brjánsson had a particularly pleasant talk for him, as he took the time to review the fund's history. It was very interesting and fun. After the discussion today and earlier this week, it seems that those who have been involved in it agree that education is an investment to the future and that money is always well spent. We are to be progressive in education, and we need to be careful that equality for study is guaranteed, that those who want to learn can learn and pursue education. We have also agreed that change in the current loan system is needed, so we agree on more than we disagree on, and that's fine. The discussion has been good and interesting and very objective. I would like to draw out especially a few points from the bill, so that our members of Parliament are the same at the objective of the bill and its contents. First, I'd like to say that with the bill, it's not suggested to create a new fund, it's only changing its name to reflect an improved student loan system. The elderly loan system will remain a division within the education fund until it runs its course. Seven years ago, it's expected in the forward bill. It is also important to make the discussion clear that the new system is divided. The loan part is funded by the loans of student loans. The credit should be self-sustained, but the government's study aid is primarily in the down payment of a section of student loan loans and the implementation of their children. The accompanying data shows that more than 90% of credit recipients will be better or equally successful from the new system. It is an improved ministry with students and individuals, and as many have mentioned in their talks, the situation of individuals is more taken into account in the course of study and the setting of the individual. The basic education bill has been a long time at birth, but the current U.S. Board of Education is since 1992. In recent years, two prime bar to the total set of Icelandic student loans has been submitted in the spring of 2013 on the 141th legislades and on the 145th General Assembly in the spring of 2016. During this bill, there were comments that were received from both bills and that were endeavored to meet their viewpoint. So I count a few things that are new and definitely improved for the students is suggested to pay out monthly, instead of paying out twice a year, which is a measure of interest and comfort for borrowers. A choice is insurmountable and insurmountable to loans. The level binding of loans is still available. The majority suggest that it will be up to 40 years of age, at least temporarily in the light of the Covid pandemic, that it will be temporary. We are also talking about decommissioning and culminating the responsible system. It's a very big step that has taken years to weigh and process other parts of the system to make it work just because it's all hanging. We never have dollars and money in our hands for every little change, but we're always talking about billions. So it is important that the other aspects of the bill, especially where its aim is to be sustainable, all work out. We naturally minimize the risks of a government fund as much as possible. There are also changes in the start of the return of loans, i.e. After one year, but now it's two years. This will lead to a decrease in the pay load of borrowers. These changes are in line with the systems that exist elsewhere in the North countries, where recycling begins as soon as it ends, at the latest a year later, so we are moving more towards the North American model. For a while, it has been prior to a complete reexamination of the Icelandic loan fund and to bring the legislation toward the present and the community in which we live. Risk analysis of the annual report of the loan has been performed for example. Emphasize the need for changes in its activities and existing laws. With this bill, the plan is to respond to the changes that have taken place in education, especially at a university level, and to put new laws in place with new times and changes in the needs of students. For decades, Icelandic students have fought for better terms, increased Bible students'rights, and equal opportunities for study. In recent years they have also called for improved learning loans and for increased financial support of their study by the United States of England. Studies have shown that Icelandic students have considered their status worse than students in neighboring lands. In recent years, the average loan loan loan loan fund of Icelandic students has increased steadily. The main reason is that students are longer studying and studying longer and more expensively with high schools, both within the country and abroad. At that time, the average age of borrowers has gone up. Mr. President. The bill aims to balance the support and distribution of Kingdom grants to borrow workers with a social support fund by establishing an impulse system for students to complete their studies at the specified time. The bill is a system modification of the current study aid system. This system changes can be assumed to be an improved learning course that will contribute to the better use of funds in the education system and greater efficiency in the future. These changes will include: means that the state's study aid will be more beneficial, that the position of students who need further support because of social conditions will be strengthened and more equal to borrowers. The bill then suggests that there will be a learning law that will be adopted in earlier student loan laws up to current laws in 1992. This new system will thus be more similar to the Norse Accuracy System. In addition to the changes, I'd like to mention that in the forward bill, there is an authority for a minister to the icicle, e.g. If there is a lack of resources in certain professions, and this can be done and the learning loan system can be used in order to increase the number of people attending certain classes. In terms of the lack of specialized persons in the country, it is possible to have special authority to extend to those who intend to pursue studies and education needed in certain areas. This is a big, important step. Also, the Kingdom gives strength, the strength of children, as many have noted, and this is also true of those who work with them. It is not for the parents who have their children in their home. This regard is given to parents who have their children and to those who pay support. I was going to say so much, it's such a big deal, but we're running out of time. I just wanted to thank the Committee for a good job and want to use this opportunity to thank you. A deputy, Þórarinn Ingi Pétursson of Peter, for his contribution, who spent months on this committee, was taking over the ball from him. I thank you for a very careful discussion and suggest, Mr. President that the case will be referred to. The General and Education Committee for further discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u149	A respectable president. It's time to come tonight on this long day here at the council. I'm going to bring the Committee's opinion of a bill to legalize the law of a multi property building, No. 26/1994, with subsequent changes, for electrical loading devices, from the top of the welfare committee. The committee has discussed the situation and has been contacted by Gunnhildur Gunnarsdóttir and Margrét Sigurðardóttir from the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Árni Davíðsson, Stefán Björn Sverrisson and Jóhann G. Ólafsson of Iceland's Electricity Association, Kristján Sigurbergsson of the Association of the Electricate and Bergur Þorri the Benjamínsson, from the Autosavement of Mobility. Then came the commission from the Árni Davíðsson Davidson, Iceland's Electricity, Samflu, SART ▪ electronic contractors, and the Autosave of aggressive national relationship between motorists. The bill suggests that loading equipment will be set up by means of electrical equipment in the single - property houses of electric cars for how a owner wishes for loading equipment to be installed at the parking lot on the property house should be applied. The committee received reviews from five sources most of whom were positive. Most observers agree with the bill's objective and believe that it is important to succeed. The bill suggests that the cost of loading cars will be specialised to its owner in the case of a special property. In contrast, it is assumed that this is the common cost of all owners authorised for use by the relevant source. The committee was moved to believe that using the bill, it was too much for owners of electric vehicles to have the right to oblige other owners of the multisemination building and operating supplies for their vehicles, and it would be reasonable for users to move cars to special companies, such as those in some neighboring countries, so that users were under vehicle control rather than others. At that time the commission was pointed out that many truckers have already set up their own subway station and were involved in the cost of it. So it would be unfair for them to have to pay for a common loading station, in effect paying double the cost of such a stop. The majority indicates that according to 9 mg. Yoo-hoo, y-yo, y-yo, y-yo. The bill will be permitted by a homemate to demand a fee for the use of a set that has been paid in common by a housemate, not by those already set up by electric car owners. Additionally, the bill is designed to ensure that those who do not have an interest in them do not need to carry the cost of loading equipment. Thus, it is stated that it must be viewed as reasonable and reasonable that all who have access to the respective parking lot will be involved in the related costs, and they and their people will be permitted to take advantage of the future facilities. In addition, a report shows that there is no room for specific parts of the apartment, neither unique nor collective, but not a need to carry the costs of loading equipment, but is only considered to be a common cost to those with the parking lot, parking lots in partnerships that are unique to the owner's property, or a warrant for use by a joint and exclusive parking lot on the property of a multi owned home. In addition, it is important to look to the social reconciliation that has created to use the EU's electricity for environmental protection and to right the more part of it, that the bill is involved in further promoting these developments. Further electricity use can create a clean, better community for everyone and thus an important step forward. The Committee gave the view that the bill did not guarantee the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Distinguished People on September 23, 2016, with General Decisions. In the 9th. The contract stipulates the obligation of Member States to take appropriate measures for access and to eliminate obstacles to allow disabled people to live independent lives and to have a full share in human life in all areas. These include: On transport, access to information technology, including information and communication technology and the network, and the other facilities and services available to the public, both in urban areas and rural areas. For the terms of the agreement to be met, it should be noted that, where a loading device would be placed, it must also be set up in positions designed for disabled persons. Then the commission was made aware that when loading supplies and relief equipment were set up by a local partner, such equipment would not have been put in the hold for disabled persons and their availability would not be guaranteed. The majority of these points out that disabled people living in houses have the same rights as others to request relief stations. In addition, homemates may decide to set a loading post for disabled persons or even on the edge of such facilities and generally so that more could be used by a station. It is also important to note that the availability of the available loading device does not inhibit access to the equipment, wheelchairs find that although it is not available for disabled persons, it can be used by those who are disabled. In addition, the majority of the reasons for the importance of access to everyone and for the government to consider that bioavailability issues in decision-making are the location and setting of loading stations or other factors. The majority suggest a number of technical adjustments to correct and ensure proper references to rules obtained by the bill a new article number. The majority suggest that the bill be approved by the change included in the Committee. But a respectable president, I'm not going to read the adjustment proposal, it's technically that it would not be understood by anyone. Under the heading "Helga Helgadóttir Helgaadóttir, Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson, Halla Signý Kristjánsdóttir, Halldorra Mogensen, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir's daughter, and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u150	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this fine story on a very good, very good subject. What I would like to ask is: Is this access guaranteed? Or is it, as usual, when we are dealing with and trying to drive against disabled people's rights, that there is some good will, and a beautiful speech, but perhaps nothing about real projects? As in this case, probably, which is pure indistinguishable. I have strong feelings that there is nothing to guarantee access to those disabled people, so it is not beyond doubt that they can enjoy the same rights as others when it comes to them, and more often than not, as we see in the community, that when the disabled come and plan to connect themselves to the stations, these few people, they usually get stuck up or something so that they sit there. I really hope that I'm just completely involved with the bullshit, Mr. Honorable President, but I'm afraid that's not the case this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u151	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I just worry about what. A senator of what is said in the counter, that it is not the thought of ensuring full access to the disabled in general public and international services. This was thoroughly presented to the committee. We discussed these matters with the Chairman of Survival, Bergur Benjamínsson's son. Our understanding of the Committee is complete, that this access should be ensured. But we have seen this through our work on the committee, and through the bills now being carried out at other fronts, that unfortunately, access to the disabled is not always well - thought enough, even if it is legal. Of course, there is a major failure in many areas of society, in rural society, in individuals, and in businesses, to ensure that access to disabled persons is ensured. We also see this in the new structures that are being taken out and delivered. The bioavailability of the disabled is not guaranteed by order of building. That's why I'm worried about what. paritaprevir Sæland Howil. Of course, it is our role and understanding, and it wants that message from us to go all the way and this access will be added as we wish and want it to be assured.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u152	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the body heart for the answer. I hear it, and I know that he has his heart in the right place in this regard, and he's here with love, and he wants to follow through on this with a good mind. But I want to be happy. A senator by saying that this is something that we can decide for the sale of the Generals. It's something that doesn't have to be within a room if we want it to be secure. We also have our resources to clean up and then make adjustments so that they will be followed, so that right now, during this period of progress, when we're trying to switch to eco-friendly green energy and change property houses, to try to meet the progressive progress in society on which we're living, we could go ahead with a good example. What happens to other people who are in the community who turn to disabled people, then at least we can. starting there, trying to follow through with it properly. This is why my good coven, Guðmundur Ingi Kristinsson, is signing this otherwise excellent opinion in advance, but in the rest, it is a very good bill. But as I say, it's ours here to work with it. Now it comes back to the committee, and we can just follow this through even more. I want to believe it, and I don't doubt for a minute that every senator in this room will agree that this time to ensure these human rights of disabled people, that they can get green energy without help in their wheelchair like everyone else. That's how we're supposed to have it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u153	A respectable president. Yes, thank you. paritaprevir Inga Sæland for these words, we're exactly in the same place in this. I'd also like to assume that I had a good relationship with Bergur Benjamínsson when discussing the matter on the committee, and as we were leaving the committee, I contacted him. I think the people we're working for think here are pretty sure that the thought that has been made possible in our talks. I agree with what has been said here, that it is absolutely certain that the whole U.S. Senate wants 100% of its laws, that the access code and access language of the disabled will be exemplary, and that it will be a pleasure to all of us to have shared in doing things that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u154	A respectable president. Thank you. Ásmundur Friðriksson for an excellent introduction to the Committee for Health Services in this case. Of course, it is only natural to see the light of this kind in our time when we are moving into the changing energy environment and to increase the use of new energy, which is electricity. Not everyone who lives in a special property, and more and more, we will likely live in a place of property. I think that the 1994 multi property law clearly covers this situation, that it is a common effort to set up a situation like this, since it is not the appropriate parking lot, one or more, where the person's property is used for one or a few. Of course, this does not apply just to disabled persons, general property houses, as well as housing for the elderly. I'd like to ask you what. One is to set up this situation, the other to deal with these stations and use them. Is it, then, expected to become a share too, or is payment expected to come from the common property fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u155	A respectable president. Thank you for such reflections. He asked about the business at this loading station. It is assumed that individuals can set up their own loading stations. But the pantry can make a mutual decision to set up such a loading point for the share, where everyone is participating, whether inside or outside, and I think it's just very important. It is also taken into account that these loaders are available to all. It also showed that they are on the threshold of even the disabled and the rapist. I think that the idea that everyone can enjoy and carry similar costs will be just fine in this, and that's what I do and the leader is very interested in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u156	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator and a pilot, Ásmundur Friðriksson, for the answer. The Motion Building Act dates back to 1994. I think 6th and 8th. You're taking into account what you're dealing with, what you don't have, and I think it's absolutely certain that parking lot does. But I wondered if this will meet some suspicion among the people, since we know many examples of people living in a condo, perhaps in a six, seven - story house, and the roof is about to leak, that those who live on the lower hills feel utterly unlikely that they are participating in a leak roof or renting the law in a partnership they do not see. It's like this. But I would like to ask. Because I have not studied the reviews or visitors to the Committee: Did the reviews indicate that people would resist this, that they were negative about interpreting it in this way, that it was a partnership? Is there anything special going on? Is it possible to prevent the disease of a person living in a house of property from setting up his own station? Does he need to seek approval from a house manager for such a project, which I would rather assume would require?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u157	A respectable president. It has been a while since our agreement with the committee, and the situation has been salty in the social situation. However, it was noted that this work was a common job in a housemate and that individuals should be able to make special decisions about not being involved, so they came into view. However, the reviews of most people took up the goal of the bill and felt that it was important to do so. That's what I can say about this. Of course, it is known, especially in our neighboring countries, that parking lots, even in apartment buildings, are in special societies within them, so there are, in fact, some ways that you can do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-05-28-109.u158	V.E.G. President. I come most of the time here to consider one point and, if not yet, wish to discuss the matter with a committee. The method that Reykjavíkurburg uses, including is to create a fund, a fund, where strength can be applied to set up such heavy equipment. I think it would be good to take a good discussion at that time. Then I began to look at the committee and the bill earlier. The mind behind it, of course, is good, i.e. to explain the rules when it comes to the problem we are today that in many old houses, loading stations and such things are not expected and are probably in very few apartment buildings except those who are actually building. I don't think that it is possible to oblige all residents or apartment owners to participate in such costs. I wondered if we have begun to manipulate a considerable amount of people's rights to make arrangements for their money and possessions at the time. I'm not going to give an example, but I'm wondering if there are other things that could arise, technology, or other situations where an apartment, say just someone on a motorcycle, need special parking space, or a situation in the house for such a vehicle, that the electric cars would be viewed as being obliged to participate, and then why not do the same? I don't think it's the right way to go now. It could have been going that way, and I just want to roll it up without having thought it really deep, I take it out, I take it to the owners of a car with enough parking lot, you know, and I just want to be dependent on being a parking lot attached to each apartment, just getting assigned a particular parking lot, and then having these equipment installed by myself. I feel rather manipulated by people in apartment buildings to do this. But I have an understanding of the need, that the rules need to be explained, and these things need to be settled. But it's something like government to tell people to do this. I would like the matter to go to a committee between 2 and 3rd.
