ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u1	It is a pleasure to know that today the contract with The G contractor was signed on the third stage of the building of a five - story office building at the General Assembly. Under the contract, the president of the Generals and Ragna Árnadóttir of the Office on behalf of the General Assembly and on behalf of the contractors of Þorvaldur Gissurarson, director of Your contractors. The building itself, i.e. The construction of the house, the beginning of a short period, and the end is estimated to be in the first half of 223 C.E. There is reason to congratulate all of them on the day, and especially the general and staff of the Generals who come to enjoy the greatly improved facilities the house will carry with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u2	A respectable president. In recent years or, rather, decades, the capital area has been left behind in the construction of transport workers. Over a ten - year period, only 17% of Vega's newest budget went to the capital area, where about 70% of the population live. The good news is that during this terms, we have made changes in this trend by agreeing with the local capital area that over the next 15 years, one of the most extensive transport projects in history will be attacked, which will speed up the improvement in this area. These are funding for not only the founding business but also the jumps, bicycling steps, and the city line, an enormously important matter that we are to celebrate. And what may be said of the Central Party or of the Moggins'Blockstones, there is a realistic solution that has begun. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Farmers have to live up to their needs, but more is needed. You see, we need both a city line and a waterway. One of the most expensive projects to be considered in the road system in Iceland is the trajectory. Despite a large increase in new donations over the past few years, it is clear that if the waterway should be financed in this way, either making a significant increase in public donations beyond what we have already done or greatly decreasing in other areas would be necessary. Neither of these routes is practical nor desirable. Therefore, I intend to propose a synonym, along with more members of the council, at the highest level. A secretary of transportation will be assigned to offer out design, financing, construction and construction of the Dizziness Way on his own. This would give private people an opportunity to deal with what the government has been discussing for 50 years. Let's see if the private enterprise is responsible for carrying out a project from A to O without a government funding but instead is authorized to pay dues.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u3	V.E.G. President. Birds are beautiful and fun, and watching them in nature is fun. However, increasing food supply causes growth in strains. During the past few years, there has been a tremendous increase in goose size and size. The birds know what they're doing. They attend the fine grass and grain table, which is offered to farmers, but the table is not for their benefit. In certain areas, wool and goose have just swallowed up the whole harvest. They are completely free of any concern about control, and they naturally do not obey human rules. V.E.G. President. The wealth of farmers is a major source of anxiety and excitement. Farmers have tried to protect themselves from the propaganda of birds by various means, both visual and audio. However, the birds are quick to get used to their food supply, and they quickly return to their fields and gardens. The defenses are merely temporarily driving birds out of certain areas, but they often turn to the next farmer. Such a move to the problem is not a reasonable solution, so it is necessary to respond. Hence, the one standing here and others have proposed a judicial decree. It suggests that the Environment and Resource Minister will recommend temporary and conditional fishing on an aluminium and goose outside the standard fishing season. If you do not respond to a prayer's pleas for protection on farms, you may even expect to grow in certain areas. The concept of food land in Iceland has no bearing on it. This is not a suggestion to allow fishing throughout the country every day. Rather, it is limited to the proposal for disaster fishing in a limited period of time when heavy farms are demonstrated. This is an exception to fishing in areas where there is a need for action on the grounds of land and land management. At the same time, there will also be a programme to ensure protection of the strains. Newness and protection need always be balanced.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u4	Mr. President. A third of gay young people experience insecurity at their school in the Icelandic school system. It shows the results of the '78 Syndicate investigation. This is unacceptable. This is unacceptable to these youths, and this is unacceptable to our whole community. There are gay young people in all schools and they are all kinds, just like other youths. However, they are expected to fall out in common with what constitutes the norm or the criteria for sexual orientation, sexual expression, sexual symptoms, and/or sexual awareness. But as for where they are heading in life, what they want out of their study, what they want to do at the end of school, they are as much as any other young person as they have the right to the same opportunities, the same circumstances for study, and the same potential for security at school. It must be a community project for all of us to make sure that it will. It is clear that the school staff plays a key role when it comes to ensuring a safe study environment for all students. Among the things presented in this survey, it is clear that queer youths are asking for the study and instruction that promote the exhibit of queer people and gay people who encourage their own performances. To that end, education is needed for teachers, and this requires a review of the study material. It is not enough for teachers interested in our genders and diversity, learning and understanding how to deal with the same variability in their students. Math teachers need to know how to do this, sports teachers need to know how to do it, geologists need to know how to do it. All teachers need to know this for all students and for society.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u5	A respectable president. Colorless green ideas sleep awesome. Something like this reminds me that when I was learning about the nature of languages in my youth, it was a sign of grammatical time, which, on the other hand, was meaningfully unacceptable. I thought of this phrase this morning when I heard a fine interview at Channel 1 of The Kingdom News on Þórður Magnússon, the director of Eyris, and a well - experienced investor, stressing that it is a good idea to invest in green industry, green solutions, green innovation. The color of the green was everywhere in that interview, and it worked out very well. Those were green ideas. The grass is green, but the coal is black. The metal is green, but the factory smoke is gray. Earth, that blue globe, gives us gifts in all possible colors, but oil, it's black. Around the world, there is a wake - up, even for the principal role model of Icelandic conservatives, English conservatives. They have even presented a progressive program to eliminate fuel and diesel trucks. The time of plundering and the black industry is over, yet it is still that colourless green ideas still sleep awesomely. We need to wake them up and fill them with color. In the United States, we've produced some developed and practical ideas about this, and that's part of our responsible route. We offer a synopsis proposal for a green-mortem revolution, which includes: is expected to be a green investment fund with 5 billion share money. Colorful green ideas are on a great night.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u6	A respectable president. Yesterday, the highest bid went on. Education and cultural minister's proposal for the General Education Conference for the 2020-2030 season. That's a great step. The course is ambitious, and its guidance is perseverance, courage, knowledge, and happiness. I think it is extremely important to get a detailed and targeted coverage at the General but also that it will be taken care of quickly and effectively so that it will be successful as soon as possible. We need clear education policy at any given time. The education system, from high school to college, all the roads and paths of the ongoing education, needs a common goal, and all need to know where to go. The result is so much better when everyone calms in the same direction. I'm especially glad that the text of academicism is short and pointed. Button's text is a sign of a well - thoughted and clear policy. It is also a good change for students to get pointed lyrics to work on a language that everyone leaves behind. You see, working under education is a major cooperation between the education system and the community, so the policy needs to be accessible to and understandable to all. It is particularly important that induction is part of the policy. Time and work are expected for policy induction. It is estimated that the induction of education will be divided into three periods of time and at the beginning of each season the induction programme will be implemented, along with action and success measures. I'd also like to use this opportunity to draw attention to the connection between education policy and working on reforming the affairs of children involved in social and child - care ministers. Emphasis on academic early support as part of equal opportunities for all and emphasis on the responsibility and coordination of services in order to ensure quality is exactly consistent and directly linked to work on child - rearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u7	A respectable president. In November about 800 homes have applied for food distribution. These are some 2,000 people who receive food distribution from Iceland's Family Help, or nearly 800 families. There, as with other helper groups, there is a great need for assistance and growth. Those of you who are in the government, independence, advanceers, and left greens, are you not already in the right time to give your conscience a hug, to do something about these matters? Now, those of you who are in the government, take your head out of the Platform chain, and make sure everyone enjoys their Christmas bonus this year. A chain-acting impairment of Christmas bonuses is ridiculous. They're cutting down the chain-acting Christmas bonus, which is an ignominious number of about 30,000 bucks. by tax. But not everyone will enjoy it. No, it's used, pension funds, all to destroy this disgrace. Then, as I have pointed out, these hunger lice are added to a chain reaction, and this is the way the petition is fully restored. Where's Morality? Where's the balance? We senators get four ways more from taxes and no impairments. This group is not getting any benefits from Covid. This is the group that sits behind, and also with a weak Christmas bonus, isn't it time that you who have been in power see it, from this Christmas season, that the Christmas bonus will be tax- and deficient?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u8	A respectable president. The debate over groups of infection at Landakot should be directed at efforts in improved gerontology, services to the elderly and harrowing, and in solving solutions to the so - called efflux problems of the Land Hospital. It is important that we learn from what went wrong at Landakoti, but let us give in to the search for guilt, which is a general rule. Healthcare professionals working day and night, weeks and months to ensure the best safety of all of us is sure that there will be no means to react as soon as possible during the so-called flow crisis of the Land Hospital. A respectable president. The consequences of the disease in a group for patients, caregivers and health care professionals are disastrous. I am moved by pity for the many who are in pain. It is very important to solve the immediate crisis of the Land Hospital and to examine all available solutions now available. Video sites are not a future solution for temporary activities. Experts and experienced health care professionals have identified solutions that can be handled with extraordinary shame. There is no time to lose. When a nursing home or a health care facility is trusted and can respond with solutions that can solve long-term and short-term emergency problems, they need to respond. We must take action with courage and strength, making decisions on the best options for the patients and the whole system, that the best solution is chosen. The safety of the patient and personnel will depend on the rapid onset of action. The knowledge and experience of well - educated health professionals experienced in nursing homes and who have access to housing, business, staff, equipment, and equipment that meet the requirements for such activities should be applied immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u9	Mr. President. Covid-Fatigue seems to be all-involved in the community. The virus still lives a happy life, and now, as the number of infections decline, we have learned from bitter experience not to rejoice too early. We've tried to live as normal as we can, but then we have to back into the situation we're in right now. The Covid-Fatigue appears in public questions, but also at the discretion of the representatives who are not able to open or close borders, allow the virus to run its course, close up schools, or open them, and, above all, to prevent transmission to vulnerable groups. Grief strikes the victims of those who have died because of the virus, where questions naturally arise. I offer sincere sympathy to all of us. In recent months, the health system and its workers have been under nearly physical stress. Divisions have been turned upside down. The emergency department had to be converted to Department of Covid for the night. Visitors had to be closed and telepathic on a larger scale. People have had to cut their personal freedom from work and face a direct risk at the workplace to care for Covid-infected people. The slit in your hands is torn away from the use of hand stylists and your face is covered by facial masks and costumes for hours during the hours of work. This, above all, is not physical laws of nature for patients and health care professionals at work. The virus itself is destructive and is by nature such as a natural disaster, but the facilities and facilities for caring are a political decision. That is where the responsibility lies, with governments that make a decision for our lack of financial resources in our health care systems.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u10	A respectable president. It is a joy to know that we are receiving reports of vaccines, two important reports of large companies, which are most welcome by our most skilled experts, which will very likely become functional in the next year. So we can see that this viral time is temporary, such as we've been saying things about the resurgence. So we have stressed that at this time we take big steps as soon as possible and try to punch a real armoring city around the very companies that need to be alive, who need to be participants and are essential to us in the fight we will need and when spring comes. We have stressed the worthiness and have heard from a greater degree that a firm, a small firm, medium-sized company, says that the government's actions, many of which are very important, such as the part-change process, do not help as it should. And there's always the same party that falls between a ship and a dock. Each press conference after another has been said to be setting billions of people there and billions there. But then it turns out that the government's actions are much smaller than those announced. The most extensive feature is the successful part - way improvement, followed by unemployment. What I'm afraid of is that everything that's been declared is not going to do that job and the company or the party we need to keep alive, have full effect when we get into the swing. That is why I stress again and again that the government takes a big step right away, destroys this uncertainty, and leads people, especially dictators and small companies, much more than has been done.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u11	President. Positive news about the Council doesn't always find its way through the press. A positive report is being made today of the Council. As noted in the President's opening statement at the beginning of this meeting, this morning a contract was signed that it would begin to set up the General Office, which has been in preparation for a while. During this preparatory period, I know that it will continue to carry on, to carry on an initial budget, and to make the house well made, but in the best possible way. This building will naturally alter the activities of the General Assembly, especially for the members of the Parliament, the Committee, for those in charge of the General Assembly, i.e. they are meeting with members of the Parliament, etc., as well as with members of the Parliament and members of the Parliament having improved office positions. But the most important and positive thing is that this project, when it is used, will save 200 million people. K. each year, which has been paid rent costs for the last few years to the facilities now in this new house and the activities of the General Assembly. I'll join the Senate's annual president on behalf of those who will work in this house in 30 months and more. I think this new house is going to be very much for the Generals and especially for those who have to work here every day.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u12	President. The national vessel is stopped. The majority of the crew are at different angles, heading in different directions. Thus, the sails stop in the middle of the sea. The conclusion is, of course, that we all have too many things. The situation in the administration home has increased recently because of the decision to allow the CDC to operate. He's got one in charge, huh? paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson's son, took a very deep place in the years, saying that his own government is using sovereignty. Last night's news, the highest. Healthcare Ministers that they are visible at the end of the tunnel and called for increased expansion when vaccines are being sparked. It acknowledged the highest point. Minister, actually, one thing. For the first time, she acknowledged that the current position on the meeting limit and the border limit is actually going to be status quot until the nation is vaccinated. The situation is that many have lost their livelihood, and many are waiting between hope and fear. Covid will leave the ground exposed. It is therefore clear that even if the end of the Covid tunnel gets closer, there is no particularly bright light at the end of it for very many. This could be in mind by the government. Now it would be wise for the board to agree on policy and approach, get the sails on a curve, and spend the energy helping those at risk of falling off. President. I suggest that the majority find their way of arguing, divulge it, and set out detailed scenarios based on the overall context of the community they are temporarily working for, rather than half-moving the entire nation, as the situation is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u13	Mr. President. I'm only going to discuss domestic vegetable production. The occasion is the year report of the Food Agency by 2019, where the Agency reported a review of defenses in imported vegetables and fruits. There were many striking findings. There were remnants of a variety of preventive agents, which could then be insecticides or weeds, antifungals, or other controls in up to 5% of the cases during the study of fruits, and then in 10% samples of spininate from the United States. What were these fruits, or vegetables? These were e.g. spinat, kiwi, oranges. Clementine was a big surprise. In fact, none of these substances were found in organic vegetables from Europe, and it was also found that no such substances were found in domestic vegetables. Of course, the most important explanation is the purity of Icelandic water. In this regard, it is necessary to protect consumers. One aspect of it, of course, is that it means that such products as vegetables are clearly marked, appeared there, and could be seen easily. In this situation, plant producers in this country and other national producers in that area have taken on the challenge of government and our efforts to increase production of these products and large increases in production. Recent reports of enough electricity in the country also consider that the state needs to take over and lower electrical prices to these manufacturers, so that they can spit in and produce these wholesome products, as it is so clear that they are in the Food Institute report.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u14	Mr. President. Only in this discussion would I want to introduce myself. paritaprevir The Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir mentioned earlier, which has to do with the important position of monotonous and small enterprises in the condition we live in today's world. I don't think it's fair to say that the government's actions did not compare with those of the larger parties. It has been tried for measures that have already been designed to tailor the conditions and arrangements so that smaller companies can be used in the same way as larger. But perhaps there is something lacking in the lack of information on the potential for such issues has been clearly presented to the relevant organisations. It seems that the position of the individual or a small family business to obtain information, to seek advice on options available, may not be the same as in the larger companies who have experts on their network that can join these projects. I am convinced that the information flows to these sources can be significantly improved with the objective that they can apply the rights they have according to the measures they have already taken. The other is so different that this is also a point to consider with regard to measures that are in preparation or are in progress. I can say that this view has been expressed clearly with the government or with the officials that it is a point that needs to be kept in mind, for it is true. þm. The Þorgerður of Katrín, the daughter of Gunnar, said that it is extremely important that these members be protected from the blow in the same way that the bigger ones are. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u15	Mr. President. Reports of how the treatment of those staying in Eagle's Residents around 1970 and earlier have caused anxiety in the community. Prominent descriptions have been made that require that the situation be resolved and, in fact, the handling of other comparable households. The information regarding Eagleholt has been revealed and the good initiative taken by Steinunn Finnbogadóttir, the late, the councilman at that time. The matter was discussed at a meeting of the welfare committee this morning, and there I made the following suggestion: So it's directed to the highest level. Prime Minister to request an investigation of the management, services and treatment of adult people with disability, developmental maladies, and mental disorders who lived or stayed in institutions and treatments in Iceland. Reports on how to handle Eagleholt and the business of the Development Fund and the Committee's Psychiatry have raised many questions. The committee feels that it is important that the matter is immediately under way that a complete consideration can be made. The Commission feels that it is best to have the perspective needed on matters that are so important and that they already have experience and knowledge of similar matters. The proposal's payment was postponed to the next meeting, and the committee could certainly find some other landing or joint decision, and if that were wishful. The Ministry of Presidency was in charge of reports and observations in the British Home, Kopavogus, hearing schools, and other institutions of 2007-2016, and has followed up on them. Reykjavíkurburg has already begun to have an opinion of the case and found that it will need the cooperation of the city and the Ministry of the Presidency in the case if necessary. The case has to do with at least It is important, in my opinion, that the Ministry of Presidency should handle the case. I think it is very important that the case should be started quickly so that uncertainty is resolved and an opinion of the case is not begun and it does not land in political holes. The project is large, and it is not unlikely that when its scope becomes clear, financial contributions and even permission to examine the evidence need to be sought. [[The president calls.]] I trust that when the council arrives, it will clear the streets of such cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u16	A respectable president. Today, I would like to focus on the affairs of children and young people at the Covid time. It is important to note how they work in different, unexpected situations and to look for ways to reduce the effects and consequences of reduced freedom and even isolation. Their discomfort and loneliness grow, says professional workers who work with children and adolescents. In this area, schools do good work under difficult circumstances while organized hobbies and sports work has been banned or damaged. When this is the case, children and adolescents who are involved in sports activities are well - off, their well - being and their well - being, their upbuilding sports work, their good prevention and vital social training are important. Sports and exercise have much to say about health and even more during these times. One part of what is seldom introduced is access to gymnasiums all over the country, but they are always very productive. At the same time, the facilities for house - to - house sports vary greatly. In the southwest corner, local communities have created several multiuse houses and in a few of their outer places, often called soccer houses, but, of course, much more than just kick sports. It is a matter of interest to urban areas and smaller rural areas to have access to such buildings. In addition to sports and hobbies for children and young people, it is often one of the factors that matter when families make a decision about living. To this end, governments need to consider the goals of the country's equal dwelling conditions, to support rural society in establishing a good national level of sports for physical and mental health benefits for all age groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u17	Mr. President. Governments have set specific goals, including adding to agriculture and growing, as well as other such goals in the country. Thank you very much. Minister for the opportunity to discuss this important subject. Governments have developed progressive food policies based on reducing ecosystems and increasing food security and using the resources of the country - water and air and energy and soil - as well as important regional policy. At the same time, food demand has increased rapidly as a result of population growth and climate change. This, of course, results from both national and international needs, the basic idea of improving much in Iceland and a major source of food for export. It is a kind of new type of great, ambitious, realistic step taken in several stages. Here, there are a wide variety of ways to develop. In other words, traditional breeding is a climatic in even large buildings, such as fish farms, saunas, and the latest, algae. The key to this is at least Two kinds. It's the aquifers, that has a lot of history and we have -- I don't want to say enough but at least a lot of it. I'm talking about big breeding, like tomatoes and stuff like that for exporting. I mean, it's like Vata's doing it like the Blue loon, i.e. to grow fats suitable for food, food, food, and production on a variety of aspects. I mean fish farms, both domestic and foreign species, in units of 1,000 tons per year, or up to 5,000 tons per year, as well as IT, which are of utmost importance. That is certainly true of the earth's temperature. I'm going to give this production to sea and air. It depends on these points and is now being added ports, such as the Coventry and beyond, which would be very suitable for this purpose. Then such production is dependent on both energy security, i.e. that the distribution system is in good condition, transport and distribution system, energy supply is always at the rhythm of the need, and most important, that energy prices are moderate. But the key, and that's the second one I'd like to mention, is education and innovation. Today, the same government has produced ambitious innovationism. It is important to remind you that this government has worked hard to establish a basic policy that has been missing in Iceland for decades. New creationism is progressive and has made certain funds, the Food Fund so-called, the Climate Fund I have to mention, and technology fund that is also relevant to the story. So new funds have infiltrated innovation in this area. But the main focus of all of this is the education itself. There has to be a system in Iceland that ensures that general agriculture education and special agriculture education are available, which is certainly, but also differences, such as warming. Now that this has been the case, further education in high school has been made, or we can rather refer to it as professional education. It is very important that this continues, but also that additional education is possible. I have three questions for the highest. Minister. I ask: How can you prepare to contribute greatly to these activities through the cooperation of your country, rural society, farmers, and businesses over the next few years? Can production of food for export, in the way I have described, become part of the foreign food market application in the coming years? How can new articles, such as algae, and the use of algae on the shores of the country be enhanced?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u18	Mr. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for calling attention to the affairs of innovation in climatic development and production of fresh food for exporting with this discussion here. I take to heart that we have a very good chance in the production of food in this country, especially if we are guided by the intelligence, innovation and sustainable use of resources. Increased food production using green energy is one of the big instruments facing us in Iceland. With renewable energy, clean water, and a professional environment, we are in a good position and in excess of other countries to cultivate and produce global high quality food. Thus, we not only reduce the need to import food but also open opportunities for exporting high - quality goods to foreign markets. The role of the government is here to create conditions and channels in order to build up and meet the ideas and energy that are certainly in pioneers throughout the country. Sustainable consumption of energy resources, the diversity of resource currents and lower energy waste are part of the key objectives and the light of energy policy for Iceland to 2050, which we did not present long ago. We're working on a follow-up plan, which will include: emphasise the support of multi-use resource feeds from activations, e.g. with the development of green industrial parks around geological workers. Enterprises have been performing in the media, such as Orchidea, in the South, and Eimur in the northeastern country. Orchidau's project is a new cooperation project on innovation in the southern part of the European Parliament, the Sunnian Company Association, the National Focal University of Iceland, and the Marine and Agriculture Ministers. The project is about the building of energy-related instruments for food production and biotechnology, sustainable resource use and the preparation of regions to receive energy-related innovation. Of course, it's this partnership, like why. A senator, who is so vitally important, came in and arranged to make a decision to get to a particular location. One of the main objectives of cooperation is to increase food production in the country and make the production environmentalisation using green energy, thus increasing the opportunities for Icelandic food producers to be competitive in the international market. Then there is an example of Hellishi, where farmers are growing under the company of Algaennevation Iceland. This involves a cooperation project on the Elfussian geographary of Energy, where the company uses electricity, hot water and cold, and carbon dioxide directly from the geothermal activation of Hellishi. Then it is the fish farm prides Sea Farm, next to the Rhine seeding and using the demolition water from the fire of tropical fish for export. There are great opportunities in climatic development and the use of fossils for food production. There have been significant steps in building high-tech greenhouses here. An example of such a greenhouse can be found in the company Vader, which breeds food on many hills with aled-light, like a dog. A senator entered, the use of land space, energy, and water is thus laid down. It is remarkable to come in and see how technology can be used in the way it is done. Reinforcing many hills reduces the need for land again to increase the possibility of location near markets. In addition, we have a Technologies Fund, which has strengthened new projects in the field of food production and greenhouse technology, and there's an example of the development ofled descriptions in greenhouses. Like what? A senator's involvement in the Food Fund is of great importance to him, and his organization and contributions, which have been increased from previous to previous issues. His role is clear and consistent with that. A senator is here asking about and stressing the subject; strengthening the development and innovation of agricultural and marine food products; this is the same focus. It is also permitted to support the product development and market application in the foreign markets that are relevant to us and that we need to improve further. Of course, we have large amounts of donations in the Technical Development Fund, which are expected to be funded in the bill for next year's budget. Also important is the general environment in which companies are reimbursed because of research and development, where we have also increased. Of course, considering the potential for food exporting, it is clear that economic transport to and from the country is a major matter of competitiveness. The cost of transport has been higher than that of major rivals, but we may be able to improve our position there in the future by more efficient transport both at sea and in the air, so that there are opportunities if we have the means to maintain well - maintained. The groundwork is the key issues of importance, of my known, efficient guidelines, clear policy measures as well. A senator came in. We've made a significant improvement. These policies all speak together. [[The president calls.]] We've decided that we're going there. It's just a matter of how fast we can do it and what action we can take. Then there is the competitive environment, community attitudes, employment attitudes, and decisions that I think we have already taken. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u19	Mr. President. I welcome this discussion, especially. So I think that our greatest opportunity now as a nation, both soon and long, is to take advantage of the possibilities we have in earth's heat and water to increase food production here, primarily to feed ourselves, but also to export, because we will be in the next list of very poor currency to build the country by Covid. I believe this is the fastest way to do it, i.e. To arrive on a vast increase in greenhouse development and a vastly increasing landfire. It is good to raise governments in such a way that they do so. A circuit overseer will do this because in himself governments can put forth great effort to get this work done. First, the price of electricity for greenhouse breeding is the same as it was for another major industry. It is a very simple decision, and it is quickly made. Second, the government can contribute to the development of any members now planning a large land supply, such as for example. A village crew could attack it, as agreed that a prospective industrial plant on Smokeynes will become a salmon farm. It's also just a decision-making thing. But first and foremost, the government needs to work on watchers who issue these projects, and for this development it is not to waste their time in the pursuit of dictators, e.g. to grow several pink in a pond, but rather to shorten the time of this great deed, e.g. By fire, they need to be started as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u20	Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank you for putting this important subject on the program. This is a matter that we in the United States have been very active in promoting here in the Hall of Congress, and we rejoice at whatever opportunity we have to discuss it. We need to look at the system systemic, and we need more cooperation between the knowledge sector and the manufacturer. We have an outstanding example of such cooperation in the fishing industry. We have everything needed to produce more intensive crops, enough energy, enough heat, and we have knowledge. We could grow a lot more than we do today, and we could grow a much more varied product. By cutting down production and increasing the amount of production, we could, in large measure, support our own need and even, if we look forward to the future, produce goods for exporting. But there are other factors that we need to consider in this context, e.g. To create a meaning for products produced in Iceland that connect Icelandic foods to quality and sustainableity. In this way we would make it easier for Icelandic consumers to find out what food at commercial stores is available and to market Icelandic food abroad. We also need to look at the electrical cost, i.e. electrical costs of mass recovery are complete between urban and rural areas. Today's system provides direct incentive for greenhouse building as well as for agriculture on land to larger ground where the costs of transport are lower. It should, rather, be a force in the system to the contrary. Mr. President. I could have a lot more words about the situation, but then I'll take it together at the end, we'll need to give more specific support to gardening, vegetable production, and the innovation of food production. That's where the Conspiracy wants to go at least.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u21	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion, which is actually about sustainable use of Icelandic resources; clean water, earth heat, clean soil and renewable energy to produce food. Would it not be wise to start with government and manufacturers to set a common goal for domestic production to meet a specific percentage of domestic food consumption and then work together to achieve this objective in different ways? To their producers of innovation and product development? That governments provide access to electrical energy, education, research and stimulating innovation environments, as well as accessible and clear working environments, access to electricity at a reasonable price, and determination once and for all, for a single time, the price of electricity distribution across the whole country? Education must be ensured by intensive education and university education of direct-related food production, but also by a wide variety of other areas. It is many times in a Senate hall that innovation has to be linked to university education and research. This is consistent with the production of fresh food, such as in other areas. Although many times the food production in this country will always be small globally important, it will be important that in addition to research and innovation in food production in companies and universities in Iceland be associated with different universities worldwide developing and developing through a community of university partnerships in Iceland. We have recently encountered obstacles that may be unexpected in some way, such as ensuring a better knowledge of the global customs category of fresh food both in the import and export. It is so long known that packaging and transport of goods must be added to make it fresh on the market. [[The president calls.]] Finally, I will never back up with the fact that food carbon footprints are always remembered if the consumption takes place as next to a manufacturing site.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u22	President. Self - control is a future password. Without sustainability, we go to earth's resources and opportunities for future generations. We'll be about About 30 years ago, twice as many people on this earth as we were 30 years ago. People who were born in 1990 will live in half the population when they retire. We already see the consequences of this population. In the past 30 years, the size of the forest of Iceland's 13 - fold area has disappeared from the surface of the earth. Half of that area goes to new farms and mining. The areas that have been converted from unscrupulous nature to the havens for mankind are many of the unique and irreversible changes. Therefore, more sustainable than ever before, it becomes more important as humans grow on this earth. Each of us will have half as much room for food, for virgin nature, for a community of men after 30 years, as we had 30 years ago. Therefore, we need to plan very carefully the space we use to make sure that we do not walk on our own sustainability and nature. In this planning, there may be some of the solutions we can offer in Iceland. If we put on the vision of the future, we will see even more opportunities in targing in the years to come. Pirata's language on carnivores is about advances in technology not only carnivores but can also be used to produce a variety of cells. The potential benefits of this technology in feeding animals are worthy of all consideration. Now that fish feeder more than fish, the feeding of all fish needs to be considered. [[The president calls.]] A mother, formerly a part of the life - style of the oceans, now comes from a country. In 2016, 75% of all food for salmon in Norway was cultivated on land; wheat, corn, and beans were for salmon. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I wish I could have more of a case about this, both of our covert and carnivores. But it's a good discussion, and I'm celebrating it.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u23	Mr. President. This excellent discussion of a large subject should be presented. It's that we can make the most of our resources. It is that we can activate the intelligence to do better in using the resources. Here we are primarily talking about farming, warming, and fish farming. Of course, there is a basic requirement for circumstances and equipment to be easy to work in this field and to progress. It is important, especially when looking to agriculture, that we change a little about the curve and reevaluate the support systems in it, making them streamlined to the point that farmers can decide for themselves what to do, instead of building in many ways an out - of - date support system. Of course, there are many things that need to be kept in mind when considering these matters. We're talking about exports, and it's very important. There are, however, lions on the road there, even though only transportation or the possibility of being able to move to large quantities of products from the grouse. It's possible, but it's difficult because the ship transport here is just too big to get fresh products out of the market properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u24	A respectable president. It has been our policy to promote Icelandic gardening. The Icelandic economy is inhabited to a large extent by the three eggs, i.e. fishing roads, industry, and tourism. If we're growing our garden in Iceland, it could be the fourth egg. The current subsidies of electrical energy supply for gardening are not suitable. When the hot tub is just a big one, the main garden farmers tend to increase their production. As the production increases, the electrical prices increase and production decreases. Such a system prevents farmers from seeing their interests in increasing production. We're supposed to ensure that the energy supply is free or at least ... ata much lower price than goes and happens in other countries. In addition, we need to strengthen gardeners who want to increase production, and people who want to start gardening by providing subsidies for such projects, e.g. with subsidies at the expense of restoration of home nerves. Industrial farming in Iceland increases as the economy improves in two ways; as we produce more vegetables within the country, the need for imported vegetables is reduced and, if we increase the production of vegetables, it opens up the possibility of exporting. We're proud to have the greenest energy and the cleanest water. Why don't we make the best vegetables our way to the full? Yes, it's going to cost a little more, but subsidies on energy are investments that yield a lot of benefits; increase in jobs, increase in fresh vegetables, increased exports, and less carbon tracks. In my second speech, I will talk about the fish fire.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u25	A respectable president. We talked yesterday about a new market deal about gardening. This contract goes on to promote gardening and production by a quarter in the years to come. But I believe we can do better in the production of vegetables. The major bottleneck is high electricity costs. Indeed, it is high in many parts of the country, and we need to balance the cost of distribution fully. Telephones and bonuss are e.g. with the same prices all over the country. This, too, can be done about infrastructure, such as electricity. We should aim primarily to increase the share of domestic gardening and have a low carbon track. Inlands all kinds of plant and pesticide are being placed on plants. The manufacture of exotic vegetables and fruits is a great opportunity for pioneers to do this, and it is an excellent example of how to grow in wasrabi at the Egls. Such innovations may be much more supportive, since there are ideas and initiatives. Regarding fish fire, that certainly has a future in Iceland, both in sea and in land. The fact is that the demand for a fish protein around the world will only grow and prosper. There are many opportunities, such as. to use land farm waste, agricultural production, and ammonia production. Where space is present, there is great opportunity to create a general labor effort, which is desperately lacking. It is not enough just to create software jobs, as we are used to speaking about, using high - tech technology. Food production also requires a wide variety of jobs, especially in times where unemployment is as high as it is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u26	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A Ari Guðmundsson for good discussions and ministers for the answers that have already appeared. The country is very supportive, and this is regularly shown during the council. Last night the job committee's opinion was presented on the change in agricultural regulations, No. 99/1993, due to the work-recognised manufacturers of the horticultural products. It is a fine step to support the article, but we are expected to take a closer trip to the earth and build the climatic industry more fully with the powerful support, using the efficiency of the renewable resources of the country's land to increase climatic production, and increasing the number of jobs in the article already applicable to the largest workplace of the country or some 700 people. During last night's discussions with the agreements of the Commission on the employment committee, a great deal of the Parliament's willingness was shown to improve the country's graffiti status and to increase awareness. This is also true of agriculture. A respectable president. Foreseeability in farms' operating conditions related to agricultural contracts and the subsidies of electricity and electrical transport costs is one of the most important factors in the implementation of farms to increase their production and to achieve a 25% increase in agricultural production, as expected in the new agreement of agrienvironmental farmers, resulting in a change in agricultural products. In a high-paying country such as Iceland, competitive conditions for gardening are difficult, but in the country, energy can improve the competition of gardening by making the resource a new basis for promoting domestic production in competition with domestic subsidies of other countries as well as wholesome water and environment in Iceland, which is, of course, in green renewable energy. A respectable president. Strict support for innovation in gardening, including gardening, is required. with investment support. I wondered, " Can I look at the ways the council has agreed on in my housing, the first buyers of the stock loans? ' Clearly, support for the recent development and the innovation of fresh fruit is worth the effort.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u27	Mr. President. Of course, it is clear to all that in this country, as well as land supply on fish, there can be a significant increase in production of food products. We can do this in spite of the fact that we live in the north with a short summer, all of which are cool weathered, and much of the year's small sun is warm. This is because the benefits do more than weigh the faults. We have plenty of land, clean air, clean water, but also more than enough hot water from the earth, and we have finally harnessed the falling waters for electricity production. That's where we've sold most of the electricity to a industrialized being. At first, of course, this was to consider subsidies for the building of the inducers and distribution systems. Mr. President. We can do this. In many places, people have big ideas, such as. In the Alfuss, Helguvík, and beyond. All that is needed to create manufacturers in an adequate setting, and I'm talking about the price of electrical energy that, as a gardener says, is the biggest obstacle to growth and increase production. For example, the price of a kilowatt hour here is to those cultivating vegetables under glass, higher than in the Netherlands. Is that not contrary, Mr. President? No, talking about such a subject is not enough. Gardening conditions are not better. What is needed is a reduction in energy prices for this production, this healthy production, this green production.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u28	Mr. President. Increased vegetable production is a lethal tool for Iceland. This opportunity is unique. It uses Iceland's benefits in a sustainable way, is a commercialist, has changed consumer behaviour and is environmentally experienced in climate change times. But for this opportunity to be used, governments need to establish the structure with increasing official support. Electricity, transport costs, and other costs should be reduced. Extensive production of vegetables in this country should be part of a well - thought - out investment campaign instead of being a small side project that will float when the Ministers remember it. Mr. President. We are to set high goals. We are to have the goal of four times the production of vegetables in this country in the next few years rather than only a quarter of it, as the government's will is. It's a song. Food production and land use are linked to about one quarter of the total greenhouse gas emissions. Food emissions account for about 60% of animal products. If a few cows were a special nation, they would be third priority over the largest greenhouse gases produced after China and the United States. So future market agreements are to be more concerned with the green rather than with the four - footed. We need to help farmers change their production into this direction. We're supposed to support more new farmers working in a green manufacturing world. Making money may require money. Thinking may cost money, but it will pay off if it is reasonable. That's why there's four-fold veggie production here on the country a reasonable idea, and I'll throw it back in here again. [[The president calls.]] We need to grow out of this crisis, and the growth in it is green and good, and it is no worse if we can eat it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u29	V.E.G. President. I thank you for the fine and needed discussion that is important to all of us. In many parts of the earth, it is a powerful fish farm that has even been a long time. It is obvious that there is a growing industry and a solid foundation in many regions of the country. Unfortunately, much of the Icelandic farm fish is taken unaccounted to other countries. Confirming this, according to ASI's policy, it is estimated that billions of countries will be prepared annually because of the export of unmanned fish. There is clear opportunity, for it is clear to all of us that the region is a great knowledge of how these produce work. Not only is knowledge old but it is new. We're all capable of doing good things, and in fact, it's amazing to see what vegetarians are doing in brilliant distributions of land, water, and light. Many times I've had conversations with the highest. Minister of electricity costs and impregnables it here, to have said that, Mr. President. It is our duty to use all the resources we are fortunate to have access to. What a privilege it is to have access to wholesome, wholesome food! The good things we should share. Though we are small in the bigger picture, we live in a productive, temporary land. It is government to strengthen the infrastructure, so professional life prospers. I'm glad to hear it. Ministers are making clear about policy in these matters. We have a good plan, and we need to follow it. Therefore, for this reason, I would like to mention an idea of developing a grand effort to promote the full - time production of marine products and food and exports. [[The president calls.]] Offering an actual Icelandic, wholesome table of food to foreign countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u30	A respectable president. We already have a very important part of Iceland's food production, our food security, but there are also many exciting new projects in the process or in the box, e.g. in the industry, or culture of distant plants, such as Wasabi and Lörpera. We need to take self-sustaining seriously right now and be careful about organizing the territory we have available. The problem is global, and we have to do our part. President. In my first speech, I entered the Pirata and I on the matter of carnivore. Now I'm going back to where it was gone. A carnivore uses 99% less land space than it takes to cultivate animals and while technology may not provide roasted steaks, it may be useful to create animal feed while technology is perfect for human expectations. In the decades to come, it will be a tremendous challenge for us to cultivate food without walking on earth's resources and opportunities for future generations. The Ylp is an important part of the solution. There are many challenges we have to face, e.g. at expense of growing many common species. Maybe we should, for example. growing coffee in Iceland? It will probably never pay in the current situation because as coffee is cultivated, nature helps so much that it costs almost nothing. The cost of sacrifice, however, is natural and irreversibly the changes we make in order to obtain cheap coffee. Is that the cost nobody's supposed to pay? Nobody wants expensive coffee, but people still pay 500 bucks. ... fora cupof cafe. This is not to be paid for the use of unmoved nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u31	Mr. President. We do not think that there are many opportunities in these articles here. It also shows that many people are interested in this field and have made great success, and we have many examples of this. Just to mention two examples from their sector, I'd like to mention the company of Strawfish, which is exporting fertilized salmon eggs all over the world, and was reporting today about one of the largest contracts it has done with the American fish farm, a big contract for five years. I can also name companies such as World War II and the big-time owners of the one who's taking advantage of opportunities. But what I wanted to offer in my second speech is that in these areas, like everyone else, we need to make sure that the work environment is good. I'll think of it, because it's the highest. The new creation and industrial minister here, that it would be interesting to have an OECD assessment of employment conditions and competitive competition and competitiveness of Icelandic agriculture and fish farming. I'm sure it would be fascinating to see what would come out of such a survey. I think, as in so many other places, it is important that men and businesses and women enjoy themselves and get as much time as possible to create what is next to their heart. I think this is a very important part of our success in building a serious business that can create valuables, jobs, and jobs in this country, as well as if we are going to be successful in exporting.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u32	A respectable president. It is often said of innovation, but the discussion wants to get hairy. Some points are missing. As for the fish fire, Iceland and I could focus on further technological development of fires in sealed seas as well as in seawater. It would be possible to remove all waste from waste and in the salmon fire, but it can become a serious problem that sometimes needs to be overcome by poisons. Iceland could have its own fish farms by using only domestic food, such as fish flour and light. It would thus be impossible to rule out the use of soya flour produced in South America where rain forests are being burned to grow soybeans. In this culture, weed crops are also used that can feed toxins. If Iceland could build salmon farms in sealed vessels where food was a single product produced from domestic materials that would be obtained from the local fishing grounds, we could achieve specialisation on markets by pure products, environmentally friendly salmon or pink, all from Icelandic materials. A product that would be produced in a sustainable manner. There would be a serious innovation in the production of fresh food for exporting. We're supposed to choose this route in the fish fire, but we're not going to raise Norwegian salmon in Norwegian food using Norwegian methods and Norwegian equipment and partly with Norwegian employees. It's not a innovation. It's a colony policy and it's never gonna be able to earn us any special place on the markets. We'll be competing with Norway and the Faeroe Islands and Chile to sell Norwegian farms.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u33	Mr. President. First, I want to thank you for this helpful discussion and remind you that a conversation at the General Assembly, such as on this matter, shows that there is an amazing concordance in these matters, though one has something to criticize. I'd like to point this out through the discussion of this resource-garden idea, i.e. to use the heat of the earth and all its sources at larger sources of activation. It's very important, and like Orchidia, the rural community is coming in, this phenomenon that exists in the South, the cooperation of rural communities, land activations, and other bodies. It is important that this part of the European Commission is playing with them. I'd also like to mention the need for enough energy supply and easier connections and that it will not take long to get 1 or 2 or 3 MWs into a relatively large company in the farm. Then there are ships. Well, there are now two seaships that use the cohesive crew that are due to be greatly reformed, intended to be reformed at the Njardavótt, and on other central ports here on the country, all of which make it easier for ships to transport from the country. It's being handled. I would also like to mention increased support for innovation and warming and other such things in the country. It seems that some members of the Parliament did not listen to us at the highest level. A minister here, but we were listing countless points showing that the environment is being strengthened and improved. But whatever the case, there's enough work ahead of you for this government or the next one to do what we're talking about here in the audience.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u34	Mr. President. I thank you for this discussion, which contained a lot of interesting things. As I mentioned in the previous talk, I view the decision that we have already made in this regard. That's where we're going, and we're making decisions and taking action to get it. If we look at our policy, we can see that. A consideration of increased support can be seen. A consideration of innovation and energy policy can be seen. Food policy is in the final meters. The strategy of the Iceland Lab also speaks into this, and the opportunities out, this cycle of resources and resource parks, are absolutely key. That, in addition to our intelligence and funding and markets, enables us to move forward. We need clear rules, and we need simpler rules. We need to be sure that we are not an inhibitory factor. Rather, we need to make sure that our course is clear and competitive. We are to be built on our strengths, which are, for example, strengths. Energy, clean water, hot water, clever, short channels, etc. In my opinion, our role here is to ensure that we are building and strengthening the environment so that it is a powerful environment for individuals to move forward. The transport and distribution costs of electricity in this region were considerable. I just wanted to say that we're paying over 90% of the transport and spread costs, so they say. I felt that it was not a lot of work for the individual senators, but it certainly isn't. I can say with what. A senator thought it would be interesting to go to OECD in this regard. It would also be interesting to see the comparison between other countries and what we are competing for. We know it's all very dejected and controlled. What we're talking about here may be an opportunity to do things in just another way, and in my opinion it is most important that the environment is clear, efficient, guidelines clear, because it is the ambition and intelligence that we achieve real results.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u35	A respectable president. I asked for a few requests in six joints for a verbal answer, or at the beginning of October. Since then, much water has flowed to the sea, but most of the questions remain unclear. Iceland's innovation center was set up in 2007 by the integration of the Industrial Technology Institute and the Research Institute for the Building. The Agency has a facility in several places of the country, and there are employees and staff. with the task of storing up wands and pioneers to support them and to strengthen their first steps and guide them. In February, the minister announced that this institution would be laid down and that the project was intended to be brought under another management plan. And what would that mean? I ask a respectable minister: Does Ministers believe that it is acceptable, the nature of the case as well as the materials, this important scientific work, that a innovation centre will fail and that it can be carried out on the market, as it has said? This is a thought - provoking point. Today is November 18th. A bill on this important matter has not yet been identified. It hasn't been recommended. There has been no discussion at the council. Nobody knows what it looks like. Is it really a minister's intention that these laws become reality by the end of the year? More than 80 people work at the Second Creation Center. Will they all lose their jobs at the end of the year? Is it possible to consider the Minister to postpone at least this decision in the light of these circumstances? And does a minister really believe that it will be possible to accomplish this at the appointed time? There are some other questions I ask the highest. Ministers for answering and including how Ministers envision innovation's organization and pioneers in the wake of the absence of the New Creation Center. But before I finish this question-telling, I'd like to congratulate those who receive Iceland's New World Prize for Today, but the New World Prize will be due for the last time this day, at least in the present image, where the New Creation Center is supposed to be on the move.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u36	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry and wishes to congratulate Controlant on his award, I presume that each year's new award will continue despite these changes. In terms of how I picture the design of innovations and pioneers, following the fact that Iceland's New Creation Center is being put down for years, I want to mention first that the objective of the change in innovation is to promote support to innovation in the country by simple engineering, clear responsibility and strong contact with university society, career life, and pasture. Special emphasis is on the expansion of national innovations, support for the innovations of high technology and research and construction education. Work projects will be precipitous, deconstruction and flexibility will be increased, making public funds grow to the best of their means. It's gonna be even. conducted with an institution of a so-called technical site in cooperation with the university community, the creation of a project fund for innovation in the country, the shape of digital architecture, the transfer of a number of projects of the construction industry to Housing and edifying institutions, the establishment of competitive construction funds, the emphasis on professional construction tests and the emphasis on increasing integration and the simplicity of public service to professional living. In view of my policy on information and guidance services for pioneers and companies, in view of statements on the importance of the seminary, in particular on the national region, I would like to state that information and guidance services will continue to be emphasized to pioneers and company in the region of innovation. Official services for pioneers and starters will be prioritised and supported where it is most needed. Special attention must be given to promoting services and support to pioneers and the sceptre of the country through the fictitious fund and with increased donations for digital production. There is also increased emphasis on support to pioneers and wands in the field of high - tech technology, science, engineering, and related articles. New born and pioneers will continue to be emphasized in Icelandic school systems and support for application in foreign funds. These measures add to other government support, including government support. as well as other activities presented in financial programmes. Other actions for pioneers, such as those currently dealing with unemployment, including Due to the consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic, there are also some factors to consider. Hv. A senator asks how to ensure that the construction of innovation and infrastructure will be as stable as in the countries that Iceland prefers to meet up with the proposed changes. To answer, innovation in all manifestations is one of the main priorities of the government's government covenants, as well as the political financial and innovation policies. The available budget bill contains contributions to innovation, research, and knowledge fields increasing by less than 10 billion dollars. every year or more than 60%. Thus, a total of 40 billion dollars are being added. in the five-year financial programme, compared to large donations for the current year's budget. Much of the part flows to research and development projects from companies through the recycling system. Much of it goes to pioneers and wands through competitive funds, and things will flow to Crime, the catalyst of dierent investors, which will increase the financing potential of sceptres. These measures and priorities for innovation will not be affected because Iceland's New Creation Centre has stopped working in the form it is today. I believe, with increased priorities and sharper focus, the development of innovation and pioneers will be better than ever. Regarding how the funds that used to flow into the NMI will be spent, about half of them will be given on continued innovation and employment projects. The rest of it, over 300 million. K. I will not find new projects to spend it. The Senator asks if all NMI employees will lose their jobs. Not so, fortunately. About 70 people work at the Agency today. Half of them get jobs in relation to assignments that will be continued elsewhere. 13 Over the years, 13 employees have stopped working for the sake of other jobs. The Agency will be abandoned at the end of the year by the year due to age and will be paid for and about 20 people will receive their resignations or their remuneration agreements. But they're warning us that we're on the final meters to take care of these factors. Then the senator asks when there is a proposal for two schemes on the implementation of projects that were formerly part of the National Research Institute for Building, such as extensive research on mold problems in Icelandic buildings. Which is why I hope that tomorrow's official support bill will be distributed. I signed the papers yesterday, which will go to President, so I hope it will be distributed here at the council tomorrow and possibly at the latest Friday. It presents a very clear description of how research, testing, and education in the construction industry will be carried out, both in law and in paper, and in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs. On May 1, the law is unmistakably valid. It takes time to go into a showdown and something like that, but I hope this will be enough time for the council to discuss the matter. [[The president calls.]] In the end, there has been a lot of work that is clearly done on the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u37	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister only introduced what I was going to ask at the end of his talk and announced that there would be information that would respond better tomorrow, reminded me that she said. But I would like to emphasize the importance of these aspects for the continuation, that continued testing of mold and building materials will be ensured after the collapse of the New Creation Centre. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of how she intends to do this, and how to ensure that professional knowledge and capitals follow this jury. It's under the roof. Ministers enough to ensure that a private person can benefit from this? The same way, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What's to become of the knowledge available to the New Creation Center of Iceland in this category?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u38	Mr. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir The Goddess of Brjánsson for these important questions. These are questions that many have been waiting for. In fact, I was disappointed with the highest answers. Minister, did not feel that there was a more advanced picture of the situation going on. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it is more clear in the bill how innovation in the country will be implemented. Who will these employees who remain in service stay at the Ministry, or will they be with someone else? I've also been very concerned, Mr. President, that this is a matter that the Minister has announced in the Constitution to be published in October, this November is almost over, and this case is hopefully entering the council tomorrow, like the Supreme Court. Minister to state. That's what makes it great. Ministers really assume this big case will be finished by Christmas? I have to admit that according to the number of statements made in consultation, we can expect that there will be a great deal of visitors and a lot of discussion about this subject, which is also worthy of careful discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u39	Mr. President. I have to state some doubts about a minister's intention to put down the New Creation Centre. What I'm worried about is what the workers of the Creation Centres themselves have been pointing out, that this decision will simply reduce support to innovation and pioneers. I wondered, " Is a minister not ready to listen a little better to the workers who have worked in this sector and within the center to see if we can't get closer together? ' I know employees have been meeting with the Minister, and that must be a bit of a turn-off. And I hope the Minister listens to some logic. I'd also like to give the highest attention. A minister to important work because we see in the Minister's budget that the increase in innovation at these times is only 0.3% of domestic product. The increase in national production is 0.3% in the period of Covid. [[The president calls.]] Second number: If we take the total total budget of the new-born population, it is less than 1% of the domestic product. [[The president calls.]] In what world does the Minister believe that it is enough to meet the deepest crisis in Iceland for 100 years?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u40	The president asks for a talk period, but in such brief talks, each second is precious.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u41	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. I agree with what happened next. paritaprevir Friðbjörg Flandish the daughter of Elíasdóttir, and this is precisely the case with the region. The representatives of the New Creation Centres are important for the rural population, for they have knowledge and advice that people may otherwise have to apply for long distances at high cost. These are a little cold greetings to people in the scattered areas who also work in important pioneers and wands. Then I'd like to refer to words of the highest degree. A minister where it says that one of the indicators of a new creation policy for Iceland is making use of funds for research and pioneers beyond the management and management. Is that what it looks like? Minister that this is too much of a major part of the New Creation Centre operation? And is it not necessary to expect these aspects of all such work? There is concern that such a scientific and knowledge institution, which is largely based on continuous work over time, should go to the market, as is the red thread. What factors should be considered in the market? The highest. A minister pointed out something? That's over 700 million. K. to operate as a financial center at the Institute of Creation, from a government fund. It is estimated that nearly half of the budget will be used to comply with the activities and institutions involved. Where's the rest of it going? Where does it go?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u42	Mr. President. So I'll first answer about independence and inequities, both in tests and in tests, they'll set up an independent competition fund for construction and humanitarian research. Concern for conflicting interests in this area is unconcerned, and independence from competitive funds is a well - known way to support research in all areas. In addition to focusing on research in the construction industry, we contribute to the production of the quality of the construction project by professional organisations in accordance with international quality requirements. I think it's very important that this should be made clear. In the case engineering agencies take a test of construction products, and they may be reported by the government, professional practice is required under the laws of construction products. One condition in which a test room can be approved in a designated field is that the test room is neutral, regardless of stakeholders and independent. Otherwise, she can lose her skills. A thrill is that my very best way of knowing that these requirements are fulfilled is by far the best way to make sure that they are fulfilled. This brings us to the conclusion that there is not enough innovation on the part of the government. So I couldn't agree more. As I came into my previous answer, contributions to innovation, research and knowledge in the existing budget are increasing by less than 10 billion dollars. between years or more than 60%. Thus, a total of 40 billion dollars are being added. in the five-year financial programme, compared to large donations for the current year's budget. I'd like to add that which I and what. I'm sure a senator would agree that my knowledge is a measure of how powerful our innovation is, how fast we can move forward and how much better we can be, not as measured by how much money the state puts into this seminar, and I've always been overly clear about it. For that question, what happens to the rest of the remaining half of the project, but over 300 million aren't new, I'm going to give it back to the state fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u43	Mr. President. When the Women's Art was first visited by the Generals, it attracted some attention when his representatives took up calling themselves senators. It wasn't undisputed. The story tells us that a member of the congregation who has not been appointed was gently pointing out that women are also men. So we're about to go. Guðrún Agnarsdóttir to fail by pointing out the window in the south, saying, "Look, for example, the President." The two men standing right there on the Tanner Bank. One is pregnant and I could believe that the other one was on the tour. In fact, traditional language use here at a meeting called an unpublished male gender can be so far from giving all people the impression that they are part of the conversation, and in the use of language, sex rights can be built up. By law the land shall be inhabited not only by the instructions given in the law but also by the society shaped by the law, including the law. with the language used in them. This discussion is neither new nor confined to Iceland. An interesting experiment in this direction was made by a board of governance, which began his 90 - year - old decree of the words: ▪ All of us are equal to the law. That's not all of them who are equal to the law, it's all of us, because we're all making society together and we're all alike. International institutions, such as the United Nations and the European Union, have long ago put a clear frame on the use of languages, including ... soshedoesn'tdiscriminate the sexes. The need to keep these matters in focus is likely to be similar to people with different backgrounds. However, the Assembly around us does not seem to have set such standards. In most lands, however, it is a public language, which embraces them. to the council and to the administration. Thus, the Norwegian Language Committee has provided guidelines on speech that contributes to a balance between the sexes and in Sweden, to work against the use of language that maintains sexual roles and renders women invisible. Just as women of women sat here during a council, the Norwegian Parliamentary creations were changed, so instead of speaking of the ◯form and the ◆nest form, they were adopted into ◯leder and Šnestleder, i.e. cleared from sexual expressions. This spring, on the women's international day, the Norwegian government decided that the government's office and job title would be genderless. All the men and gentlemen now have to start using something completely different. Short, combined: Changing our traditions may be difficult, but these may be just small points to consider. First of all, rather than either sex, rather than an unpublished male, second, to rethink the use of prefixes, to say all rather than everyone, they rather than them, and third, to update the vocabulary, as when job names refer to gender. [[The president calls.]] The inquiry presented here is whether a minister should consider the basis for serious implementation of this work in the Management Board and at the legislature. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u44	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry, perhaps primarily of the formal language use that might be heard under the board's seminary. In fact, since 2012, the current seminary of the Council is 2012, and it is definitely time for its review. It is, in fact, the right place to take this important discussion about the use of sex in the language. Then we have what is known as the Icelandic seminar under the Icelandic Language Committee. Secretary of education and culture discussing the general language use. Yet, these two things always need to be together in some way. It is interesting to discuss this in view of the need for the discussion, and I remind myself of my bill of sexual autonomy, which became a law here, where there is no gender registration, as well as the basic rules I've recommended at this council, where the law is just as sexless as possible, i.e. On the one hand, a bill to correct equal positions and equal sexual rights as well as a bill to correct a set of laws because of the sexual autonomy laws. I'm not going to list all the changes that were presented there, but it's under attack to introduce to some extent a sexless language profile, as I actually went to my front story talk. However, there are certain examples that I could mention, including. They speak of people rather than men, because of reason. A senator specifically mentioned that word, but neither gender is used, not male language. It is difficult, however, to compare Icelandic languages altogether with other languages without remembering that there are three grammatical genders, which are designed to form two in Danish, and in Norwegian, which I think is best. A senator has quoted. There are two grammatical genders. Since there are three in the English language, it affects the way we discuss these matters, that we have the grammatical and grammatical gender outside the grammatical neither gender. And we are faced with what is at its height. The president mentioned the above when he spoke to a prime minister who, for example, was reputed on the subject of a minister, and then later, some female ministers even addressed him by his first name, which is grammatically correct but not biologically accurate, as the words show. I mentioned at the outset that this is a discussion that I think should be held at home on the Board of Justice, of course the Board of Directors, which is therefore also needed to have a conversation with the General, if we were to consider the procedure of this matter. The nature of the case has to form a reference to the neutral registration of sex in the sex-specific legislation, resulting in the formation of legal and regulations that include gender analysis, i.e. male or female must also expect those who choose to have a neutral registry of gender. I have already encouraged individual ministers to revise specific regulations and rules for their years in order to ensure that people have equal facilities regardless of gender. In this discussion, what would have to be discussed is made available in Icelandic, legal, and other official texts of gender. Then methods, such as those mentioned earlier, can be used to replace people with humans, etc., or to add special rules to those who have changed their sex registration. Then it is the discussion of walking further and making these changes in the Icelandic language and taking up a new personal name for those who choose to have a neutral sex registration. Then perhaps we have entered the seminaric field and the Supreme Court. Secretary of education and culture. But this is what's going on. I'm calling here to form a human-name bill which is here at the council from the highest level. A minister of justice suggested that a person's last name be able to end a brush, as well as the traditional son and daughter. This is a proposal that originally appeared in the season of the 78 Conspiracy Contest in 2015. [[The president calls.]] The exchange of neutral sex in a national registry, in cooperation with the 78 Association, was concluded that the name for a new sex will be sexized/other. [[The president calls.]] This is thought to reach as much peace as possible within a queer community so that as many people can agree with it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u45	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answer. She did not want to mention too many examples, but I would like to mention one of the laws of careful scientific practice, which I believe to be the highest. Minister has submitted. In the first century C.E., God's Word, the Bible, says: "The whole world is lying in the power of the wicked one. " par.: ▪ Those who do research must exercise caution. I find this to be a good example of how to make minimum changes in language so that it reaches all of us. Here the minister referred to the changes involving the sexual autonomy laws. I just think they're part of the reason we need to discuss this here and now because they're part of the change in equality, that we're at a certain point. It has to be said, as it is, that the changes that are now being made in parentheses from different resources to deal with the realities of sexual autonomy laws are at most minimal changes. We are, for example. with a change in children's law, where the words of mother and father are usually changed to parents, just the most clear terms, or a special law is set up for those with neutral registrations. We need to go much further. We need to take the form of the language that it takes, and that's exactly where we live. A minister came in, we have a third sex, we have neither sex, and we have a first name that could be used there. We can use the tall, sexless first name. It can be taken to that end, not only to individuals with objective registration of gender, but also to whom physical or social sex is not known or not relevant. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is that in most of our laws, sex should not matter. [[The president calls.]] That's why we should be able to say things open.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u46	Mr. President. As I went over to a little too long here, the Icelandic Council of the Council of Government is like 8 p.m. track No. 61/2011, which was recommended at the General Assembly when I was serving as minister of education and culture, on the status of Icelandic language and sign language. It states that the language used in the Management Board or on the behalf of the Council is Icelandic and that it should be practical, simple, and clear. The Management Board's seminar is designed to ensure that these regulations and objectives of the law are being fulfilled, that the seminar is being implemented, and that it is reviewed regularly, and that this will be agreed with the Icelandic Language Committee, as well as with a language committee on Icelandic Sign Language. As I learned earlier, the current language is becoming eight years old. The word has much more rapid changes in both the legal environment for gender and the social outlook. So it is clear that this course needs to be updated and reviewed in consultation with the National Affairs Committee. This is a project that will be considered in that field. However, I reiterate what I said earlier, that it is important to have a conversation with the Council about such changes and to study the developments that have occurred in the countries around us. Hv. One member noted that while most of the north have what is known as gay, and neither sex, there are three genders that are male, female, and neither gender that are grammatical, that are not male and female, but sexual, and so neither gender. But here we are in the grammatical speculations that require a considerable longer speaking period. However, there is something that needs to be considered in this regard. But I am stressing that this too is done in a conversation with the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u47	Mr. President. This is not the first debate we members of the Parliament have here at the highest level. Healthcare Minister on the medical waiting list status and I don't expect it to be the last. There is no point in the easy - to - face approach. It's working in another field, at the Department of Health, by the World Health Organization and the World Health Committee, if so, and that's why my questions are simple. Experts have been free of agreement with health authorities for two and a half years, and ministers have repeatedly stepped forward and declared that contracts are being negotiated and that treaties are being won, but few continue. At the same time, doctors have repeatedly called upon to know what the Kingdom's ministry is seeking and that there has been little to answer. I'm sorry, and I'd like to take this opportunity here and encourage the highest. Minister to act. For land surgeons, you can see a list of people waiting for selected procedures such as eyestone surgery, hip and knee replacement surgery, stomach surgery due to obesity, cholelithir surgery, selected pelvic organ procedures for women, or leg resection, so I now list the details of the quality of the waiting list. We often like to talk about these selective hip and knee operations as if they were the start and end of everything, but these are quite a number of measures. These actions are carried out at Land Hospitals and by events of other health institutions in the country and many of them from private sources. On the other hand, we do know that often those who are looking for the full price of paying are due to lack of agreement with the health authorities. That situation is the result of the government's political policy, and we have often discussed it. In view of the pressures of the medical system today, I would like to ask if a minister would consider that Iceland's health insurance is going to negotiate with independent working doctors to work down a waiting list for important action on this list in view of the pressures that are currently off-limits. I repeat, I'm sorry, but this is the focus right now. Dr. Alma Möller has said that the Korean epidemic has included: Drawing out the system's weaknesses. I would like to make this decision, and it's not just my opinion, it's the opinion of the surgeon and of all the known persons, that the epidemic has shown the strength of the system, but it's brought up the weaknesses of the system of small systems and the problems that lead to failures in the system and the nature of the problem is being pushed towards a higher level of latency. So I ask: Is there an opinion of developing independent functional units outside the state - bearing system to meet the needs of patients and improve performance and reduce the waiting - list problem right now? [[The president calls.]] As a precaution, I would like to ask: If the answer is positive, as we now work on next year's budget, does the minister send messages into the work to add to this section of the system's challenges? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u48	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for pointing to me this verbal inquiry. The Senator asks: Do Ministers think that Iceland's health insurance will be treated with independent operating doctors to process a waiting list for important action such as replacement operations? It should be noted, in particular, that selection procedures are varied, both in magnitude and in severity. They are carried out in various measures, both in public health institutions and in private operating physicians in private operating rooms. Selected measures are prioritized on urgency. A European Hospital plays a key role in our struggle with Covid-19 and there is a great force in ensuring the reaction required to provide all who are looking for it and who have become ill by Covid safe, emergency, and good health care. Hence, the priorities set out for the nature of the patients who are considered to be not to be waiting and also from day to day it is determined whether other elective surgical procedures, defined as waiting surgery, can be performed and referred to as follows. Undeniably, the number of possible action has affected the situation, but according to law No. 40/2007, by permission of a minister, is a health care facility that the government has authorized to assign to other health professionals and to care for certain aspects of the health care that they should provide. There has been no request for a minister from the National Institutes of Health who conduct replacement operations or other important measures to delegate this authority to other health institutions to these services, and no special decision has been made to assign health insurance directly to independent operating physicians on the procedure of replacement operations. However, I am stressing that to ensure the best of service, it may be necessary to examine the resources that exist within the country. Hv. A senator also asks: What measures have a minister taken to cope with the delay of travel restrictions and the pressures of the pandemic health system? My answer is that various factors can affect hospital performance and thus wait for surgery. Bioavailability to larceny is one of the reasons for action. It is important, therefore, that their use is correct. To contribute to this, additional extracurricular services are needed that meet the needs of those who do not necessarily need hospitalisation. On this I have stressed as a health minister to ensure their best access to services requiring surgery or hospitalisation for other reasons. So the service I have even. Emphasis on intensification is health care services, increased home care, increased nursing care, increased rehabilitation, and increased mental health care. A new health policy was set up to point the way to 2030, a new nursing program was developed, and a number of new nurses have been introduced in use, last in March when 99 new nurses were put into use on Plain Road. Home care has been given to promote the use of well - being technology in the ministry. All of this service contributes to improved access to public hospitals, which again interferes with the scope of action. I bring it here, a respectable president, because it's a chain. Most important, I would like to mention the emphasis I have placed on the importance of health care staff because the service will be rendered only if there is the correct knowledge and proper number of health care professionals. So there is much to consider to make sure that the ministry is rendered in place and at the right time. By means of a concerted effort at the beginning of the third wave of Covid, or the wave in which society and health care are currently dealing, many institutions have been able to reduce significantly to the graduation problems of Land Hospital by increasing the number of patients, whether in nearby nursing institutions, nursing homes, or by significantly increasing the household care available for those who are able to return to their own home after hospital stays. This means that there is released within the hospital, which ensures better service there. I hope that as the pressures of the health system for Covid-19 decline, as we see now that the National Hospital is in an emergency, there will be a very large increase in the selective measures needed to delay over the past few weeks and to work handsomely on existing models.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u49	A respectable president. I appreciate this fine discussion. This is a familiar discussion, and we are happy to discuss the issues of those in need of replacement operations and where to conduct them. My opinion is that there are a number of options there, but we should carefully examine its economic and, of course, professional benefits, especially the financial factors, with the cost analysis, cost assessment, and prices of this service. But there is a lack of money. I want to direct questions to the highest. Minister. There are other measures to be considered for Aranesp. With that situation, how many measures does a minister think that the institution, and the public health system, could be available at least every year in terms of replacements? And the second at the end, a respectable president: Do Ministers, in view of need analysis, consider that the public health system will have opportunity to respond to the yearly need for such measures in the near future, with the proposed growth? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u50	A respectable president. I think this is a good discussion here. I personally don't care if a public service or an independent service is performed. Of course, when it comes to our health, the patient's health, and the second, the quality of the services we offer, and the third, about the practicality. I believe that we will achieve best with the reconstituted system. Of course, we have a mixed system and a mixed system is actually in every country we compare with. A respectable president. I just want to reiterate that every time we talk about our medical system and our health care at the end of the meeting, it is always the quality of the ministry for the individual. If private workers can come and help us to render the ministry faster and better, in a practical way, we should certainly look to it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u51	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. However, I would like to emphasize that I do not view crisis conditions as now the time point in making decisions about the targeted changes in the health system. Much more is involved in getting through the crisis, learning from it, and then making decisions when the crisis is over. I also want to point out that while it is important to negotiate with experts, of course it is important, we must not forget that making decisions now, in the situation as it is now, about other selective measures in town, may possibly add to the pressures of the public health system. Therefore, every step you take must be very careful. The situation now requires us to focus on the crisis, learn from it, and like a Katrín. Friðriksson It would be wise to consider what we can learn from this and how we can improve our system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u52	Mr. President. I appreciate the answers. Ministers, as well as members of the council. Clearly, the discussion is very close to all of us. I wanted to back up a little because of a word. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Gunnarsson's son. I can give advice, but I can agree that a crisis may not be a reason to make such a targeted decision. But we disagree whether we are doing it because we have a mixed system, such as the driving force. paritaprevir The Br ratherus Haraldsdóttir points out, so I feel that the aim of not turning to the private people who can and who have offered to help lighten the list. I'd like to see it for a long time, but I'm talking here about the sound of the few we live in now. And as for this to increase the pressure on the system, I've been looking at numbers since that phrase came up and I can't see anything that substantiates the fact that there's a real reason to worry about it. Thank you very much. Minister for the indentation, that was, in many respects, illuminating. We'll continue this, but I specifically took it as the highest. The minister spoke of, under the law, that if any of the clinics were found, they might be able to handle the task, so to speak, search outside, and assign it to others to do action. I mean, I mean, in this case, there were experts outside the state system, but no wish had been received from them on such a warrant. I'm surprised if the situation is that they have that ball. I'd like to ask a minister to explain it to me better. I would've thought the bottom line was at the top. Ministers and that the data that were fundamental to it would simply be the front committees of waiting and individuals on them.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u53	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion, and I'll agree with that. I'm sure it's not the last time we talk about this. I think it's a good reason for a special discussion rather than to do it like this in the run of the afternoon. I'm counting on it. A senator or someone else will take that ball because we need to discuss these matters. In terms of the fundamental fact that action in a town affects the pressures of the Land Hospital, it's only real, and that's why we're temporarily grounded in selective measures, as we do now in Covid. There is a knowledge that is fundamental because if there are variations or problems with such operations in a town, it is the Landsitarian who intervenes as always. I agree with what. paritaprevir Ólafur Þór Jónsson's claim that a crisis is not a good time to make policy decisions. I'm also very much concerned that when decisions are made, we always have to keep the overall vision. That's why I don't agree with how I'm doing. paritaprevir Haraldsdóttir says it's just a question of what the individual gets, as she says in the spirit of his party. It's about that there's a context in the whole system. It's a chain, and each decision affects the system as a whole. Because the number of measures on Aranesp are now being asked for, but when the joint replacement site is due to be fully started in February 2022, this number will increase by 100. Then we'll have to start talking about 300 operations on Aranesp. [[The president calls.]] It'll change the situation considerably. But I reiterate, a respectable president, that we need a better time to discuss this.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u54	President. I'd like to talk to the minister of education and cultural culture about protecting children from violence in school, including harassment. First, I'd like to thank the minister of Education and Culture for immediately taking the initiative. She's talking about her doing this now, starting with more work. During an election year, you often think: Yes, it's just that somehow you're trying to play some politics. But no, the Minister of Education and Culture has taken steps in this terms, both in forming a mobbing counsel under the Institute of Education and Culture, in order to increase information to the school community and to parents and to the children who become harassed, as well as by the laws of communication counselors in youth and sports. So I trust the Minister of Education and Culture in this category. I trust her to want to do really well when it comes to protecting children from violence and harassment in school. I would like to ask a general question, three: What options are available to ensure that children will then be protected from the violence they are entitled to do at school? What measures have worked best? I ask these questions because I've been doing these things for a long time and have been helping parents understand how the system works. What is the responsibility? How can parents of children who get victimized get a solution in this matter, be arrested? And it's just different what it's like. The mother of a boy who was harassed at a school in the city pointed to this, got on the television news, and the case was resolved by the school authorities. They were stepped in and asked for help. The question was asked what would work and the case was solved. Then I am helping other families now, since the matter has come to a point, all the way to the mobbed had to be sought because the school authorities were not ready to step in. There we are talking about a child who has been exposed to physical violence over and over for two years, about a boy who is seven years old today, who is subject to physical violence, which the school authorities admit, but there is nothing to be done about it, it is not stopped. The first question is, What has worked? And then, what protection from school violence is entitled to children? If, as the law says, their right protection is carried out, and the law is good, the execution is what appears to be missing, how long can it be since child abuse in school is discovered to stop it? One thing I want from a minister: What steps will a minister take in order to fulfill what is lacking, which is this active education and entrance when the school authorities do not know what to do, when parents do not know what to do, when children do not know what to do?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u55	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson query. This is a very important matter. One of the most important things for young people is that they are comfortable at school. I was introducing a new level of education at a Senate resolution here last night, and one of the basics there is that we put our well - being in the wind. We'll mention some of the factors there. Our noses are preventative, mental health, and mental health. What works best? questions are asked. What works best is prevention. It works best for the school community, for parents, and for all to join in making a positive schoolblade. Since it has been done, and I have studied these matters quite well as well. A senator, has worked, so people don't have to end up with the premeditation of mobbing, which is actually the end zone. We want to take a much more precautionary measure, and we're developing a plan that's aimed at it. It takes several years to implement it because the project is very extensive and every school is required. It has to be done nationally so that the same access to this preemptive work, and as I say, we have the most faith in it. Like what? A senator mentioned that we went to a particular job, and legislation was adopted at the General Assembly on communications counselors in sports and youth relating to sexual violence. We went to that job with the sports and youth movement, and that was their initiative. The grasslands contacted, and we listened. There is a representative to advise those who are victims of such cases, how to enter them, he is the third neutral. The communication counselor started his job - when you're standing here in a pit, I feel like it was yesterday, but I think it was about the last year, and there seems to be quite a good experience. It's prevention. But then, in my opinion, a certain transfer device is needed to deal with events that are urgent. What's been going on at the National Institute of State is that they can come into their affairs, of course, in a very formal way, and they take into account the whole administration, since these are often an overly sensitive issues. But what we need to add is that even a representative of this model, a social and youth official, is there someone who can enter very difficult cases with relatively short notice. We have a certain experience with a great enterprise called Erdidi. They shared this role, and one of the experts there is now in the trade of harassment. We're just gonna have to mix it up. First, there are prevention measures, very large, far greater than ever, and this needs to be taken on a regular basis. Loneliness has developed. When we were young, there were not all these brilliant devices and some of the things that are going on in harassment are something parents need to get to know through their children and not even have an education or an idea of what is going on. I'm having a conversation with the National Institute of Education about raising this reflex. I think it's very urgent, and I hear it's the experience of the Institute of Education. I'd say we're talking about a three-way approach. We need to invest more in preventive measures, and I've been in a conversation with some professionals about a plan that would even become a three-year plan, very ambitious, taking into account Icelandic circumstances. We need to get on to these matters more quickly and safely, and of course, we have been doing what they can do.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u56	Mr. President. I thank you for this discussion, but I would like to use this opportunity only to mention that a recent survey shows that one third of gay youths have experienced dissatisfaction at their school, have experienced spiritual and even physical violence, and experience apathy. And it is also very clear that they experience an improvement in the way a queer youth learns and learns, that is, study and instruction that paves with the other characteristics, the diversity, and the demonstrations of these young ones, their lives, and their subjects. It is not enough for teachers who are interested in this subject, either because of what they teach or because they relate to gays, to give these youths what they need in Icelandic school systems. All teachers need to be able to do this. Sports instructors need to know this, math teachers, geology teachers, all teachers, if our gay minors are to get it out of an Icelandic school system that we want all young people to get. I wanted to put this into the discussion, it's not a good place.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u57	President. Thank you very much. The Minister of Education and Culture is very much concerned with the answers and initiatives she has shown in this category, and the next step. I think this is the exact missing point. What we hear from the UNICEF that is to be observed and to help that it is actually fulfilled that in the United Nations Children's Convention on Child Rights of Children's Laws in Iceland, it is lacking in follow-up, that is lacking at the highest level. The Minister of Education is talking about it. This is precisely what is needed to ensure that it is actually being carried out by law. I've been through all the rights of children, they're really cool in Iceland. I see the Minister of Education and Culture has his finger in his pulse. The education is needed, not only for parents but also for the authority of the school. At an open meeting at the Commission and Control Committee, the Generals' agent declared that he was accepting permission to take up educational material for the national administrations, how to enforce administrative laws. His role is to ensure the safety of the citizens in the administration. He says: Everyone is willing to do things, but the education is lacking. We need to approach the matter in a way that, as the Ministry of Education says, there is an expert who can step in and help right away. Prevention, the holistic education, must be there to teach the school authorities, to teach parents, to teach children how things should be done, and an expert should be able to step in and help if the school authorities say: "We're not sure about this, can you come and help? If parents say, " What should I do? ' Can you come and help? This person must be there to assist in the pattern of laws adopted by the minister. [[The president calls.]] In fact, I'm talking about early intervention, and if you're used to doing this, it's gonna be much more effective and much less expensive. They all make up for it, that's why.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u58	A respectable president. Education has been discussed in this discussion, and it is absolutely complete, and we agree on that, that it needs to be increased, and it needs to be updated because things have changed in the past five to six years. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Katrín Friðriksson mentioned queer children and youths in his language, that they are not feeling well, and the numbers are striking. I spoke for high school yesterday. That's where we focus on diversity. We emphasize well - being, that each one can be in the school system on his own terms. It is a special provision for diversity and mobilization and early support, which is of utmost importance. The education systems that invest very early in prevention, in well - being, in harassment and education, that everyone is aware of what the situation is and how we should treat one another, just better. I've taken it together at the Ministry of Education and Culture where the funds go. If we compare ourselves with the Finnish system, there will be much more money at the first level, six, seven, eight, and then less. But in our midst, it increases with age, making it more expensive, and it becomes harder to intervene in these delicate matters. So I've spent a long time focusing on these early school, nursery, and elementary school because I'm absolutely convinced that if we can get a close hold of a teacher's education and all that she has to do with all these matters, at that point everybody feels better and then we can stop them a lot earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u59	Mr. President. Indeed, the last few months have reminded us of the importance of fire defenses. Since May, six people in this country have died of fires, but so many deaths have been caused by them, we have not seen in one year at least. 40 years. This tragic incident has naturally raised an extensive discussion of burning defenses in an apartment building, but also about the facilities and equipment of foreign workers serving here in the country, as well as the responsibility of the landlord to secure the quality and safety of housing. This discussion I consider to be good, and I hope it will lead to tangible improvement in these areas. Indeed, it is vital that people living in that land have the opportunity to live in a secure and suitable home that meets all the demands of the community, whether they stay here for a short or longer time. Having a safe haven is a human right. So it made me think about it when I read news in late summer that a woman who lives in an unauthorized penthouse in the downtown city of Reykjavík had been having trouble attacking the improvements in burning defenses at her apartment because of the refusal of one of her neighbors. She had just decided to take fire control of her apartment more closely following the fire of the Belorust city path. It is certainly a natural principle that some changes in houses depend on the approval of more than or even all owners. One of the basics of the tenure law is that an apartment owner should take a reasonable, normal view of other owners. It is shocking, however, that the neighbor can completely stop normal fire - defense reforms from taking place, reforms that can even prevent catastrophes or the incarceration of people. It's both ways of thinking. Thus, other homeowners need to take into account the great interests each owner has of safe fire protection. I wondered, " Is it not necessary to improve the process to make it easier for people to ensure that they live under adequate burns, that such projects are not up to one neighbor or owner? ' It may be appropriate to make legal decisions regarding these matters in connection with making decisions. Even the administrative board would need to be examined regarding such changes in housing. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister if he intends to suggest a change in the law on the real estate, with the aim of making it easier for the owners of individual apartments to act in behalf of fire defenses that have already been approved by the government. If so, can we expect a bill to be there? What changes do the minister envision?
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u60	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for taking up the matter of fire defense here at Generalis sales and saying that I share concerns. A senator and also sadness over the number of deaths that have been caused last year, both in the Prefect of Town as well as in other fires that have taken place, to form recently in urban armies. I also share my opinion. The senator's importance is to keep up the fire defenses in this country. When the jury moved to the Department of Social Affairs and at the establishment of the House and Civilization Agency, one of the things that was especially looked at was how to promote burn prevention. One of the key proposals was to initiate the application to set up a specific burning field within the Housing and Manning Institute, which means that one of the four stings of the Agency, and consequently about 25% of its activities, should be stressed to burn prevention in the next few years. That should include. turning to fire crews, fire crews, prevention and preventive measures as well as possible changes in the legal environment. Part of this action is already under way. For example, a special fire - defense campaign is now beginning in the near future, which aims to help people and families to burn and perform services that have not been performed before. It'll be presented in the near future. Like a snooze. A senator mentioned the crisis on the Braerburg stairway. Then came a discussion about burning management, the responsibilities of landlords, and the circumstances of foreign workers, all in the same way. As a result, the natural process begins with a study of the burn that is being conducted by a Housing and Mobilization Institute. She's working on a test that's in the final meters, I think I should know. At the same time, the Agency, in cooperation with the Ministry, has been requested to evaluate the actions of others that might be taken, legal action, changes in law and other laws, to promote burn prevention and prevent events like that. Can we make some legal adjustments? Is there any way we can attack these changes? A senator mention? This includes: to examine multi Cities, housing laws, and other laws linked in one way or another with fire protection and housing, as well as with labour market laws. Yet, more has been involved in renting houses, property laws, circumstances, and construction regulations, and so forth. I just got word from last week that the study was in the final meters and that suggestions would be presented to a minister over the next few days so that we could determine what measures we could take quickly. I cannot take my stand exactly on the proposal. In fact, I could not see the story as well as the underlying one. A senator refers to, but I will bring it to those who work on this assessment immediately. Not only are we supposed to be able to examine the burns and its causes but we also need to think quickly about the changes to take, and we can attack to improve and reduce the risk that this can happen again in Icelandic society. So I may not have a direct answer for what. A senator on whether and how and what adjustment will I see to be under attack, especially because we together decided to start some work, which I hope will end well before Christmas so that we can put more energy into it in the new year.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u61	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for. That's an excellent publicity this morning on the French city path. It shows that fire defenses were badly lacking, as we have heard. There was no balcony, there was one escape route from the giant hill, a ladder that stood in flames, a fire extinguishor had not been released long, etc. Of course, there are many factors. But what I think is, when someone can just stop you from making a lifeline, that you make an emergency exit. In homes where people have registered legal homes, even if an apartment is unassigned. There I don't think the lawgiver is quite talking to himself, allowing it, but at the same time saying some other law that can really be denied such an emergency. It is good to hear that work has started and that some ideas or suggestions are to be expected. We can't drag this off too long. This is a time of year when Christmas is ahead and there is never so great a risk of any of these events. Sadly, that is the time of the year. I just think it's a sad fact that we've lost so many people this year in a fire, more than 40 years. That must push us, and I hope that a minister will have something for us to cut out after the New Year's, which I think is a responsible work and attitude in the light of circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u62	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator. The fire on the Braerburg road was that it touched so many surfaces that relate to this in one way or another, and we wanted to allow it to pass through, ask suggestions from there, and work together with the suggestion that what might be done better and what adjustments we would see for ourselves. It's an example of why. A senator, of course, runs here, as the story shows, to some extent striking. We've been very happy to talk about being all diseased. We too are all fire - control systems, and the legislation does not prevent us from fulfilling our role in being all fire control. I think that's what I need to be guided. I don't always think that it takes some super-cool shots to make changes. Rather, simple adjustments are only good for that. This query is moving, and it is entering this job. I will get the discussions that have been conducted here directly into the current job. There will be action, and hopefully this will bring its way into the work. Other than that, I thank you. A senator for filming the case here. I was reviewing it, and I think it's the first time I've been involved in a discussion about fire control at the Council, as strange as it is right now. Based on how many subjects we address in this hall, I don't recall having participated earlier in a discussion about burning prevention. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's good too, and I wish. Congratulations to a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u63	Mr. President. Although this is not a good thing, the last few months have shown us that Icelandic society's adaptability is limited. Every workplace in the United States has turned down its work in the past few months, and such factors as those of many people who thought to be a distant dream have simply been put in place to ensure domesticisation of institutions and businesses throughout the country. This relates to the question presented here and is actually twofold: On one hand, I ask the highest. Environment and resource minister to state climate policy and rural society in accordance with Article 5. c Climate law, no matter how many government institutions, government companies in the majority of state's tenures, and rural areas have set up such a policy and how to pursue those who have not done so. The second part of the inquiry then turns to what we may have opened our eyes more clearly on Covid, the possibility of increasing the share of telecommunications, and making it part of a job, e.g. in government, government counsel and government committees and that much of the work is done at telecommunications. This would reduce unnecessary travel, e.g. Committee people, between parts of the country. This would make it easier for people all over the country to take part in government work. If we only look at the capital area, where most of the population lives and works, we could, by interlocking into the climate policy of public citizens that part of the workers would work part month away from home to job, to achieve positive climate impacts as well as to make changes so that they would also be a comfort and convenience for the staff. I'd like to ask the Minister about this, if they're being directed to the public institutions to weave experience in the past few months into the course to be working anyway. In fact, it is not in the written part of the inquiry, but I would like to also ask about international travel because there is something that must be revised in the near future when it becomes clear that a large part of the worldwide work called between countries can have some routines, even though people may not always be able to meet in the same space. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u64	The President reminds me of why. A senator at the deadline, that's three minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u65	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator is eager for this good inquiry, and it is both fun and good to have a discussion on this aspect of climate, for it is of enormous importance that public institutions and companies in the majority of the state, as well as rural communities, set a good example in climate matters. The EEA has the law under the supervision of government institutions, the majority of the state and rural organizations that take place in climate policy and the Agency has published instructions on how to do this on their website. During the past summer, the EEA set up a review group consisting of six government institutions and companies in the majority of the state's property with the objective of helping partners in the project and being reimbursed. All these people have now developed climate policy or are very far along. Some more are on the final meters, but the exact number is not available. The EEA has encouraged citizens to begin immediately to shape climate policy and set the goals and measures needed to follow policy. A decision has been made that each institution will agree and introduce its policy no later than 2021 at the end of the year and that its organisations will be published on the website. Such a site has been installed. How are these matters being pressed? First, I want to remind you that the Council's Council's climate policy was adopted in the United States on April 9, 2018, whereby the Council set the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, achieving non-carbon and testing new methods of operation that reduce carbon dioxide emissions. The Ministry of Presidency was originally entrusted with the implementation of policy within the Council, but responsibility for its implementation has now been moved to the Ministry of Environment and Resources. This may give us some information about how to approach such policies. The Environmental and Resource Ministry has formally consulted all the Ministry that they reduce their obligation to climatic policies and encourage them to implement Green Management Steps. The same will be done in financing letters to the institutions of the State, which highlight government management in 2021. According to the Management Board's climate policy programme, all Member States should have completed the green process by June 1, 2021. The obligation of climate policy development has been combined with the green steps so that those initiating the project are at the same time working on climate policy development. There's a lot of convergence here. In terms of rural development, the Union of Iceland received grants from the Environment and Resource Ministry based on climate Action Programme in the past summer to develop the toolbox for rural society to facilitate their work on climate policy. The tool box is a home page that will include guidance on climate policy development, the operating bank that is capable of the inspiration of rural society, emissions sector, and other educational materials on climate. It is estimated that the project will be completed in May 2021. The EEA is working closely with the Union on the project and in its operating group. Only to these questions would it be appropriate to direct the institutions of the State to give people greater opportunities for long - term work. Then I'd like to say, with increased technology, telecommunications development and training and training on such equipment, of course, the opportunities to increase economic efficiency, efficiency and goods in public management are increasing. I also believe that increasing digital development will create an opportunity for flexible positions of jobs and projects. It should be noted that the Microsoft Treaty facilitated, e.g. the work of employees and all communication in the meeting boundaries, which were key to maintaining public service and activity. The government's environmental and human resources administration is now working on national guidelines for the long-term work of employees, which will provide more clear guidance and basis for the long-term work and the flexibility it can follow, but it is clear that climate policy and public reform are very compatible. I would also like to mention that the Management Board's climate policy aims to reduce emissions and display and reverse them. reduction in the number of flights, as usual. A senator came in here with emphasis on telecommunications and a change in work ethic. There are two actions to achieve that goal. One is to develop good telecommunication tools and ensure that employees receive the necessary training and training in its use and that the Ministry places higher targets for telecommunications, including ... witha change of plans. The climate policy does not have a special procedure for the staff's long-term work, but the board's management policy creates flexibility in order for workers to be able to carry out their assignments from home. I see an opportunity, however, to update climate policy so that it is more likely to improve the work of the staff. It's not supposed to be too complicated and it could probably be possible to come. into transport contracts. So I agree with what. A senator here is a great opportunity that I think we can do even better than we've been doing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u66	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answers. I just want to steal here to discuss issues that are not directly related to climate but that are still a certain manifestation. Today, we experience one of those heartbreaking winter days. It's cold, it's bright, it's calm. It's a beautiful weather and it's good to be outside. The frost bites the cheeks, and we all get a little happier. But then there's a grey day in Reykjavík because of a traffic jam. For example, the children at the school of Eelphtft, Safammi, was required to attend the school in Safammiri. being more and less inside today than playing out in this great weather. The only advice the city has is to encourage people to adjust the use of their private car to reduce particulate pollution. Even so, despite the fact that we are in the middle of a pandemic, much of the population's quietness, hovers over the health limit. I would like to ask a minister if he would not consider creating some kind of system, much like subtracting the telecommunication into public climate policy, where the State links the grey days here in the capital area directly to institutions, so when there is a problem, a certain part of the public workers work in telecommunications. Then, in effect, we stop to some part of the fleet here in the capital area so that we do not have to compromise the children who have the right to play in wholesome air.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u67	V.E.G. President. Hv. A member of the United States comes on something very important and has air quality to do, which is, in fact, a subject that is extremely many cities around the world are dealing with and directly with the climate. When faced with climate problems, this too is often done in terms of air quality. It's based on an air quality strategy set up by the Environment and Resource Ministry a few years ago. That's where communities actually play a very important role, like what they do. A senator came in. If I recall this correctly, there are some legal sources in the community to take action, to try to ensure that a part of the population is at home for conditions like this. But here I'm asked how I feel about creating a system that could put these two together, i.e. that a part of a climate policy in institutions could be linked to such gray days. I've heard a dumber idea than that, and there's something to look at. Thus, the good news would again and again be preached by means of a good example. I just want to introduce to you what we were discussing earlier on official policy. I think, overall, it is the task that we carried together last year to set up laws, in a very good way. This has been run in a test phase so that guidance is practical and practitiony and that it promotes ambition. I have high hopes that as soon as the year 2019, we will be successful, and the government will thus show this the necessary example.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u68	V.E.G. President. On June 20, 2018, a proposal was adopted here for a synopsis on the definition of resource that the person listed here was 1. The interpretation proposal reads: The Council concludes to hide the Environment and Resource Minister from resource rights, environmental rights and environmental rights in order to create a bill to define what is considered to be a resource in this country and what Iceland's resources are. The bill will be submitted to the 150th legislature. That's exactly what's going on here. My questions to the minister are as follows: What is the situation in working on the bill in a law that defines what is considered to be under resources, as I was reading? When will Ministers submit the bill to the General? Then another question came to my mind when I was walking here to the platform: Do the minister agree with what the proposal says, such as in his heart? The concept of a resource is wide and includes many aspects of society. It is thought that all aspects of nature, earth, life, water, sunlight, and air can be considered to be natural resources. Resources can be defined as national property, such as fish stocks. However, the government's involvement includes many resources other than those directly considered national property. The community itself has taken steps to help protect important aspects of the environment, such as the purity of the atmosphere, and set rules on the use of animal strains and other aspects of the environment. Natural resources can be said to be a direct part of consumption, e.g. The outdoors and hunting grounds for wild animals. The resources that are not considered to be natural resources are the nature of the problem, for example. mangroves, knowledge systems, databases, and other similar tasks created by humans. This synonym is covered in the stitches, and it also introduces the potential payment of natural resources on the land. This is actually true of the fishing resource, but most of the other resources do not. In my second talk of this discussion, I will come in more readily.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u69	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for this excellent inquiry. Icelandic society builds largely on natural resources and on their use. Of course, their importance, whether it is unique in the context of tourism, marine life for fishing, pure drinking water for use, or earth heat for house warming, is unequivocal. The natural resources of the country are diverse and the European economy, which is largely based on their usefulness, is subject to sustainable use. It is important that knowledge of the status of natural resources and nature at any given time and that it is organized to ensure their sustainable use. The natural resources of the country are already discussed in many kinds of legislation, as well as many government institutions are responsible for different aspects of research, monitoring and the administration of natural resources. International efforts have been made in methodology in the integrated summary of information on the status of natural resources of nations in recent years and have included is published a guide methodology for the United Nations and institutions, such as OECD and the World Bank. Maintaining uniform information on the status of natural resources contributes to responsible and better informed decision making. This has been the result of a methodology called natural resources accounting, which includes planned registration of natural resources that are available to the countries at any given time. What is considered a natural resource in a single period of time can evolve and change, including with progress in technology and knowledge. What has been done to cooperate with this controversy? We in the Ministry have been working on guidance on how to define the natural resources of the country and organize them in an organized way, including in view of available work from previous years, such as resource policy committees since 2000. Then we have also looked to international models on how to define the natural resources of our country. This work is about making suggestions for methodology and a consistent overview of the natural resources of the country and how it develops. At the same time, this work can be a foundation for further work on the possible design of natural resources accounting in the country, which is acceptable. In addition, an overview of the national standards for sustainable use of natural resources and the implementation of sustainable resource resources has been developed in policies, laws and regulations. Increased and improved understanding of the status and nature of natural resources supports the basis and accordance with various political issues involved in natural resource use, such as the implementation of rights, agreements for use, payment and taxes. So I draw this together, the work that has been done in the Environment and Resource Ministry has been centered on the following factors that have been identified and brought together and are being organized on the outside on natural resources: 1st A box on the definition of the natural resources of the country, their nature and status. 2. The proposal to organize the natural resources of the country. 3. The laws and rules concerning natural resources apply as well as the analyses of existing legislation. 4. Sustainable use of natural resources, including the criteria for it and the analysis of how this is introduced in relevant legislation. 5. Research on whether natural resources will be installed. This could become a part of economic and national balance, as the United Nations operates in many parts of the world and leads to the United Nations. However, our work at the Environment and Resource Ministry has not yet reached the site of specific handling of legislation, end of the need to perform preparatory work which requires the definition of resources and to identify them. This, in turn, will be an essential basis for continuing to make decisions. It would probably be nice to introduce this kind of work that is available in the Ministry for which it is now available. The Allied Environmental and Transport Committee, she wishes it. However, the setting of specific legislation on the definition of resource needs to be carefully examined by me in the context of other existing legislation and the work of it. There is, of course, the preparation of laws with specific procedures, and I think it is my option to present a green book with proposals based on the results of our work that might be presented in government consultations. A report on the work done in the Ministry would also be considered for the council. This, on the basis of which a decision will then be made as to what might be made either on existing legislation or on new legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u70	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for his passage and the answers he had on this table. I hope he has a bill spoken of in the Senate resolution that was adopted last summer at the council. The minister talked about self-sustaining. In this regard, there must be better results if there is a price available to pay for the natural resource when it has obtained the necessary work. Similarly, the Minister referred to natural resources accounting, which is a rather beautiful word and would be very understandable to have it recorded. I'd like to mention a second suggestion on the program, hopefully very soon, and go to the highest level. Secretary of finance. It is, in fact, an extension of this, since the General concluded to hide financial and economic secretarys to order, firstly, a group of workers asking whether to reserve the resource use fees and the resources, in another place, he proposes a proposal for the pressures of resource costs that could go on with all resources and explain the costs and weaknesses of their methods and meet information on how resource use is used in neighboring countries that we compare to. After that, I want to thank you for the time taken on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u71	V.E.G. President. What we are discussing here and is the basis for the inquiry is a natural very interesting and important subject. It may be easy to work on the definitions of the natural resources of the country, although it is not established by specific legislation. It may be the work we've started, starting with specifying what they are, e.g. what I mentioned earlier about the natural resources accounting, which might be very interesting. I hear we're what we're talking about. A senator agrees that it might be wise to examine it further. Iceland's economist already collects a number of products and publishes on natural resources, such as on environmental issues, so there is also information to be considered. But I appreciate it. A senator for this discussion, and I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to discuss it with you. Environmental and Transport Committee. Even I'd love to hear it. A senator later sees how he would like to present a green book on this matter or even a report to the council. I'd like us to take a conversation about it at some point.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u72	V.E.G. President. The subject of an apartment loan fund, now known as IL Fund, has recently been transferred to the highest authority. The minister of finance, so this inquiry focuses on him. The request is the worst of all real estate loans available to the state. A group of people who have taken this misfortune is actually imprisoned in their houses, unable to sell their houses or houses with these loans of rebuke. And then there's only two things: stay in the house or pay off the loan and pay the very expensive price of paying off the loan. This is most unfair, Mr. President. I wondered, " Did these loans at the time stand against an equal rule because there is a distinct group of people involved in this vast population? ' That's why I've asked the highest. Minister of how many active loans an IL loan fund, now IL Fund, carries payments, what time such loans were available, how much money are still in value, and whether a minister intends to use his terms for changing his terms so that it will be more favorable for the loans of the above loans to pay them up. Mr. President. This is a fair matter. I'm going to specify here one example of a man I know who had borrowed in 2010, something like that, and the 12 million he borrowed were 20, as if he wanted to borrow in secret. Let us see if these loans are not just inflatable, they are growing 5.1%. In this case, these 12 million had grown to 20 million, and he was forced to move out of the house. He had to pay 3,000,000 to get rid of this loan that had become 20 million. This is so unfair, Mr. President, that I'm appealing to whether it's the highest. Ministers don't want to promote terms of change in terms of terms. The distinct group of people in this miserable situation cannot take advantage of the loans now offered. They were, when I last saw, the most favorable, perhaps brought around or below 1% interest as well as insurance. But to gain that kind of growth, you have to pay the super-price, this payment. Therefore, I would like to hear from a minister, whether he wants to or intends to change this - I know that a debtor can change his terms - or he intends to resort to this change. I want very clear answers about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u73	A respectable president. How sad that is in many ways! A senator recording here. Right away. A senator describes the loans unfairly, so I have to say that they are today, but they were not at the time they were taken. What I'd say to you is that maybe you best describe these loan classes, these species of loans, that this was a total failure in the housing system at the time. We have to remember what it was like. This was so that they believed that by turning out unrepencable loans, an apartment loan could be more beneficial than if it gave out an expedient loan. These advantages were chosen as creditors for the fund, as this is part of a review. These loans were given at the most favorable markets available at that time. Let us also remember that we are talking about an apartment loan fund, which, in effect, enjoys a kind of backtangible state funds, only taking the first mortgage in real estate, just the first mortgage. In the meantime, however, others have come far more favourable than those loans. This, of course, should have been arranged when they were building these loans, that people in the future might want to get out of it. They didn't. They didn't see it coming. That's why this problem has come up. Before my time is out, I'm going to go right into these specific questions. It's asked how many loans we've got at the IL fund we've now started, which took over these consumer loans of the Substitute Bank. An effective loan of payment was 4,89 in June. These loans were given from 2005◯2013. The combined pay without payment is 58.3 billion. This year will be the end of June. Fifty-eight.3 billion are combined at the end of June. The question is, will I apply myself for a change of terms so that it will be more beneficial for a creditor to pay off his loans and enjoy a better dresser somewhere else? I have to say, the unrequired payment is over 3.8 billion. But the total budget of what has already been collected, e.g. in this example. A senator here traced in a speech chair, from an individual business venture, i.e. The total amount of money that collects payment is 4.5 billion. If we were to cut down the bill, there are many issues of opinion. What precedent would it have, e.g. because of those who have already freed themselves from this by paying the price? If we were to assume that this too would fall upon the treasure of the Kingdom, we would be talking about an eight billion operation. I haven't had this for a special look. I just come back to notice that the borrowers who chose this option chose at the time of the most favorable loans available. If you look especially at the waxes, you can say that this payment was far more burdensome than was provided at that time. Finally, I need to draw attention to what I traced at the outset, and they are not ready to let the camp loans turn around and pay off the loans without any kind of punishment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u74	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for this answer. I'm not particularly pleased with that, but of course I understand what the minister was going over, that at the time it had been favorable and all that. On the part of a minister, it is perfectly clear that he made a mistake by offering these loans with payment. Now I think that one of the roles of politicians is to correct mistakes that have been made, I don't talk about when they go down with that weight on a distinct group of people who, in good faith, borrowed it at their time. Before that, loans were made at an apartment loan fund without payment, with a fixed 5% interest rate. In the light of history, when you can look back, it's natural, too, perfect basics. Of course, I had realized in advance that correcting this would cost a wealth of government money. The point is, though, that we are now in grave danger, since people may lose their possessions again, as they did after the collapse. Someone who was excited about the loss of their apartments or houses after a crash is beginning to blow off. I can't think to the end that we're going to repeat that game, Mr. President, that people are going to disappear from their possessions, including Possessions like these, where people are practically walled, so that some others can come and pick up the loaves and benefit from the calamity of those who lose their real estate. That is why I propose to a minister that he take it for a material consideration and a truly deep opinion that the terms of these loans will be adjusted, although it will cost 8 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2020-11-18-22.u75	A respectable president. I can say with what. A senator that, in reality, it is an amazing situation that our public loan agency, the camp loan fund at its time, which only lends on the first mortgage, actually holds the state behind him, has given out loans that people now strive to get rid of so that they can get out of the free market and get an acceptable vote. This teaches us much lessons. The biggest mistake in this matter is in my mind that the camp loan fund was to publish an unexpensive letter, that he had to go so far as to pay the pensions really because they are the main member of the Subcommittee in all of this, to offer unexplored bonds, and this firm term for this long. All of this was done in behalf of the clients of the camp loan fund in the belief that this would bring them the best financing, and it certainly was just for a short time while the loans were being given and the growing environment at that time. Yet, they may not have believed that the days would come in the future that we now see, that interest would turn short. We have this discussion exactly when a new record is introduced into the banks of the Federal Republic of Nations. Never has the growth of the Federal Bank been lower than at the time of this discussion, 0.75%.
